ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. I'm about to proceed with the 10th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Dr. Andreja Črnak Meglič, Victory Jelinčič Plmeniti, Ljubo Germič, Bogdan Barovic, Milenko Ziherl, mag. Franc Žnidaršič, Tone Anderlich, Roberto Battelli and Matjaž Han from 13.30 p.m. I welcome everyone here. We're moving on to one. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - QUESTIONS FROM THE MISSIONS AND THE CONCERNERS. Under this item, ministers and ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government will answer questions raised by Members and Members. The order of business shall be laid down on the basis of an agreement with the Heads of the groups of Members and in accordance with Article 244(2), Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. Each Member shall have three minutes to ask the question. Ministers and ministers shall answer the question within a maximum of five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers or ministers, they all have five minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be given by the Member within two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of 3 minutes. The Member who has asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister, Minister or Secretary-General of the Government. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the Minister, Minister or Secretary-General of the Government must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. On this point, the following Minister and Minister apologized today: Katarina Kresal - Minister of the Interior, Aleš Zalar - Minister of Justice and Gregor Golobič - Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology Development. We are moving on to the answers to the questions raised at the 6th, 7th, 8th and 9th meetings of the National Assembly. Procedurally, Mr. Tanko. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would suggest that the answers to questions under order numbers 1, 2 and 3 listed here be moved to the next meeting in accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. As you know, the answers to the questions raised at the 6th and 8th meetings are 18 May and 13 July. Since then, the Minister for Foreign Affairs has been absent. At this meeting, I proposed that the Minister who was present at this meeting respond on Monday, but this was not possible, and today these two Members are absent. And given that they do not have the opportunity to make a request for a supplementary question below, I propose that this should then be moved to the next meeting, just these three questions, it is said, the question of Milenk Ziherl and two questions of Mir Petk.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u3	That's question one, two, and four.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u4	One, two, and four.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u5	One, two, four. Of course, I think we can accommodate this proposal and the Minister will answer these three questions by two Members, Mr Ziherl and Mr Petk, at the next meeting. I think we have a duty to do this, considering they've been waiting for a while. So, again, Foreign Minister Samuel Žbogar will answer the question of Milenk Ziherl and the questions of Mira Petka at the next meeting. The Minister of Foreign Affairs will first answer France Kek's question regarding the establishment of a gas terminal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u6	Thank you very much, President. Hello, Members! The question of the June month of Mr Kek is the question of gas terminals and the activities of Slovenian diplomacy in this regard. I can ensure that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has been actively monitoring developments on the Italian side since the very beginning of this problem, that the diplomatic network has actively engaged in research into [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u7	May I have peace in the hall?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u8	Since this problem occurred, we have had more than 20 contacts and discussions on this topic, mainly in Rome, as well as in Trieste through the Consulate General. You know that so far, these interventions, including those of the Minister of the Environment in contact with his colleague in both oral and written, have not stopped the process on the Italian side. A meeting of the Coordination Committee of the two governments, led by two foreign ministers, was announced in September. The Coordinating Committee was moved to the Italian side and is now called for November 9th in Ljubljana, so we will meet on November 9th. In addition to my fellow Foreign Minister, the Minister of the Environment will also be present at this meeting. The Slovenian side will recall the Italian Minister's promise or a statement by the Italian Minister at the previous meeting of the Coordination Committee, where he said that Italy would not take such a decision without the consent of the Slovenian side. There is no such agreement on the Slovenian side, the Slovenian side requested further clarifications, additional technical documentation. We got some clarifications, some paperwork came in. As I understand the experts from the Ministry of the Environment, the answers are not yet satisfactory, nor do they address the concern on the Slovenian side that such a gas terminal will have cross-border effects. Thus, we are preparing for the Convention Committee, where we will reopen this issue, where we will request all the documentation, at the same time draw attention to these cross-border effects, we also draw attention to the directive of the European Union, which would be violated by such a terminal or the setting up of such a terminal, while the Slovenian side is also preparing other options if the Italian side continues to establish or approve decisions to set up this terminal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Does he want a follow-up, Mr. Kek? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. Although the question is from June, things are becoming more and more relevant as we see them. If we had already had a reply from their Minister to take Slovenia's opinion, we are faced with the opinion of the Minister of Economy these days, who said that he already has enough vetoes within the country and is not interested in any reservations from neighbouring countries. So I think that, apart from the Ministry of Environment, the Interdepartmental Commission, the Foreign Ministry will have some work to do here.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Would you like some more? If necessary, Mr. Secretary? If it is not, if you consider it necessary to respond or comment, then you may or may not. It's not gonna be okay. What kind of microphone in the hall isn't on? Please try again.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u12	Yeah, now it's okay. I agree completely that this will not be easy, especially since the Italian government is calling for it to complete its processes and now all processes at the country level, where we hear them, we receive messages, especially publicly, about how they do not intend to talk to the Slovenian side. One expectation is that they will still talk to Slovenia, this is something that they have promised on the previous Convention Committee and which is likely to follow separately in some good neighbourly relations, because this terminal is purely on our border. The second is this directive, which is about assessing the impact of individual public and private projects on the environment of the European Union, which we believe is in direct breach of this project. That is, of course, how we would like to find a solution with the Italian government. On the other hand, the Slovenian side will also use all other procedures necessary to protect the interests of Slovenia or prevent the establishment of such a terminal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Minister Samuel Žbogar will answer Rudolph Petan's question regarding the temporary reintroduction of internal border controls, and I would point out that he has only two minutes and 43 seconds to answer in the first round. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u14	My colleague Katarina Kresal answered that question a long time ago and then explained the whole process. I would only point out that this regime, the provisional regime, was finally in force for 18 days from 28 June to 15 July and was in force at all borders of Italy. So those concerns that have arisen in Slovenia that this is an attempt to reintroduce the Schengen regime only with Slovenia and for a longer time, that this is also a political signal from the Italian side of Slovenia, can be noted with pleasure that this was not such that it was a temporary solution which the Italian side had used in accordance with the Schengen legislation for a concrete case of protection against any additional security risks at the edge of the G8 meeting in Trieste. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u15	Mr. Petan, would you like to complete the answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister! That's exactly what you just said. Actually, I didn't even make this up in the SDS, but we could read in the media that the mayor of Trieste protested and, I think, Devina. Thus, the Italian mayor - for one, I think it is the mayor - because they themselves found that only at the border with Slovenia had certain problems, at the border with Austria and - well, borders, but theoretically not in the area of transition with France. And that is exactly the problem and I do not understand why the representatives of the Slovenian state continue to tell me that it was at all borders, but if the two Italian mayors made themselves sure that this was only at the former Slovenian border. That's why I asked you this question. I just don't understand why no one in Slovenia can prove that we didn't figure it out in the SDS, not by myself, but by two Italian mayors. So I asked you a question, and once again I ask you the same question: Why Slovenia? Why didn't you check that it's not on the former border with Austria and France? And: Why didn’t you protest? We can't do anything else, we probably can't put the armor on the border if the Italian state does. But I would like to know why you did not inform yourself, as an additional question, that at the other two, such as the borders with Austria and France, this was not by the Italian State. That's what I'd like an answer to. Whether it's complementary or additional or even one-off - I don't care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u17	Let's say it's a supplement, a request or a wish to complement the Minister's response. Minister, would you like to respond? You have a minute and 13 seconds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u18	The temporary introduction of the Schengen regime at the borders was allowed and Italy was not the right to do so. There are a lot of countries that have already done this in the past because of football championships or other events. France twenty-four times, Spain thirteen times, Iceland five times, Finland five times and so on. Thus, this is not some measure which would be an exceptional measure which Italy would recall, but is an option which is possible under the Schengen Agreement and which is a temporary option. The Italian side introduced this temporary regime due to the meeting of the G8 June month and, according to our information, it did not introduce it selectively only at the Slovenian border, but was introduced at all borders.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Minister of Foreign Affairs Samuel Žbogar will answer the question of Srečko Friends regarding the rent costs for the diplomatic-consular representative of the Republic of Slovenia abroad. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u20	The issue concerns the costs of the foreign ministry by renting premises, as well as the rental of residences and apartments of its diplomats abroad. At the outset, I would like to point out that we are certainly acting rationally and also in line with government austerity measures. But I would be specific because the question was concrete. Slovenia or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs currently employs 45 business premises for diplomatic missions and two additional business premises in Banja Luka and in Paris for the purposes of UNESCO. It also rents 42 residences for heads of DKP representations and 207 apartments for employees at the offices. Due to the rationalisation of the work, we are bringing together two representatives, physically, this is, the Embassy in Brussels we are moving to the Permanent Representation of the European Union and the Embassy in Vienna and we are also physically joining the OSCE mission at the same location. In the past year or 2008 we spent €10 million on rent and slightly less than €7 million in January - August of this year. The Ministry has some real estate purchases planned for the coming years, and we will do so in accordance with the financial possibilities and available funds. We are also discussing the possibility of a long-term lease that will later turn into ownership. This is an option that has not yet been used in our network. We currently have a residence in New York, Budapest, Brussels, Trieste. Business premises are purchased in Paris, Budapest, Zagreb, Brussels, Sarajevo. We also have an apartment in Paris, which we will now turn into a temporary representation room at the OECD. Success-based real estate: so far we've only got one real estate, which is in Washington, where there are business premises, residences and also one apartment. I hope that's how I responded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u21	Would you like to complete your answer, Mr. Friend? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Respectable ministers. When asking the question, I was very clear why instead of expensive rents, which are too often too large. This is a constant practice that these rents are truly excessively large. You yourself mentioned that in 2008 you spent 10 million euros on these rents. That's not a bit of money. Why do you simply not use these rents to pay credits that would be hired to provide the necessary administrative and technical conditions for the work of our diplomats? We know that this would be a more meaningful investment in the longer term and that it would in some way be very welcome at a time when savings here and there are also benefits in the integrated budget. On this item, we counted if we can tell you that it would save up to a third of the funds. Three million could be saved last year for 2008 if we had contracts for the purchase of real estate for the existing capacity. After the loans have been paid, these apartments would be from the Republic of Slovenia. That's how we pay the rent, and they'll never be ours. I also asked you: When will you conclude purchase contracts for these capacities you have? And: Is it true that within individual diplomatic-consular representations there is abuse, that the tenants somehow return to someone in the envelope? That's what we've got. Have you ever introduced control over the legal and prudent use of these funds? That's what I was asking you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Please, Minister Zbogar.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u24	We've got surveillance. The supervision shall be carried out by the Ministry of Internal Audit, which shall also regularly visit the Representations and carry out a financial audit. According to the new report, we also have a special inspector, a diplomatic one who visits the embassies and examines, oversees all areas, including financial, and the issue of the property you are mentioning. So that we control the consumption. I agree with you that it would be appropriate for this service to have more real estate after 20 years. We have spent a lot of money on rent in these years, and it would probably be more reasonable to make more systematic purchases or long-term leases. So far, it has not been possible to rent long-term because this has been interpreted as a sovereign debt and therefore there has been no agreement in the past within the government to purchase real estate with long-term purchases. This year, when we adopted the first set of measures, one of these is the rationalisation of the network and the incentive for the ministry to try to buy real estate with long-term leases. We are now very specifically talking to some of the representations, where it is possible to go to these long-term rentals. Our ambassadors have been given the responsibility to talk, and where this can be realized, we will also go into it. However, in the budget, unfortunately, not this year or in the coming year, we do not have specific investment resources; in the course of the negotiations, these funds have disappeared. By buying real estate with money, there will be no possibility of that in the next two years. However, this option will be with long-term rents and I hope that this will lead to a purchase at just a few performances. I agree that in 20 years we could have more than the 10 properties we have abroad.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Friend, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. President. There is no way I can be satisfied with my answer, Mr. Secretary of State. You know that what you said is not enough given the irresponsibility of such a "shamp" spending public finances. Therefore, I propose, in accordance with Article 246, paragraph 2, that the National Assembly conduct a broader debate on this, because the end is a very uncontrolled use of budgetary resources, for abuse in this area, we will tell you where, if your inspections have not been established. I expect from you - we have already given initiatives three times, written - that you will, of course, use these rents to pay off the credits paid off and that these properties will be purchased in the future. I will not count how much money we have thrown through an open window, and, of course, I will not blame anyone now, it can be all right, but with such unreasonable spending of money, of course, with such high rents I would not escape, how much a square meter of rented space costs for a residence, because the price from place to place is very different, but according to the price of real estate in a particular country, but I can certainly say that these are very high amounts. With such high amounts and such unsuspected consumption, such poor control and unauthorized irregularities are also a theft - I will not - of course - a suspicion of abuse, but this requires a slightly more serious approach by the minister responsible for the use of these funds. So we expect you to at least end your term of office for half of these apartments, 270 of them, and for half of these residences, 42 of them, you have entered into sales contracts, if you have actually sworn with such seriousness - I believe you - to work for the good of the people and this country. But we can't let millions throw themselves through an open window, which is also irresponsible on your part.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u27	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Mr Sreč Krijat to hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of Foreign Minister Samuel Žbogar to his question of the Member of Parliament, the National Assembly will decide today, 10 minutes after the end of item 1 of the agenda. Minister of Environment and Space Karel Erjavec will answer the question first of all Dark Meniha regarding state aid in dealing with the consequences of natural disasters. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u28	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u29	Mr. Menich, you've already asked the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u30	Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u31	You've already set up at the previous session, he's got it, and he's gonna be the secretary in charge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u32	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u33	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u34	Thank you. Your Honor, the President. Nice greetings to all Members of Parliament, fellow ministers. In opening, I must explain that the Ministry of the Environment does not have a commission of its own to assess the damage caused by natural disasters, but that we have a state commission to assess the damage caused by the consequences of natural disasters, which are inter-resorted. This is said, with the representative of the Ministry of Environment and Space, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Agriculture, Culture, Defence and the Ministry of Transport. In addition to the State Commission, regional commissions are also under the responsibility of the Ministry of Defence. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall decide on the use of resources to remedy the consequences of accidents on the basis of an assessment of direct damage on matters and of a proposal to remedy the consequences of natural disasters on the matters submitted to the Government by the Ministry responsible for the protection against natural disasters, namely the Ministry of Defence. It is produced by the State Commission for the Evaluation of Damage in Natural and Other Disasters, which is established in accordance with the rules on protection against natural disasters. The government must take into account when deciding on the use of funds to remedy the consequences of disasters, which are more than 0.3 per cent of the planned revenue of the state budget, which is now EUR 6.6 million. If you look at the proposal for a new budget and the law on the implementation of the budget, this amount is slightly lower, i.e. 2.3 million euros will have to be exceeded in order to prepare a specific programme to remedy the consequences. It is true, however, that the programme to remedy the consequences of an individual accident falls within the competence of the Ministry of Environment and Space. As far as the decision on the use of these funds is concerned, this does not fall within the competence of the Ministry of the Environment, but falls within the competence of the Ministry of Finance, which proposes the relevant law, the law on the implementation of the budget. In the Ministry of Environment and Space, we estimate that certain systemic changes will also have to be made in the area of disaster management and, in particular, in these aspects, we believe that preventive action will need to be strengthened, in particular through appropriate spatial planning. We can see that some accidents are also a result of missed planning, where the potential dangers such as centuries of water have not been sufficiently taken into account, the plasmidity of the ground, not to mention all these possible causes of natural disasters. We also believe that insurance will need to be strengthened in this area, as we see that climate change, significant changes, is likely to increase these disasters and the damage is also increasing. It will probably be very difficult for all these disasters to provide only funds from the state budget, especially at a time when we are facing a difficult financial crisis. We therefore believe that certain systemic changes need to be made, in particular in terms of strengthening insurance, particularly when it comes to damage arising from private property. Here we see the possibility that the country, with appropriate subsidies, would promote insurance, which is the most appropriate way to remedy the consequences of damage, especially on private property and in particular the fact that climate change can make it clear that such natural disasters will also occur more frequently in the future than they have so far.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please, Mr. Menich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Minister, for a comprehensive response, but I might just say that there have been a lot of natural disasters this year. Some congregations have experienced even more than once, and the content of this question that I have asked you is very topical and important for the affected municipalities. I can tell you about our congregation - the State Commission has estimated the damage to EUR 900 000, which is far from the threshold of 2.6 million that we should reach. Then we sat down with the commission and calculated all the damage to the neighbouring municipalities that was achieved on that day. Yet, not all of these congregations have reached that threshold. I therefore advocate that this threshold should be lower so that we can take account of the state's aid. On this occasion, I must also commend the people from the Ministry of Environment and Space, Mr Vivod, and the geologists and Mr Bogotaj, who came immediately, on that day came to the "faces of the city" and helped us to advise on how and what to do an intervention. We have also been given 112 000 euros in aid, but no realisation has yet taken place. Maybe that's what I'd say. The Ministry of Environment and Space would be expected to advise us on what to do, perhaps to help us plan these plasmidity maps. We also listened to a nice lecture the other day, and there might be some help. Otherwise, at this threshold, I think I should lower myself. [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] Thank you very much. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Please respond. Minister Erjavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u38	I would like to thank the Member in particular for his compliments to the co-workers at the Ministry of the Environment and Mr Bogataj, who works at the Ministry of Defence. I fully agree with you that there are problems where the damage does not exceed €2.6 million, which is the basis then for the Ministry of the Environment to prepare a comprehensive route. I must say that I am also in a difficult situation when these natural disasters arise and when I see that the municipal budgets do not have enough resources to be able to perform the rehabilitation. That is why I also said that certain systemic changes will have to be made, especially because we see that these natural disasters are becoming more common. It is fortunate that a new municipal spatial plan is being adopted at this time. In this regard, I would like to say that we will extend the deadline by 18 months because this is a project that is extremely demanding. However, I must say that it is in these municipal spatial plans that we insist on not building where there are great opportunities for natural disasters to occur. And I must say that the mayors are now well aware of these dangers and have already begun to take all these dangers into account in their municipal spatial plans. It is true, however, that certain resources will have to be provided for certain analyses, in particular as regards water protection matters. We know we don't have a fully recorded condition here. But as for the reptiles and plasmidity of the terrain, I think we already have a fairly precise geological map, and we can pretty much safely tell which terrain is likely to have a beach. I think that by modernising these municipal spatial plans, there should be no more of these problems, but natural disasters, of course, also cause other damage, such as on agricultural land - droughts, floods, etc. However, the Ministry of Agriculture will also have to look at what measures are being taken to prevent this from happening here. We know it's a speech, I don't know, about the defense against the wheel with rockets, networks, etc. More attention will have to be paid to these issues. But it's true that it's all connected to financial resources.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u39	Thank you very much. You want procedural, Mr. Manny? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that again. Really, Mr. Secretary, thank you very much. You have given a rather comprehensive answer. However, I think that this threshold is too high for all congregations, and I think that wider consideration would be needed. Therefore, on the basis of Article 246(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the National Assembly decide to hold a broader debate at the next meeting on this high threshold which we cannot reach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u41	Thank you very much. On the proposal of Mr Dark Menich to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Mr Karl Erjavac to his question of the mission, the National Assembly will decide today, ten minutes after the end of the first item of the agenda. The Minister of Environment and Space Karl Erjavec will also answer Dr. Luke Juri's question regarding the limitation of light pollution.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. Thank you, too, Member for the question. It's a very important issue. I can say that Slovenia is taking steps here with other developed countries. It is true, however, that some more attention needs to be paid to better monitoring of the limits of light pollution in the environment. I must say that the environmental inspection is carrying out quite intensive activities related to the control of environmental light pollution. In accordance with the 2008 and 2009 work plans, a great deal of controls have been carried out. I can say that we find that the competent are largely in compliance with this Regulation. Where not, they also eliminate irregularities or inconsistencies with regard to the regulation of limit values for light pollution of the environment as quickly as possible. I can say that in this action, which was planned in the 2008 and 2009 work plans, the objective of the whole country was to simultaneously verify compliance with the bans and measures to reduce the emissions of light to the environment due to the operation of light sources causing light pollution. Initially, lighting operators were informed in writing of the adjustment deadlines for existing lighting lamps and also the lighting of advertising facilities because they also cause light pollution. In the second part of the action, which took place in March and April 2009, there was direct inspection of the managers of existing lighting, facade lighting, light beams and advertising panels. A total of 126 competent services in municipalities were notified by the Regulation and 68 inspections were carried out. In 19 cases we found irregularities and therefore the inspectors also issued appropriate administrative measures. The procedures where certain measures have been implemented are, of course, completed and some inspection procedures are still in progress. Infringements have also led to the initiation of the necessary criminal proceedings. Among other things, a fine of EUR 12 000 for a legal person and EUR 2 000 400 for a responsible person was imposed due to the use of the light beam, so I believe that these activities are going well. It's just a new kind of surveillance. We note from this first experience that certain amendments to the regulation will have to be made, in particular in terms of even greater efficiency, and some changes in the sense that the regulation will be more lifelike, because we also need to ensure that we do not impose too much burden on municipalities at once by establishing a regulation that provides that existing lighting is to be replaced immediately. We believe that we could wait until the end of life, in particular where existing lighting does not go beyond clearly certain standards, but it can be found that it is not fully in line with the standards set out in the Regulation. In particular, I would like to stress that we would no longer be strict and replace things that would be more appropriate for them to end their lives, but when they go to set up new ones, to actually respect the regulation as a whole. As far as Kopra is concerned, I hope you will give me an additional question and I will also tell you how things are going there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u43	Thank you. Dr. Yuri, in fact, you owe or are expected to complete the answer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u44	Of course I didn't mean to, but since the minister called me - it's not true, I was going to! Four supplementary questions, or one supplementary question with four points.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u45	Request to complete the answer, not new questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u46	Thank you, Chairman. Please, if you can complete your answer in the following points. You have announced changes to the regulation, and I would ask you whether you are also suggesting a change in the maximum value of light that can soar above the horizon that is now 0%? What exactly do you mean by allowing the end of life? Does this mean the end of the life span of a lamp or a lamp or a whole light installation, which can last for 10, 20 years? In this context, we can therefore expect public enlightenment to continue for as long as it is necessary to comply with this Regulation. For at this point, as I understand the regulation, public enlightenment should be harmonised where there are no specific conditions already laid down by the Regulation. With regard to the new enlightenment, Mr. Secretary-General, I'd like to ask you: Whether any action is taken there, and I also pass through the Municipality of Koper. Councillors in the Municipality of Koper note that the newly installed public lighting is also placed in such a way that it is clearly and eccentric in contravention of the regulation; for example, the ground lamps in vegetation at a place which is clearly not in conformity with the rules of this Regulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u47	If you'll excuse me, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u48	Thank you for complementing the question. As far as the changes are concerned, we will pay particular attention in particular to the monitoring of light pollution. We're gonna make this part stronger. Then we will re-examine the thresholds for lighting production facilities, business buildings and institutions and advertising facilities. On the question of when the lifetime ends - here is the idea of a light body, it's called a light bulb. What is meant here is what is unnecessary in order to change immediately so that we do not change, which is still acceptable to the environment, because we believe that this will cause too much costs for municipal budgets. This is where we're looking for a normal life solution. As far as Kopra is concerned, I must say that the inspection works there, that the finding process is not yet complete, so that we can collect further information. However, in some streets lighting has been restored, and we can see that some lamps are directed towards the sky by means of a luminous flux, which is contrary to the regulation. When this finding is concluded, appropriate measures or an appropriate decision will also be issued. But at this point, I don't have to predict what they'll be like. The fact is that the report shows that some new installed lamps are not installed in accordance with the Regulation. That's how it's gonna have to be done.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The Minister of Environment and Space Karl Erjavec will also answer Janez Ribič's question regarding the financing of water infrastructure from the Water Fund.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u50	Thank you, Member of Parliament, for the question. I have received a similar question from a Member on several occasions. What can I say? As far as maintenance is concerned, I can say that we have spent more resources in the last two years than in the last decade, but these resources are still too small, especially because there will be a need to ensure sustainable financing of maintenance works due to the increase in these climate changes, which also affect these watercourses. We see, for example, what happened in the Railways not to list all the cases in the Savina Valley, etc. This need for the construction of flood-stabilising facilities on newly launched storms and also older storms has been reflected in recent years as a great need, but I must conclude that there is always insufficient resources for this area. However, regardless, we are trying to ensure that where threats are greatest, these funds are provided. For example, the last case is the embankments on the Mura. You know, there was a big threat there, especially at a time when we know that the snow from the Alps will begin to melt and Mura will grow. This is particularly significant in November. And that there was a major flood threat for the inhabitants of the area and that, despite the lack of sufficient resources in the budget reserve, we have ensured 2.3 million euros that we have also made these embankments. You have also asked quite a few specific questions, and I will go straight ahead. You are asking if I can present in more detail the tasks of the State with regard to water regulation and the provision of a public service for the maintenance of second-order watercourses. This is regulated by the Water Act, which regulates water. The law requires the State or the competent ministry to organise a public service for the maintenance of water and coastal land, with the public service tasks laid down in the Regulations on the types and scope of the tasks of compulsory State economic services for water management. They shall carry out the public service on the basis of a regulation on concessions for the performance of compulsory public economic services in the field of water management. The selected operators, which carry out the tasks set out in the programme under the appropriations of the budget, shall be supervised by the Water Office of the Environment Agency. We know that these concessionaires also always lack the money from the state budget to be able to fully perform their tasks, especially because we know that this area has been very neglected for the past 20 years and has not been given enough attention. Local communities are competent to dispose of waste and other abandoned or discarded objects. Landowners are required to ensure the hive and the removal of overgrowth on shores, in particular in the coastal areas of the second order. In accordance with the Water Rights Act, water rights holders must be given the same guarantees of basketing and over-healing on shores. Furthermore, how many times a year regular maintenance works are performed on watercourses. These are carried out on the basis of available resources, where the most pressing problems, such as regular day-to-day supervision of the management of important facilities such as prisons, accumulations, and the ongoing maintenance of mechanical equipment and so on, are attempted through annual planning. Then a hive of high-water embankments once a year. Then you asked me who regularly controls the state of watercourses and how many times a year is implemented [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Monitoring of the situation shall be provided by a compulsory state economic service within its regular time and also by 24 hours on call. [[...]] I'd like to ask the MP, given that he's still [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u51	Minister, you can be sure that fellow Member Ribič will wish to complete the reply. Please, Mr. Fish. Can I help you? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u52	Good afternoon, Your Honor. Double Navy. Why? There says the Drava River, which has its tributaries, streams that flood at every great rainstorm, and then it is the sea. And why are they swimming? Because they're not maintained. Mr. Secretary, I am partially satisfied with the answers. However, I am concerned that it is not taking immediate action, so I say that the project of construction of high-water embankments between Maribor and Ptava on the left bank of Drava in the area of the municipality of Duplek has been delayed for decades and more. It is expected to start building in 2007 and is expected to start building in 2011. Your Honor, I'm informing you that the next major rainfall in this area will be a disaster. I ask you: Who will be responsible for the people of this area who are in constant danger and at risk? We experienced the last flood in August of this year, when one third of the village of Duplek was flooded by water streams or streams flowing into Drava’s stream, as floods, floods, streams, and the lack of maintenance of Drava’s water stream left no place to flow, and so it is flooding. This disaster will be when Drava floods again. I therefore demand that more resources be made available for the maintenance and cleaning of watercourses and that parts begin immediately. Dear Minister, I will not give up with my questions on this matter until the security of the population is ensured on the ground before the floods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Secretary, for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u54	Thank you very much. I will not answer all the questions, but I will now only answer the Highwater Reef project on the Drava River, because the previous questions are of a more general nature, but I see that the Member is particularly interested in a specific appropriate one. I can say that you will then ask me this question every month, because in this country we are also bound to certain procedures and construction cannot begin until a building permit is issued. A building permit may not be issued until adequate funds have been provided. You know that this project is also linked to drawing on cohesion, European funds, so that this decision will be issued somewhere in early 2010. Once this decision is issued, a building permit will be issued and then we can actually go with the realization of the high-water embankment on the Drava River on the Dorberg section to Upper Duplex, but nothing seems to be happening there. I can say that there were €560 000 in 2009 and €745 000 in 2009. In the period 2007 - 2009, 417 thousand euros and 184 million in the period 2000 - 2006. Which means that in this project, this part of the country is still heavily invested. It is true, however, that the project is included in the operational programme for the development of environmental and transport infrastructure for the period 2007-2013, which will provide co-financing from the Cohesion Fund and that the funds are planned to participate in both the 2010 budget and the 2011 budget. As I have said, the role of drawing on cohesion funds for this project will be prepared in early 2010. At that time a building permit will also be obtained, the delivery process will be carried out and construction will take place in 2011. There's no way out of this.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u55	Thank you very much. You want procedural, Mr. Fish? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u56	Thank you. I must say, I thank you for your affection. I hope something happens at least during this period. In fact, the Drava River has been flooding in this area for years. That's how these things go too slowly to solve this problem. This area is not regulated, the means of maintenance are insufficient, the consequences are increasing, people and their properties are at risk. I therefore request that a broader debate be held under Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure in the National Assembly, desiring to give greater emphasis to this problem and to provide more means of maintenance and approaches to greater control over water supply operators. And to talk about a hedge fund. So far, the citizens living there have been warned and warned that Drava and its tributaries should be washed clean. Now we're going to demand it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Following the Rules of Procedure, of course, on the proposal by Mr Janez Ribič to hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of the Environment and Space, Karl Erjavac, to his question of the mission, the National Assembly will decide today, ten minutes after the end of the 1st item of the agenda. Minister of Health Borut Miklavčič will answer the question of mag. Juliane Bizjak Mlakar on measures to improve the rationalisation of public health resources. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u58	Dear President, honourable Members! For all health and insurance developments, the public is extremely sensitive and closely monitors the work of healthcare providers of the Ministry of Health and, of course, of the Health Insurance Office. This can, on its own, have its own good side, because, above all, it is possible to seek answers in the dialogue and cooperation of stakeholders, to find answers to a series of very difficult and complex dilemmas, which are daily similar to those of us, everywhere in the world, appear in the healthcare system. This is positive as long as such an initiative is geared towards finding better ways and solutions to manage problems, but we need to know that there are also very different interests and proposals in the public eye about the same issue, which makes it difficult to follow all of them. Some responses from the public to individual working materials of the Ministry of Health, the Institute, regarding the reform of the whole area of healthcare and insurance are quite contradictory. When some talk about the intended reduction and deprivation of the rights of insured persons, others require further exacerbation of the conditions for their realization, more personal responsibility for health and more private initiatives. This is a brief summary of the debate on the proposal for a new Health Action Act, which has so far been taking place in our midst. The Ministry of Health will put the final text of the law into the procedure and debate within the next fourteen days, and I think that the State Assembly will be the final body to decide on the proposed amendments that will supplement or amend this text. In this climate, as we now have in Slovenia, there is a general awareness of the necessity of changes in healthcare and insurance. The Ministry of Health has drawn up a new law and new guidelines. It has been a long debate on these issues and I am counting on it to be concluded in the National Assembly. We can be united that over time in the field of healthcare and insurance has accumulated many areas that need to be changed. We need to know that there have been no serious changes in the healthcare system in the whole area for the past 17 years, and that is why only now are the weaknesses of inadequate management of the system in the past increasingly evident. This could be said for almost all the areas highlighted by Mrs Biszakov in her question, such as: evaluation of health workers' duties, poor organisation of health activities, underinvestment of employers in the health of employees and so on. As these matters have long been known, the Government's decision to reform the health system is one of its central and priority tasks. The Ministry of Health shall pay the highest attention to all these issues in the preparation of new laws. However, all are of such a nature that they require fundamental changes to the system and related legislation. It is not about questions that could be resolved or amended by decisions, or by ministerial orders, or by other methods of dictatorship from above, that is not the case. Many weaknesses in the functioning of the health public, its organisation, management and management are based on applicable laws or collective agreements adopted between the social partners. Therefore, they can only be removed by amending these documents in the same procedure as they were adopted. Proposals for different regulation of all these issues are aimed at changing the situation and achieving greater rationalisation, but require the consent of the same social partners that have adopted this earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Mrs. Mlakar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for your answer. Why do I ask you that? Most of the time on call is not effective, which means that most of the time on call should wait for example or rest. However, even those who work hard for 600 euros or less for a month are paid out of medical bills for 16 hours on call during a week up to €628 gross, for a weekend on call up to €1100 gross and for a day on call between holidays up to €1480 gross. Where's the sense of ethics, moderation and honesty? With better organization of work, however, there could be fewer on-calls and doctors could work on shifts. As a result of flat-rate taxes and contributions for health services costs in the price of health services, the health department should be reduced by EUR 12 million per year instead of the actual implementation. From 1992 onwards, the Institute could have accounted for higher levels of contribution to employers who are threatening the health of employees and do not do so. The effectiveness of supervision and health security of the population would be increased if the professional supervision of health services were transferred to an independent institution. By implementing measures of rationalisation, the rights of people from public health resources could even be increased but not further reduced. Thank you very much in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Please respond, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u62	I think I answered the question. I myself can be bitter over the high prices and payments of duty, but we need to know that some doctors in these duty stations are saving lives and some are doing a little less work, but it was an agreement in the collective agreement. Procedures run for a change along the same path as they were adopted, and other solutions at this point cannot be seen. In our interviews with the Ministry, we have arranged with all the professional hospital directors to reduce the number of duty stations, because they are responsible for every case that happens. The Ministry cannot act and order professional directors to hospitals, what is professionally justified and what is not professionally justified. This is done, on-calls have decreased, but on-call payments - this is agreed. For all these issues, for all the dilemmas will be, I am counting in one month when there will be the possibility in the National Assembly of the Law on Health Activities that you will make specific comments and improvements to the text that will come to the parliamentary debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Minister of Transport Dr Patrick Vlačič will answer Dr Petra Verlic's question regarding the use of European means of road transport. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u64	Thank you, President. Dear Members. With regard to your issue of drawing on European funds, I would like to begin by stressing that the European Commission has not frozen European funds for the construction of motorway sections projects, but has suspended the procedure for the approval of a large project. This is a project for the construction of the Slivnica-Drazenci motorway section. I informed you of this and of the reasons for this at the 6th meeting of the National Assembly on 19 May 2009. With regard to the application for funding for the project of the construction of the Slovnica-Drazenci motorway section, the Ministry of Transport is the European Commission DG Regio 16. Seven. In its comments it received a draft decision on the allocation of appropriations. On the basis of the reply sent by the Ministry of Transport of 17. Seven. In 2009, DG Regio changed the status of the project to a decision. We have not received an official letter concerning the system of vignettes in Slovenia. With regard to European funds, I would like to inform you that we are from 30. Ten. 2008 when the European Commission notified us of the suspension of the approval procedure for the project under the two motorway projects under the 2007-2013 programming period, i.e. the financial perspectives, received a refund of almost €80 million. This is: for the Beltinci-Lendava motorway project, 38 million 206 thousand 768 thousand euros, representing 91.8% of all the funds we can use in this project. For the construction project of the Slivnica-Drazenci motorway, EUR 41 million 482 thousand 90, representing 47% of the funding granted. Finally, I would like to clarify that the Government has not changed the vignette system due to the freezing or only to the freezing of European funds, as stated in your question. The decision was taken on the basis of an official reminder addressed to the Republic of Slovenia by the European Commission in October 2008. With this formal reminder, the European Commission has acknowledged to the Republic of Slovenia the violation of Article 12 of the Treaty establishing the European Community, which prohibits any discrimination based on nationality. A further decision, the next reasoned opinion, would completely stop the payment of the European means of finalising the procedure. There has been no follow-up to the procedure, which is why there has been no reasoned opinion about the conduct of our government.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Dr. Peter Verlich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mr Minister, for this answer, but in spite of all of this - I would like to ask if you can further explain some things to me. In fact, from your performances so far, it has been considered necessary to change the vignette system, otherwise we will be without funds. You have now said this in the end, but in the initial reply I understand that the relevant Directorate is continuing the process of obtaining European funds for one section of the motorway. In fact, I am also asking for a supplement to the question because I have noticed in the media your statement that, somehow, the Commissioner has agreed informally that the vignette system as it is, with this price of vignettes and a one-day regime or a shorter regime, is appropriate and that there will be no more complications. In fact, I'd really like a clear answer now. I have a feeling, however, that the vignette system has been changed, that the main argument was precisely this, the freezing of European funds, and that this is always hanging over us. I don't think you told me that this threat remains. This threat remains, and so my question is: Has the Commission now decided to issue an official document to ensure that the vinite system is okay? In fact, I still say that changes should not be made.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u67	Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u68	As I said before, the European Commission has not yet issued an official document to put an end to the procedure against the Republic of Slovenia for the introduction or modification of tolling. There is no official decision. In an informal interview with the Commissioner, we found that the change was made in the right direction. Maybe one more time about the procedure itself. You know the procedure as well as I do, and you know that a reasoned opinion or an official reminder is followed by the following decision: this is a reasoned opinion. Since we have been communicating with the European Commission in the meantime and have taken decisions because we have assessed that the system is as discriminatory as it has been before and that it is not in accordance with European Union law, we have decided to change. However, the fact that the funds are not paid is due to the discriminatory nature of the system and the initiation of the procedure. So there are two reasons, if you want me to be very clear, why we decided to change. One is because we have estimated that the system, as before, would lose its six-year and annual vignette before the Court of Justice of the European Community. That was the first reason. However, the second reason was that if we did not change the system if we did not go into this change, where we are assessing that this is a discriminatory system, all the European funds on our motorway sections would be completely stopped at the point of getting a reasoned opinion, which would have happened in December or January, if we had not communicated with the European Commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Dr. Verlich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u70	Thank you very much. I would like this matter to be discussed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure at the next meeting of the National Assembly. By the way, I just want to justify it. It is this last of your answers that now strikes me that the payment of European funds for motorways and the mere alleged continuation of the procedure for the introduction of annual and semi-annual vineyards are somehow linked. However, I do not think that the Commission itself has these powers to bring these two issues together. I think the government should really act here. And these arguments, why we at first thought that we would lose, are of course - now I understand - the result of a decision probably, the government on the basis of your proposal. And I think and I'm sure there was no reason for that, because the only consequence we have right now is this, and that's what's going to happen in December, when we start buying annual vignettes, we also see that they're 73%. That's it. To pay more expensive wines, the only concrete consequence for those who use motorways more often is that we are Slovenian citizens. I think that is why it is right to talk about this issue here. Therefore, I propose this procedural decision to discuss this, because I think that someone - of course I also understand the Italian Commissioner - is legitimately still involved in the story, although the Commissioner, who should be European and should look here at the problem of introducing wines from the European point of view, I think he was acting like an Italian. I think the Slovenian government could act more decisively. I think we had a lot of arguments in our hands. Unfortunately, the result is that it would be right to at least clarify this issue in this National Assembly if we can’t fix things in return.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u71	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Mr Petr Verlic to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Mr Patrick Vlačič to his question of the delegation, the National Assembly will decide today, 10 minutes after the end of agenda 1st. Minister of the Interior Katarina Kresal will ask the question of mag. Radovana Žerja in relation to, in the notes, "Sanjski loan of Austrian banks" replied to the forthcoming meeting due to the absence. We are moving on to questions of Members and Members. I inform you that Rudolf Petan has announced an oral question to the Minister without a department responsible for the development and European affairs of Mag. Mr Gaspari, who informed the assembly in writing that he was not competent to answer that question. Mag. Mitja Gaspari also informed the assembly that he was not responsible for answering the question of Mr Bogovic, who addressed his oral question to two addressees. The Minister will not answer these questions for the same reason. However, Ambassadors Matevž Frangež and Guido Kres had previously withdrawn in writing their oral questions from the 10th meeting of the assembly, which was presented to the Minister without a portfolio responsible for development and European affairs or to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. We're moving on to questions. France Tsukati will ask the Minister of Health a question. Please, Mr. Cuckoo.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u72	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all, especially to Mr Miklavčič, Minister of Health! Well, before we consider the budget in the National Assembly and in the budget memorandum, we read that revenues from internal tax revenues and so on in Slovenia will be much lower than expenditure this year. In fact, if last year’s balance sheet was positive and the revenue from this title was higher by 129 million, this year’s expenditure will be higher, so that we will have two billion losses. Clearly, this also affects the health sector. As incomes go down, spending increases, one wonders how we will react or how we will deal with this financial crisis in the future. Something positive has come up last year and from those so-called profits, the surpluses of the Health Insurance Office will also cover this year's losses. But the problem is that the elements of health irritation are constantly increasing or present. We are constantly getting new materials, new diagnostic options, new therapeutic options, because the profession is developing and all this new is also significantly more expensive. Secondly, as I mentioned in the question, the age structure of the population is changing. If, in 1992, only 17% of the population over 60 years of age were independent, we now have 24% of the elderly. And by 2020, there will already be 31%, almost half a percent each year. Older people mean 6-8 times the financial burden for health care as, say, a 40-year-old or a 20-year-old. As a result, this burden is already 20 % higher this year than in 1992 with this title alone. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] So this problem, Mr. Minister - I may be small when I repeat it, but that is also your problem. [[...]] What awaits us is where are the systemic approaches to solving this issue?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Please, Minister Borut Miklavčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u74	Dear Dr. Tuck. I can't object to your allegations, your numbers and your data. These are the facts we face in the system. Dear Doctor, we have worked together many times in 2003 and 2006 to talk to each other when I was still in charge of the institution. The Institute was in those years, a doctor, practically in the country of a rare institution that created a reserve fund. When I left the office, 130 million euros remained in the reserve fund, while we settled all obligations. At the moment, the biggest problem is that the system of wage changes in the public sector as a system of change and as an inconsistent implementation of this system within health care has caused most of these funds to leave to cover the salaries of mainly nursing staff and doctors. We've intervened somewhere, and I'm not going to repeat what our intervention was like on Murski Sobota. We intervened in Isol. Just a doctor, what to do, because after the collective agreement, the salaries in the isolation hospital, or if I say the cost of work compared to the same period last year with the same period this year are 40% higher. These are extremely difficult questions that we are taking seriously. One of these is public sector negotiations around wage levels and we will also have to open collective agreements. It is true that drugs, new methods are introduced and new costs are incurred. However, I would like to say that the institution and the ministry, as far as the prices of medicines are concerned, have more or less control over the situation. You know the data they are, and I was very pleased with the data from London school of economics, which monitors the prices of medicines throughout the European Community and where it was found that the prices of medicines in Slovenia are among the lower, with the exception of generics where we have some problems. But we must be aware that the pressure of the pharmaceutical industry is severe and the policy of lowering prices is very dangerous, because Slovenia is a small market and they quickly start to threaten and fear that someone will withdraw from us. The government went to a pilot project on biological drugs for the most difficult cancer patients. If you have been monitoring the implementation of oncologists, public statements have been made that Slovenia has been adequately provided with these medicines, perhaps even better than any of the European countries. Investments, doctor, prices are falling, construction is in crisis, and the ministry has saved a lot of money. However, if we remember only the invitation to tender from the previous year for the oncology institute, when the offer was 2,400,000, we are in the next tender in spring this year, the apparition is over, we have received an offer of 1,150,000 and the facility has been realized. So, there are some rationalizations here. How to cover, it goes in two directions: for the first time, rational organisation within the system and with the Health and Health Insurance Act, which we will give to the accounts, in the next three weeks in public treatment, we will extend some of the bases for the payment of contributions so that the resources or revenues of the Health Insurance Office will be slightly greater at the expense of being able to cover these needs. Thus, the organisation within the system, the consistent pressure on management in health work organisations, hospitals and the new law are expected to retain the scope of health services and the programme even in 2009 and 2010 on the scale of 2008. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please, Mr. Cuckoo.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u76	Mr Minister, I am sure that crisis times are also appropriate for better and more consistent completion of internal reserves or the search for internal reserves, are internal reserves and we certainly support you in all these processes, but these internal reserves have their limits. I'm afraid far away they won't be enough for radical changes in health care. The Health Insurance Office also has some mechanisms to read only this year's mechanisms when the second package of measures to ensure the sustainability of the compulsory health insurance system has been adopted, it sounds very good, the package of measures. And what did this package bring? This package just said: in the prices of health services, depreciation is reduced by 20%, wages by 5% and so on. And then the additional conclusion that medical treatment should be reduced from 40% to 15%, that is to say, the proportion of this treatment, which is covered by compulsory health insurance, is reduced, and also medicines from the intermediate list, although this is not directly paid by the patient, but the burden of additional insurance, which sooner or later also turns out to be in the insurance premium, is said to be in the insured’s pocket. It would be too easy: less money will be given to health care and less rights. This can be done by the Department of Health Insurance, but this is not a systemic approach; the system approach can only be done by you or by policy, by the Ministry of Health. And I'd like you to point the direction you're expecting.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u78	I'm the one who told you. The first is a change in the system of organisation of the network and division of labour. The second measure is a tightening to management and a different way of managing health institutions. This can't be happening to us anymore. The following measure is an extension of the basis for the payment of the health insurance contribution. We have enough anomaly here, many in the solidarity system avoid payments and pay, unfortunately legally, minimum wages to pay less contributions, so we will lay the groundwork in the new law and lay the foundations in the law for the payment of the contribution and expand the foundations. These are measures that will be taken by the two laws that come to the National Assembly and engage in systems, organisations, division of labour, networks and increased resources in what is still possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Please, procedurally, Mr. Cuckoo.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u80	I propose that we discuss the Minister's response at the next meeting. In fact, there are too many important questions. Of all the measures you are planning, you have mentioned only one that is truly systemic, that is to expand the tax base and thus increase the revenue to the health treasury. But we now have, say, current problems with concessionaires, forecast the return of concessions, with the most threatened and affected areas that were up to the time of the award of concessions, until the concentration of health services in large cities has decreased and has also spread to rural areas - these areas will be the most affected. There is a great need for human resources, even such numbers, namely the official figures given by public health agencies in their human resources analyses, that we need 600 new doctors in basic health care, that we need 90 gynaecologists, 40 pediatricians and so on. Certainly the announcement of the award of concessions is a serious matter, Mr Minister. Among concessionaires, more than 10, 15% of those who now meet the'retirement quota' can retire tomorrow - and will retire. In a few years, it'll be 30%. Doctors also in basic practice [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u81	May I have peace in the hall?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u82	and if where, then I fear that if there is no systematic approach to solving this issue and if the working conditions are not so designed that those who meet the conditions of retirement are also held back until we are resolved by this large staff error of the last twenty years, when medical schools do not allow a larger enrolment, I do not know how you will provide basic health care, which is a prerequisite for the most rational and best health care and secondary level stress. [[...]] This is one of the flawed approaches where we do not have a systemic measure and there are a number of others we cannot open here, of course, but we would like to open them up in a debate on your response. Mr Minister, surely these are problems, this is not your fault, this is the fault of twenty years and it would probably be good if the National Assembly accepted this initiative and also opened a debate on a broader period of time.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u83	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Ambassador Francet Tsukjati to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Health Borut Miklavčič to his question of the mission, the National Assembly will decide today, ten minutes after the end of agenda 1st. Silven Majhenič will ask the Minister of the Interior and the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, and I would point out that the Minister is absent and, of course, if she has time to discuss the matter, she will be held accountable next time. Please, Comrade Tiny.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u84	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary-General! Vandalism and oblivion of motor bike users arriving in our country from neighbouring European countries and with friends, Slovenian motorists are consciously destroying forest routes, agricultural areas and endangering the hikers and land owners who are on their way. The damage is multilayered: compressing the soil, damage to the roots, motorists are vectors of the transmission of harmful organisms, scaring the wild in the natural environment, unbearable noise, etc. All that is mentioned here is only a fraction of what creates dissatisfaction with landowners, but from despair they find themselves in preventing vandalism and oblivion of motorists on their own. Measures that have a sign of crime, such as shooting at motorists and setting up wire barriers, should also concern law enforcement authorities. Overcrowding and poor police equipment should not be an excuse for not being effective enough to prevent violence against nature and people. However, the occasional presence of the police has no desired effect. In Maribor, this kind of lumbarry also happens in the city garden, which is in the park, practically just a few steps from the police administration. I ask the Minister: When will you equip and train police officers to prevent such crimes and increase the presence in areas that should also be covered by the police? Of course, this is not just about the users of motorcycles, including quadricycles, but also about the users of motor sleigh in wintertime. What are the measures already and will be taken by the Ministry of Agriculture, which are also somehow responsible for the implementation of legality in agricultural and forestry areas? Of course, they should be particularly sensitive when it comes to protected areas, which are not exempt from these vandalistic lumbarities.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Minister of Agriculture Dr. Milan Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u86	Dear Mr. President. Mr President, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament. I thank you for this question. I must say it's addressed to the Ministry of the Interior and to me. I think it should also be addressed to the Minister for the Environment. Because our legislation is very dissipated in this area. Your question concerns the forest, agricultural land. The Law on Agricultural Lands in Article 5 also discusses how agricultural land can and will be driven. However, this can only be done by the owner of the lease or by another user of the agricultural land on his leased or otherwise allocated non-manufactured agricultural land. He must also allow beekeeping, lewdness, and the like. So much for the Agriculture Act. However, the Forest Traffic Act and the Forest Traffic Regulation state that forest roads are forest roads that are primarily designed for forest management and are an integral part of the forest. These roads may also be used by other users as a rule, but it must be indicated that they use this on their own account and that users must use it in accordance with the application regime set out by the Forestry Office, certainly not for engine diversification. This third part has greater competence, namely the Environmental Protection Act and the Regulation on the Prohibition of Driving in a Natural Environment. The problem is that somehow this is divided into two ministers and these powers, we warn too many times. However, that Decision provides that it is prohibited in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia in the natural environment to drive, stop, park, organise motor vehicles, bicycles with auxiliary engines and so on, and to control this in addition to environmental and police inspectors, including forest and agriculture inspectors. This is the area I'm in charge of. I agree with you that more and more of these motor vehicles are being observed in the natural environment and also all the consequences that you have mentioned are harmful to the environment. I must say, the most effective control is in the case of police and inspection. A number of such effective actions have been carried out, mainly because the police have provided ground vehicles with radio connections to the inspection, as monitoring often takes place in areas where there is no cell phone signal. And we find that the increased number of motor vehicles is that they are in the summer motocross motors and quadricycles and in the winter motor sleds. Since the regulation of this area - once again I apologize to my distinguished colleague, Mr Environment Minister, because I am talking about his field - under the responsibility of the Ministry of Environment and Space, we propose that the issue of the legal regulation of the prohibition of driving in the natural environment be addressed to him. I would say, however, that the ILO is also carrying out certain activities. An interdepartmental working group for the regulation of driving in the natural environment has been set up and there is also a representative of the Ministry of Agriculture and also a representative of the police. The working group last met at the end of September this year. In addition, I would say that the forestry inspection carried out a number of resounding control actions in the Trnovi forest area, Snow White, Blegoša, Pohorje, in Rogli was controlled by motor dream driving, between Bohorje and Lisco were also carried out checks, 18 payment orders were issued under all the controls that were carried out. Certainly, this control is a part of the prevention of such wildlings in our forests, we place a much greater impact on the educational and more frequent presence of inspection and police in the forest and in the forest. The parcels issued at the time the order was adopted were also useful. These have gone, and I think it's imperative to reprint them. I must say, the response to this kind of warning has been sufficiently receptive. I hope I answered at least partially your question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please, Mr. Tiny.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u88	Thank you, Mr. President. The destruction of a protected habitat is a crime and a prison sentence is also at risk. I therefore wonder when the country will start implementing the law. Inspectors, forestry and environmental, should cover these areas as set out in the Regulation. True, there are too few of them, but things will have to be set aside so that irregularities will no longer occur. Current rules do not allow the implementation of the Penal Code. However, the fines for offences are shamefully low, only €41 can be punished by the police officer who receives them. This is what attracts and does not deter offenders, for 41 euros does not mean anything for an Austrian who comes here, but his scoundrel here. I would therefore ask: When will the penalties for such offences be comparable to that of Europe? We know that in Austria there are fines of between 100 and some 10,000 euros for such violations and the impounding of a motorcycle, which is why such things cannot happen in Austria and do not happen, but with us. Such a punishment would also sober up all those who come to us from Austria and joyfully destroy our forests, meadows, hiking paths in front of all of us who cannot see it. This is just not the kind of tourism they like to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Please, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u90	Dear Member, I have already mentioned that - I apologize Karl, because little of this is your area - an interdepartmental working group was established at the Ministry of Environment and Space, so colleagues from the environment informed us, and these intensive works. I think it is very useful that we also refer this addition to the question to them, in fact, to agree more precisely on the area of sanctions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Tiny, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u92	Thank you, Mr. President. Since the Minister of the Interior is not here today, I would ask that she provide me with an answer in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u93	Thank you very much. We will notify the Minister and you will receive a written reply. Thank you very much. Dr. Peter Verlich will ask the Minister of Transport a question. Please, Dr. Verlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. In the media, I read that two companies owned by the state, Dars and Luka Koper, or their supervisory boards, hired an agency or one agency to appoint members of the administrations, while the other was written by a lawyer who was actually supposed to advise the supervisory board on the selection of the right members of the administrations. I wonder: How do you assess this move of the Governing Council? What was the cost of renting these agencies and offices? I also ask: Does it not seem to you that this is the original task of the Governing Council, that they have been appointed to the Governing Council to do this task, if any, then they will? Last but not least, Human Resources Accreditation Councils, one basic and then eight, as I have seen from the reply to my written question, have been set up in the Government, for which I thank the Government for the correct answer, which, however, shows that all these Human Resources Accreditation Councils, I understand, have already caused 43,000 Euros for their work. I would like to ask: If they are established, why the additional costs, why are we also hiring agencies? To help the control council! In short, I've already expected a sharp response to you protesting. I even expected you to call them off, so that - at least those supervisors who were called by the Government - would step down and, above all, return their meetings. That is why, in fact, they are there to carry out their tasks, because I fear that this practice will continue and that the Supervisory Board will not take any decision without an appropriate agency, a law firm, I do not know which expert, will not at all want to take any more. And here I think that this shows some new practice, which is probably not supported in these times of economic tightening.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u95	Thank you very much. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u96	Thank you, President. Dear Member, thank you very much for your question. The Human Resources and Accreditation Councils shall be the advisory body of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the selection of members of the Supervisory Boards or of the Management Boards of the companies in which the Republic of Slovenia holds an ownership stake. In the selection of members of the boards of companies do not participate, but members of the boards select and appoint the supervisory councils of companies or in some cases, as in the case of Darsa, it is the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. It's Darsa, d.d. appoints the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Supervisory Board of the Society has the power to propose the appointment or discharge of candidates. Therefore, Darsa’s Supervisory Board decided to hire a human resources agency to assist in the election of President Darsa. The reasons given were to allow for an equal, professional and transparent choice of the right candidate. To this end, three tenders were approved that met the requirements of the Personnel Commission of the Supervisory Board. Among the three tenders selected were the most favourable company, Easteuro, whose price was EUR 5,700 without tax. Candidates were selected according to a uniform methodology or evaluated according to a uniform methodology according to the criteria set. The 17 tenders received were ranked by the staff agency according to the competences and experience of the candidates. Of the seventeen candidates, the Agency conducted six interviews with those eligible for tender. She prepared an expert report and an opinion on the suitability of the candidate for the City. The Human Resources Commission of the Supervisory Board then conducted four of these interviews and this procedure ensured equal treatment of each candidate and made it possible to choose a candidate, in this case, for the office of President of the administration of Dars. Luka Koper has a business cooperation agreement with the Bar of Cheferin. In the selection process, the law firm provided only logistical assistance to the Personnel Board of the Supervisory Board and failed to carry out substantive tasks. Therefore, with the lawyer's office in the selection of candidates according to our information for Luka Koper, this service of the law firm did not cause any additional costs. The aim of the supervisory boards of both companies is to ensure the selection of the best candidates to run the company, since the wrong choice of the candidate can cost the company much more than the possible payment of professional assistance in the selection of candidates. In my opinion, the Governing Council did not make such mistakes that it was necessary to invite them to resign.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Can I have your answer, please? Can I help you? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u98	Yeah, sure. So this answer, in fact, said only that there were additional costs. And I understand that the Human Resources and Accreditation Council now chooses members of the supervisory councils by the new human resources paradigm. But these members of the oversight councils apparently are not able to carry out their original tasks. That was my question. It's their original job to do this on their own. It's their responsibility! Is now the responsibility of the human resources agency they have hired - okay, now for 5,700 euros, secondly, I do not know, for 10,000 euros - is this the responsibility of the supervisory board? What if this candidate who has been elected - I don't know which candidates have now become members of the boards; it might be interesting to hear who they are to see if now the human resources agencies have really chosen the best. But will these members of the oversight councils now? I don't agree, I think they caused extra costs for something they should do for themselves and got a meeting for it. At least that meeting to select board members, at least for those sessions, could have returned the meeting if they had to hire an agency. So here I ask you: Do you think that this will be a good time - it is likely that a new practice will be introduced, now probably for appointment of members of the board, tomorrow for the next decisions. Do you feel comfortable with the oversight councils now doing so in a new way, especially in these times? And: Why don’t they do their job? That's what I think is their responsibility. Because tomorrow they're going to say, "No, we didn't pick it, we chose it on a proposal from the advisory agency." The legal office of Cheferin will, of course, help this supervisory council get away from a bad decision - or how? Really, I think it's new. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u100	First of all, the fact that an office has participated in the selection itself, I repeat: it was only logistical aid, and here I will tell you what this is about before the National Assembly. Tenders shall, on behalf of transparency, be a way to reach the President of the Management Board or a member of the Management Board. However, there is one problem that has already been pointed out by many experts in the Republic of Slovenia. The problem is that those who apply for an invitation to tender are usually not without work and work in a company, because of such an application for an invitation to tender, the existing owner may become unfavourable because it means that he is not satisfied or wants to go on. And of course, this discretion when you apply for a new job is important. Therefore, it was the cooperation of the law firm to ensure the protection of those who applied, because public calls, when they bring certain advantages, also bring with them certain problems. But once again, according to our information, this assistance from the law firm didn't cost anything. As far as assistance from the Human Resources Agency is concerned. The Governing Councils are responsible for all their assets for their conduct. In the case of Dars, it's very big money. And it has often happened in the past that the Supervisory Councils have hired some law firm or some additional financier for in-depth financial review of certain documents. So hiring a human resources agency was their decision to come up with the highest possible quality name for this really important society for the country. It is true that the recruitment, or choice, of the Government's proposal is one of their most important duties. How this procedure should proceed is not described in any internal acts, except by proposing a candidate or candidate to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. That's what they did, and then we confirmed it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Please, Dr. Peter Verlich, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u102	I would like to have a procedural discussion on this at the meeting of the National Assembly, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. In view of what the Minister has now said, I understand him from his point of view, and he has defended himself in the supervisory world, one and the other. And, of course, he also made a defense that they could now be in companies that actually have their logistical functions, have their legal work, have their own human resources service, that is, all logistics, both Luka Koper and Dars have a very well-organized job to do so and can help with quality, without hiring a special staff agency. The point is that the Supervisory Board must be able to carry out this original task on its own. But it seems that even though we are at a time when, in fact everywhere and even in the Government, you are putting great emphasis on saving and looking at everything through costs in one way or another and looking for costs to be reduced, on the other hand, the practice is being applied that there are also new costs of consulting the supervisory councils in addition to the meetings. I am sure that this will not be the first and final decision of the Supervisory Board. I think it will appear, now after a new one, to advise the supervisory board at every session of the next supervisory council. Why do I propose, once again, that this broader debate take place in the National Assembly? Because it is likely that legislation will have to be amended in this area, it is likely that the Company Act imposes the responsibilities and tasks of the Supervisory Councils. I guess we're gonna have to talk about this. But perhaps the current supervisory councils of this economic crisis do not feel and rather cause new costs, which is certainly wrong and inappropriate. I'm here, Minister, really expected you to put more pressure on the supervisory councils and teach them what their task is, but apparently they've been given a mandate to hire agencies and companies to raise additional costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u103	Thank you. Mr Verlic's proposal to hold a debate at the next meeting on the Minister's response to his question of transport, the National Assembly will decide today, 10 minutes after the end of the first item of the agenda. Mr Villa Trofenik has the floor to ask the Minister for Environment and Space a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u104	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present. Dear Minister for Environment and Space. My introduction will be a little unusual about this issue and I apologize in advance, but there is nothing evil about it. The question relating to a problem that is not directly related to your mandate, but since 2003, I wanted to ask you in March, and the leadership of the National Assembly has denied me the question on the ground that it is of local importance. Then I wrote you a written question - I didn't get an answer to it. On 18 August 2009, I tried under the law on access to information of a public nature - but I received a negative and negative decision from the competent authority in your ministry. I ask: Has part of the concession fee for the energy exploitation of the Drava River been paid to municipalities along the Drava River in accordance with the adopted Regulation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for 2007? If part of the concession fees were not paid to the individual congregation: What are the reasons for this? Why did not individual congregations receive this? Has a regulation been adopted for 2008 and payments have been made? Has the Regulation been adopted for 2009? If not adopted for this year: When will it be adopted? To make no mistake, it is eight energy facilities or hydropower plants on the Drava River, which, in accordance with the 2003 government regulation, have been extended annually by all governments, municipalities or gives municipalities: Dravograd, Muta, Vuzenica, Radlje ob Drava, Podvelka, Lovrenc na Pohorje, Selnica, Ruše, Miklavž, Maribor, Duplek, Parents, Eden, Ptuj, Markovci, Videm, Zavrč, Gorišnica and Ormož. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u105	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u106	I thank the MP for the question. He wasn't so mean, at least not to me to thank him. As regards concessions for the specific use of water, this is calculated on the basis of the specific formula published in the specific Regulation and is also an integral part of the concession contract in an article setting out the payment for the concession. The amount of the concession payment shall be equal to three per cent of the average sales value in the calendar year produced and in the public electricity network. I must say that in the newer regulations or in those concessions where the scope of the concession has increased, the concession shall be calculated on the basis of the following formula, which provides that 4.2% of the average sales value in the calendar year is produced and in the public electricity network. Last year, the Water Act was amended, which provides that all hydroelectric power plants producing electricity shall be taken into account in the calculation of the concession, not only those supplying electricity to the public electricity network, as was the case prior to this amendment of the law. The concession shall be calculated on the basis of the information to be reported by the concessionaire on the appropriate form. If the data are not real, the Environment Agency may check them at the Energy Directorate of the Ministry of the Economy or at the local electricity distributor if the concessionaire broadcasts all the production electricity on the network. So the agency can check that out any minute. This is supported by a computer programme that automatically calculates the data entered and makes such a calculation for the previous year and two ongoing annual withdrawals with the currency of payment on the last working day in June and the last working day in December. The concession is accounted for, as you yourself said, in favour of the Republic of Slovenia at 40% and in favour of the local municipality at 60%. The annual concessionaire receives six invoices, invoices and two advances in favour of the Republic of Slovenia and a calculation and two advances in favour of the local municipality. The concessionaires shall pay directly to the State located at the Ministry of Finance and to the account of each local municipality. However, the monitoring of the implementation of payments is carried out by the Financial Service of the Environment Agency, which also regularly alerts the non-payments, exposes late interest and transfers false remittances to the correct sub-accounts. The Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Environment shall notify the non-paymenter of the breach of the concession contract and may also withdraw the concession. With regard to a particular case, I must say that I have not been aware that this is a problem for all these congregations. In view of the above, I will order the Environment Agency to verify how these payments are being made, in particular for the sub-account relating to the local municipalities. This will enable us to determine whether these payments have actually been made. If they are not executed, and as I said, we have the worst option, this is the withdrawal of a concession for the specific use of water, but we are serving in these cases in particular recovery, which is carried out through the State's defence. That way, on the basis of these data, I will determine whether these payments are being made. If they are not carried out on the basis of local municipalities, we will warn the concessionaire, set a deadline for him, and if he fails to do so, we will continue to act. So it depends on what I find out.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u107	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u108	Thank you, Madam Vice President. First of all, thank the Minister for the first part of the very detailed response. However, the essence of the answer was not: Is the concession paid for the years I mentioned to all those eligible for the concession? I have the information for 2007 that some municipalities - not to mention - have received them and others have not received them. Given the system you described, which is logical, I don't think it's being implemented. I would therefore like to ask for an additional reply. I found out from your response that you don't have the right information. On the other hand, I would ask, Mr Minister, that the authorised person to have access to information of a public nature in your ministry should also know this, to justify its negative decisions, that the Ministry does not have the database or the document and therefore does not have to provide it in accordance with the law. From your interview, when you said who the authority of control is, this is called the ARSU, which should also have the relevant information and obviously here something, excuse the expression in the sentence, "no number". I've formally taken advantage of this supplementary question. I doubt you'll be able to tell me anything tangible, but I'm going to make a point here.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u109	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u110	Your Honour, you have correctly found that I do not have this information at this time, and I will be difficult to answer. However, I propose that we give you a written answer on this question of yours, how is 2007? I will also check why these payments have not been made and, in accordance with the powers vested in the Environment Agency, also take appropriate action if it is found that these payments have not actually been made to the local municipalities.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u111	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u112	In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246, I propose that there should be a debate on the Minister's response, not in terms of dissatisfaction, although I have not received a full response and I expect not only for 2007 but also for 2008 and 2009, an additional reply in writing and in the context of the debate, because this is closely linked to the issue raised today by colleague Ribič, concerning the problems on the Drava River. I would like to point out that from the Drava River, through energy use, accumulation, not water, but in the financial sense of spillage across Slovenia, the local communities are left without the law on their respective assets and the river is inadequately maintained from the point of view of accumulation in a financial sense, which would be possible, in particular through the spillage of water funds from this area across Slovenia for some other investments that do not directly relate to the water fund. I therefore propose that the debate or the National Assembly decide in the context of the votes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u113	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Trofenik to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of the Environment and the space to his question, the National Assembly will decide today, 10 minutes after the end of the first item of the agenda. Mr Jožef Jerovšek will ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Dear Mr. Secretary! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia recently adopted a proposal for the discharge of Slovenian ambassadors in the Republic of Italy, the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Croatia. At the same time, the Government did not make timely arrangements for the appointment of new ambassadors to the places of priority in the implementation of the foreign policy of the Republic of Slovenia. As it has not done so, it is clear that the selfish human rights appetites of government parties and government politicians are once again suffering the interests of the state. We all know that the long-term meeting of the ambassadorial cities for business executives in the past year has been severely avenged in the case of the Slovenian public informed of the essence of Slovenia's dispute with the Republic of Croatia and almost complete lobbying for the benefit of the country with the Croatian pre-trialisation of the border in the negotiating process with the European Union. At that time, Slovenia came into an internationally subordinate position, the consequences of which are still felt. I therefore ask: Why are these ambassadorial cities reserved for the visible representatives of the current authorities and awaiting the adoption of an amendment to the law on external matters, which will enable political recruitment again? Why does the Ministry of Foreign Affairs prefer the interests of government parties to the interests of the State? Why did the government not extend the mandates of the current ambassadors if it has already decided to wait for the possibility of political recruitment? We all know that the absence of embassy cities is the worst possible solution. I also ask: How can it be that, in an extremely critical phase of negotiations with the Republic of Croatia, a country without an ambassador in Zagreb, without access to important information and without the possibility of up-to-date intervention in the highest places. We know the ambassador's ministers and others are obliged to accept it, while the business manager can either ignore it or send it to the lower officials. Is the withdrawal of the ambassador from Rome a silent message from the Government of the Republic of Italy that Slovenia will keep its eyes closed when paving funds for the Slovenian minority in Italy and the Italian strangulation of the Slovenian Permanent Theatre in Trieste? I'm also asking you: Who are the political electorates who ignore vital state interests? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u115	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Mr President, Mr Member. Thank you for the questions or questions. I'll take my turn. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has initiated procedures in due time for the appointment of new ambassadors. We have already published a list of vacancies for this year and next year before summer. We have carried out a survey of the interests of diplomats in the Ministry of these cities. We also issued a formal invitation to tender for these three cities opened this year. These three cities have not yet been opened; the mandates close at the end of October I look back at the end of November in Zagreb. Why have we not extended the contract diplomats because there are contractual diplomats in all three places? Under the law, contractual diplomats cannot be extended. They have a contract with the Ministry, which cannot be extended, and only a new contract can be concluded. The new contract can only be concluded with the start of the whole procedure for the appointment of an ambassador. Thus, we have already come into situations in the past where we may wish to extend to contract diplomats, and this has not been formally possible. These are three very important cities, as you can see for Slovenia. Therefore, we also want to make such a choice that the most suitable people will come to these places. That's why we've taken as much time as we need. As I said, the interest for cities was published before summer, the selection of candidates was made, also the formal invitation was issued, the selection of candidates was made, the coordination is taking place, and I think it is enough time for these candidates to come to their seats in time. In the meantime, very short time, the embassies will be run by business executives, which is not unusual, is normal. But there won't be a longer break. We're not waiting for a new law to be passed. When we choose candidates, we will decide whether everyone already meets the conditions. If we assess that a certain candidate is the most suitable candidate for a particular place, but at this point does not meet the conditions under the current law, we will wait with that place for the adoption of the law, otherwise I think that a number of places will be possible to carry out the procedure under the old law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u117	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u118	Dear Mr. Secretary. I cannot be satisfied with your answer because these are extremely important questions. It is not possible to agree that the work is done on time. If it were timely, next week or after the 1st of November, when both embassies were emptied, the Slovenian ambassador would be there in key priority places. These are bureaucratic excuses and the chances of doing so have been enough. Also, when you say that we are not waiting for a new law to be passed, you are denouncing yourself and your statements when you said on the Committee on Foreign Policy and also on TV that it is also possible for politicians to go to these ambassadorial posts. It is not possible to send a policy without a change of law. I would also like an answer: Why will the ambassadorial city in Rome, while the Italian government is taking money, practically close the Permanent Slovenian Theatre in Trieste, be without an ambassador. In politics, this is a silent message that the Slovenian government agrees with this, because the discharge of the embassy city means a lot of something symbolic. You don't need to be taught about this, because you know it. And just for the sake of being able to go to politicians, to sacrifice and neglect national interests, it is terrifying. And say, "What policies are we doing so they can have these important embassies?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u119	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Mr Member, I am very pleased that you are concerned about Slovenia's external political reputation, and I hope that there will also be debates in the National Assembly on other issues that are being raised in public these days, which are related to Slovenia's participation with very important countries in the international community, and you will follow the same principle. As regards the Slovenian Permanent Theatre in Trieste, we are doing everything possible through the embassy through the consulate. On 9 November, the Co-ordination Committee will be here with Italy, where we will also resolve this issue. As I understand it, he's already being rescued in Trieste with the help of a minority. I also said today that when choosing candidates, we will assess who is best for a particular place and whether or not it meets the conditions. So I'm not giving up on what I've said before - if we find out that the best candidate for a city is someone who doesn't meet the conditions right now [[One of the conditions is that he is also from the foreign ministry]] We'll just wait for a new marriage. That doesn't mean, and there's absolutely no evidence that we're keeping these places closed now to wait for a new marriage. I think it's better to have good ambassadors than to be afraid if he does business for a month or three months. The ambassador will be there for four years and it is better to have the best ambassador in that place than to fear that maybe a few months will be done by the business manager. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u121	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u122	Thank you very much. I would like to please the Minister, who said in that speech that he hoped that there would be discussions on this in the National Assembly. I therefore propose a general discussion under Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure. The way in which ambassadorial posts are occupied, when they are occupied, whether these ambassadors are performing their duties for the benefit of the State, are so important questions that, with this answer, it is not important that in the meantime, business redundancies are not satisfied. Last year, when President Türk didn't send the ambassadors, there was tremendous damage. We know that the symbolic significance and actual importance of the ambassador is remarkable. At the request of the State, the ambassador must be accepted either by an external minister or even a higher or other minister, while the business manager may be left on hold or sent to the lower officials. The practical state cannot intervene in such a case. He can't. And it is Belgrade, Zagreb and Rome, where the key decisions of this country are now being taken regarding Zagreb. We'll be there in a week or a month without an ambassador. How does the government imagine representing the interests of this country? No country would have done so in such a case. And I can't agree that it wasn't a different solution. It was possible, and this extension is certainly possible in due time, so I ask that we hold a general debate on these important issues or requirements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u123	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Jerovska to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Foreign Affairs to his question, the National Assembly will decide today in the framework of the votes, which is 10 minutes after the end of point 1. Dr. Luka Juri will now ask the Minister of Transport a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister Patrick Vlačič. On 2 September this year, the Supervisory Board of the Association for Motorways of the Republic of Slovenia concluded an agreement with the Administration on an agreement settlement, which also provided for a maximum of 6 times the monthly average wage. In the light of the Government's decision of 22 January this year, this was the highest possible withdrawal, which, in the same decision of 22 January, is linked to the fact that the persons we accept such dismissal should leave the company immediately. This did not happen because then members of the administration are still employed in Darsa and still receive the wages of the same height as they were when they were members of the administration and also received the same benefits as at the time. So they did not stick to the agreement that was concluded, nor did they follow the recommendation or decision of the Government on January 22. It should also be noted that the level of wages itself is not in line with the Government's recommendations on wage binding to the average wage in the company. So I ask you: what will happen to your retirements, in accordance with the legislation that allows you to act if it allows you to? And here I am aware that legislation is a complex system, which is also linked to an existing situation that was already in place before you arrived. However, I would like to ask: What will happen, given that the retirement has been paid in breach of the agreement or that the salary still paid or their employment is contrary to the agreement on the payment of the pension itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u125	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u126	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Member, Dr. Luke Yuri, thank you very much for your question. An agreement on the termination of the employment contract with the former administration of Darsa has been concluded by the supervisory board of the company, which has also agreed on the conditions under which the parties to the agreement have signed the agreement. The Ministry of Transport is not involved in these agreements and the conclusion of agreements and does not have the authority to do so. Nevertheless, I can say that your statement that the dismissed members of the Dars administration are still employed in society is correct, but to some extent. Indeed, this is due to the extremely favourable contracts signed by the then supervisory board in the former administration. With employment contracts, former members of the Dars administration had higher pensions than were agreed by the termination agreement. In addition, despite their dismissal, they had an undetermined job in Dars for an adequate salary. By agreement, the Supervisory Board of the Company has managed to reduce the corresponding emoluments to the level of the Government's recommendations. In addition, their working relationship will end within four months of the adoption of the Government's decision on discharge. And from then on, they will no longer be employed in society. Since their working relationship will end after four months, they are still employed in Dars, d.d. As it is said, if they were to comply with their contractual arrangements, they would remain there for an indefinite period of time and the Supervisory Board agreed with them to leave after four months of separation. I believe that the Supervisory Board has acted in its best interests on the basis of the basis it has had in view of these very favourable contracts for the former administration. That he has made the best of his ability, conscience and knowledge and that he has concluded a suitable agreement for society, in the light of the circumstances, if compared in particular with the previous contracts. I hope I answered your question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u127	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. As I understand it, a situation that is not only unusual, but in my view, in the end, a financial burden on an undertaking is more than it was reasonable, as a result of the contracts concluded by the previous Supervisory Board when it just put it. Given that the supervisors are responsible for the content of the contracts, and in this case, given that the contracts were so favourable that the question is actually whether they were meaningful for the company, I am interested in: Will you consider the possibility of introducing procedures to identify the personal responsibility of the then overseers for such contracts? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u129	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u130	Look, legally speaking, the anomaly is that the severance and the indefinite time are two things that don't go together. The point of retirement is that when it is extended to a work relationship that is linked to a mandate, then you can make a retirement provision for a time in which you can find a new job. That's the whole point of being away. And that's the risk you take when you go to a job. But it's a denial of this severance job because it offers you this security that the severance department gives you to find yourself a new job. So these two things are basically not going well together. And this testimony to the former supervisory council that signed such contracts is in place. I will write to the Supervisory Board to check all legal options and see if it is possible to take any action. But I repeat that it's basically at odds that you have a retirement and then a job for an indefinite period of time. Especially if it's in two places at once.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u131	Thank you. You want a procedural proposal? [[No, no, ……]] Now Mr Ivan Grill will ask the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology a question, which is absent and you will tell yourself whether you want an oral answer or not. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u132	Thank you very much. I regret that there is no minister here, thus clearly showing an irresponsible attitude towards this issue, which is particularly important for Dolenjska, Novo mesto. In Dolenjska, New Town, we have been working for more than 10 years to get to our university, to quality colleges, and not without reason. This region has an industry which is one of the most successful in Slovenia, highly export-oriented, with high value added products and therefore needs a well-educated higher education staff of specific skills. And such a staff in Slovenia, especially in this part of Slovenia, is greatly lacking. To this issue, to this end, the Government, in its previous mandate, also had a call from the National Assembly, an understanding, and we have also established the first State Faculty, which has its seat in Novi Grad. This university has also been very well received among young people. All admission cities are completed in both undergraduate and postgraduate studies, which is a guarantee that this university will be able to come to life, of course. The management of this university wants to see that in the field of scientific research, there will also be an important segment that reflects the quality of future graduates to be dissipated in the field under study. To this end, she wanted to set up this university together with a highly recognised international firm Infotechna Institute, where we could develop scientific research together. Regrettably, the Ministry or Government must give consent to such a joint establishment, but for reasons that are not understandable, it refused to give consent. I'd understand if this were related to financial resources. No financial resources should be provided here by the state, but it is obviously a prestige or, we can say, a deliberate delay or a set-up. Let me say that this company Infotechna is internationally recognised, selling its information solutions around the world, more than 250 recognized multinationals in the fields of medicine, pharmaceuticals, banking, and I am sure that such cooperation with such a company could have a beneficial impact on the development of this work mainly for our future diplomats. Krka, where this company also sells its products, is one of the future companies that will also need such personnel. I hope that at the next meeting, Minister Golobič will be able to justify where the reasons for such a refusal of consent are valid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u133	Thank you. Your question or your question will be answered by the Minister at the next meeting of the National Assembly. Mr Miran Györek will now ask the Minister of Environment and Space a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u134	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Mr. Secretary. I ask you: How do the competent authorities control the legal persons and their employees who have obtained concessions for the performance of chimney services? I am also interested in: Who and how does he control the number of employees in an individual concessionaire for the provision of chimney service services to the number of equivalent combustion plants? This means, under the new regulation, one employee on 2,000 equivalent combustion plants. The smokers themselves complain of violations of the rules of certain operators and demand that this be prevented and that such concessionaires be punished. Such complaints come from different parts of Slovenia. Apparently, there are major violations in the area of Lendava, the area of Maribor and elsewhere. Infringements have been proven by evidence that has also been delivered to your ministry. Unfortunately, the situation is still unsavory. It is also a failure to exercise control over concessionaires when they do not provide their services with the personnel they have notified on a public invitation to tender. That's what your ministry has been alerted to on several occasions in their applications. In accordance with the concession contract, concessionaires are obliged to provide services to those workers who have been notified in a public tender which constitutes the basis for the conclusion of the concession contract. In the case of staff changes, concessionaires are obliged to replace workers with adequate education and skills, as this can ensure the quality of the provision of chimney services and consequently adequate fire safety. Major infringements of the regulation also occur in the employment of an appropriate number of workers. Under the terms of the invitation to tender, it is also laid down that the applicant must have an appropriate number of workers on every 2,000 equivalent combustion plants and that he must not provide any false, misleading data in the application. At the Ministry of Environment and Space there is documentation showing that notifiers have not adjusted the appropriate number of workers, which proves that they have deliberately violated the rules. The fact is that some operators have not adapted the employment of personnel in chimney areas and have thus violated the regulation and have gained a much competitive advantage over those who respect the laws. What is even more important and tragic is that this also endangers the fire safety of the inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia. I'm asking for an explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u135	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u136	I thank the Member for the question. In fact, the issue of chimneys is very hot, especially after the last amendment to the law, when the chimney public service began to regulate through concessions. I must say that everyone is dissatisfied, especially users and even small chimneys, which somehow fell out. I must say that I began to deal with this problem at the time of the ministerial appearance, because there is also a very sensitive problem in the public domain. We have appointed a special committee to review the system that is in place. We believe that this system is not the best, and we are even thinking about bringing the chimney activity back to the local community, because local communities have better scrutiny and even greater opportunities for better control. Of course, this is a matter of law change and it is still being discussed within the working group. However, I must say that, with regard to the implementation of the chimney service itself, we will make certain changes, according to existing legislation. The first step will be a new price list, because there are also many complaints that, for example, they charge over €500 for three minutes of work. Thus, this pricer will allow payment on the basis of real work done, real time delay, which will of course raise a lot of dust in those who have a concession to carry out this service. However, this will be very pleasantly welcomed by the users. With regard to supervision, it is the Ministry of the Environment which exercises this control. I must say, in the past, this control has not been carried out. We are now strengthening the service within the Ministry of the Environment, which would carry out this control, because in fact you have stated some very good cases that there is a lack of respect for concession contracts. However, it should be borne in mind that these concession contracts have been concluded for 8 years, and so there is also the problem of amending legislation. If we were to make a change and otherwise regulate the activity of the chimney service, these concessioneers would have the right to claim compensation from the State because this concession was granted to them and they had certain costs in this regard to establish the relevant services and possibly for lost profits. I must say, we will now begin these controls. Where irregularities will be detected in such a way as you have said, for example, that the staffing structure does not conform to what has been declared for the acquisition of the concession contract, we will act in accordance with the law. Thus, the Government, the Concendent, may unilaterally derogate from these contracts if we find that the concession contract is not implemented in accordance with the concession, in accordance with the concession act, in accordance with the Regulation, if it does not notify the Ministry of the Environment, for example, that they have compensated the declared staff with a replacement staff, so as not to carry out this service by the specific person who is misled in this application, which was the basis for the concession contract. We are working very intensively here, but it is true that this area has been intact in recent years, that in fact these controls have not been carried out, that we also have no authorised persons who could exercise this control, because certain conditions are also needed, such as the exam from the General Administrative Procedure Act and so on. This way I can assure you that in this area we will carry out these controls, arrange them, and also look at all these documents that you have sent, evidence of irregularities. But I have a number of others. We are reviewing this documentation, and on this basis we will also initiate appropriate procedures.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u137	Thank you. Would you like a supplement, Mr. Györek? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u138	Dear Minister, I am pleased with your comprehensive and good answer, but because the distinguished Minister of Finance has just arrived, I would like to add a little bit more to that control and tariff, because I could use every two flies at once with these two minutes that I still have. Why is there no financial control over concessionaires? We have operators who are not even taxpayers or have very low incomes reported in their balance sheets. As a concessionaire, however, he provides services on thousands of devices. If we use simple farming logic, calculation, mathematics and calculate that annual services on one equivalent device cost EUR 55 gross and the contractor has a contract for 3,000 equivalent devices. Such an operator should create 165 thousand gross traffic. The State would pay EUR 27,500 per year or EUR 2200 per month. The balance sheet reported is the opposite. The answer is whether it does not work or does not report all the revenue it generates. If it doesn't work, it does even more damage than if it doesn't report it, because fire safety is probably here in the first place, and then it's also a financial issue. That is why it would not be bad if Mr Financial Minister listened to this issue and found out how money crawls between his fingers here as well. We all know that chimney services are not cheap to pay, regardless of whether the population has no money or bread. So on this occasion, I would ask the minister, because they're both here: How will you act to remedy this situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u139	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u140	Thank you. I'll do it instead of the Minister of Finance because he can't answer your question. I must say that we will carry out these controls by including tax inspectors. Where we find out, we suspect that everything has not been reported, we will refer this to the tax inspectors who will examine these matters. We will make general supervision, that is to say, regarding employees, income, services provided, quality of services provided, etc. This is taking some time. However, when we go into action, we will go very deep and hope to achieve a better quality of services in this way, because it seems to me that in certain areas the services do not work as they would like. Some, however, act in accordance with concession contracts and are also satisfied with users. However, these exceptional cases, which cause a lot of dissatisfaction, we want to find out and take appropriate action, and we will also cooperate here with the tax inspectors in any way.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u141	Thank you. Franz Bogovic will ask the Minister of Finance a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u142	Good afternoon. Your Honor, the vice president. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The question is of a broader nature, so I'd like to address it to two ministers. One of them gave him up, and I hope the finance minister can answer. At an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 9 October 2009, the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Borut Pahor, spoke about statistics on the exploitation of European funds and said institutional changes were needed if we wanted to be more successful. He also quoted the former Minister responsible for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, Mag. Golden Plosteiner, who said, quote: "I immediately noticed where the problems in the system are, but this system is accredited, and if we went immediately into changes in the system, we would need time for new accreditation in Brussels and would be further delayed with time to succeed in drawing European funds." Minister Križanič also said at the said meeting that the mistakes had been made by the European funds drawback programme and that the question was also addressed to both ministers. The question I am interested in is: What are the specific mistakes that the European Commissioner for Regional Policy, Danute Hübner, has repeatedly praised Slovenia? At the end of the previous government's term of office, the European Commissioner for Slovenia noted the following: "We are in the process of implementing the new programming period. Slovenia is one of the first Member States whose programmes have been adopted. The Slovenian Audit System is an appropriate, good administrative capacity to implement cohesion policy funds. Programme period 2004 - 2006. From the European Regional Development Fund, Slovenia has absorbed 95% of the funds and 90% of the other funds, which makes the European Commission pleased. For the period 2007-2013, Slovenia has negotiated €4.2 billion for cohesion policy, 3.5 times more than in the previous period. At the conclusion of the negotiations for the period 2007-2013, projects of approximately €1.5 billion were engaged and approved by the end of the mandate under all operational programmes. This is also confirmed by the Director-General at the Directorate-General for Regional Policy at the European Commission on the last visit to Slovenia. Therefore, in the face of many of the mistakes mentioned and exposed today, I would ask you, distinguished Minister Križanič: What are the conclusions that have been found? What, then, are the appropriate measures to eliminate this and to implement this programme, which we have talked about very much in the past week, as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u143	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u144	Allow me to present first the prepared answer and then my interpretation. I hope it'll allow me time. Where does it assess that the main reason for the poor use of European funds is a complicated implementation system and a forecast that this system will need to be simplified? Slovenia has received four times more funding for the 2007-2013 programming period than in the previous period. However, according to individual operational programmes, the planned funds were the following. The operational programme for the development of environmental and transport infrastructure is the only successful drawback, with €636 million being rounded up in the European Union for the period 2007-2015. The 2007 planned funds, which had already been fully completed and evaluated, which had to be drawn from Brussels by the end of 2010, were 104 million. Slovenia has certified 80 million of these, which is about 77% of the planned value. And there is no doubt that by 2010, this programme will be reinforced and effectively implemented. Good practice in this programme, where projects are mostly larger or at least medium, also shows the right way to solve the problem. If we have a problem that we need to solve with public funds and this problem is limited to a smaller area, it is better to resolve it from the budget directly than through more complex and controlled or hyper-controlled levers in drawing EU funds. But the other two programs are problematic. This is an operational programme to strengthen regional development potentials. A total of € 1 billion 728 million was foreseen from the EU budget between 2007 and 2015. The planned funding for 2007 to be drawn from Brussels by the end of 2010 was EUR 311 million. Of this, Slovenia has ratified nothing more and no less than 23 million 731,000, representing 7.6% of the planned value. The reason for the poor absorption of regional funds was the large backlog of the Ministry and the government service in submitting requests for reimbursement when they were already paid out of the state budget. The findings of the Court of Auditors regarding calls for the development of the regions are also an obstacle to more efficient drawing. The next programme, which is even worse than this, is not the worst regional fund, is an operational programme for the development of human resources. Together with the EU, EUR 756 million was foreseen for the financial perspective 2007-2015. The planned funding for 2007 to be drawn from Brussels by the end of 2010 was EUR 126 million. Slovenia has drawn good €3 million out of this, representing 2.6% of the planned value. Drawing on this fund or operational programme shall be least effective. The Ministry's backlog in the implementation of the projects and in the submission of requests for reimbursement of funds already paid from the State budget. The main reason for the poor use of these funds is a complicated implementation system which is very likely to need to be simplified. Minister Plosteiner has invested a lot of energy, and we have helped her to work as effectively as possible, with as few problems as possible. In this context, in particular, a normally functioning ISAR information system has been established. This was not put in place in time, and there was insufficient resources involved in setting it up, which was an additional obstacle to speeding up the use of these funds. I think it has matured to realize that some projects will need to be simplified. As it is said, some finance from the budget and some from European funds, particularly to a greater extent, to bear the appropriate administrative costs required by such a project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u145	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u146	From these questions, around which we have been around this week, as I have already said, quite a lot, and from these answers after this complexity, after the multitude of projects and after the ambition of major projects and after the absorption and implementation of small projects from the state budget level, I think there is also a great trap in this project, because in reviewing the financial potential of the Republic of Slovenia's budget, when we look at how much resources remain available for investment, when we also use that part of our own resources needed for parity in European projects, I am afraid that unfortunately these small projects will be scattered across Slovenia and have a significant impact on shutting down the situation even in these difficult times throughout Slovenia, that they will remain insolvent and will not actually be able to find enough financial resources within the budget for the execution of such funds. And that, after this turn and when we just figure out these shortcomings, we're actually going to focus on some big projects. However, the experience here is that the resources from cohesion funds will be from the means to address structural differences, precisely so that those restricted areas progress more quickly, so that they will happen in the opposite direction, in order to bind themselves to large projects. That is why I think and expect simplifications in procedures, what has been well done by the Minister: the promotion of certain funds, as soon as possible payments, the increased share of co-financing, and by no means the fact that it will happen will [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] funds will be put into a few smaller projects, and in this way the concept of these very quality funds will change completely and there will be a concentration of these funds on large projects in urban centres. [[...]] If it's going this way, I think it's a mistake, and I hope it doesn't happen, and that's the question. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u147	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Certainly it is not just a matter of concentration on some major projects. That's the other side of the medal. If all is placed on one major project and it does not obtain a location permit, there may be an even greater deadlock in pumping than if these projects are properly dispersed. There is a need to find an appropriate measure where projects are such that they are completely local in nature, they need to be linked in some way, administratively linked, and thus also allow for an appropriate administrative, as I would say, quality of management of this project and uniform supervision so that local investments also have their own resources from European resources. If this is not possible, it is better to cover it from budgetary resources, where it is necessary to react to a road and similar or water supply, than in some complicated system that is virtually impossible to enforce administratively within a reasonable period of time. This is the mission ahead of us. We are doing our best to resolve the matter in this complicated system, as it is, and to bring it to a surplus. We've taken it all the way to the surplus, but we're not doing it right now. We believe that some regional projects will, however, need to be put at the forefront of enabling an appropriate standard or infrastructure for the particular region that needs this infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u149	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u150	Yesterday and these days we have indeed heard, and all of us sitting in this Chamber are firmly convinced that the development of Slovenia in the coming years is also highly dependent on the quality of European funds. I therefore propose that, on the basis of the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we hold a debate in the National Assembly, where, on the basis of all these findings and experiences, we agree on a common way in this House to establish a system of drawing on cohesion funds in the Republic of Slovenia. I propose that we hold this debate, vote on it, and then also successfully draw the path of drawing on European funds with the new Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u151	Thank you. Mr Bogovic's proposal that the National Assembly hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance to his question, the National Assembly will decide today in the framework of the votes, which is 10 minutes after the end of point 1. Mr Milan Čadež will now ask the Minister of Transport a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u152	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Nice greeting, Mr. Secretary, colleagues, colleagues. It will soon be one year before we listened to the Minister at his presentation, and there were also many words about the fourth development axis. In view of the budget plan itself over the coming years, we can see that these activities are somehow walking. In particular, I would like to refer to the diocese, which is part of the 4th developmental axis. I've already asked you two questions and I've also received two answers that I've been partially satisfied with. I was alone in Škofja Loka this week when a civil initiative against the bypass convened a round table and they were drawing such and different opinions. I have found that the Civil Initiative seeks to achieve something that is contrary to the project adopted on the municipal council as a national location plan. We have also both found that we have too much legislation to place roads and routes in. On the round table, I explained that with this project, which was approved in the municipal council, we have run for European funds and cannot change it. I would like to ask you, Mr. Minister: When are you going to submit legislation to the National Assembly to avoid such inconveniences as in the diocese area for more than 30 years? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u153	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u154	If you'll excuse me, I'm going to put a picture of the situation on the fourth development axis in the work that you're most interested in, and then I'm going to answer that last question of yours in the end. The update of the road connection R-1/210 from Želen to Škofje Loka is in the following condition. The modernisation of the Cerkno-Hotavlje section is in the stage of preparation of the DPN. In early 2008 the results of the variant study were presented to the municipalities of Cerkno and Gorenje Vas-Poljane. The municipality of Cerkno did not agree with the proposed variant and the municipality of Gorenje vas-Poljane requested further verification of the variant by breaking into the Idrijca Valley. A supplementary study of variants is currently being developed, which will be presented again to both municipalities after the audit. Gorenje Vodnica is in the process of placing you in the room, preparing the municipal detailed spatial plan, predicting a public decomposition at the beginning of 2010 and a decree on the adoption of the OPPN in the second half of 2010. Under this plan, construction could start in 2012. The Polish bypass of Škofje Loke is foreseen in three phases. The first phase from the intersection with the Ljubljana road to the new tunnel near Pustal, the second phase through the tunnel and the third phase from the exit of the tunnel to the new intersection in Zminac. The first phase was divided into four stages due to difficulties in purchasing land and decommissioning. The first step is a intersection with Ljubljana, which has already been implemented, the third step covers a section where the partition is taking place, the second and fourth stages are the subject of a building permit which has been revoked by the Administrative Court. By judgment, the administrative court granted the construction decision for the second and fourth stages of the first phase of the Polish bond, the building permit number being 351/141/2007 with 14. 11. 2008 and brought the matter back to the first-degree authority. The construction works are stopped. A contract has already been concluded for the implementation of the second and fourth stages. Construction will be possible once a legal building permit has been regained. Only the necessary works were carried out to prevent damage to the site. The administrative unit of Škofja Loka is 18. 9. 2009 reissued the building permit exempting the area for which the building permit was revoked. The said building permit was re-appealed, which is now in resolution. For the second phase - tunnel construction is already allowed legally. A complaint was lodged against the construction allowed for the third phase of the section from the tunnel exit to Zminac within the legal time limit. The administrative unit of Škofja Lok dismissed the complaint to the second-degree authority. On the 19th. Ten. In 2009, an out-of-court settlement was concluded with the party complaining of a third-stage building permit for affluent land. On the same day, the party withdrew the complaint submitted to the Ministry of Environment and Space. In 2009, on the basis of a building permit issued, a contract was signed for the execution or construction of the second, third and fourth stages of the first stage of the carriage. The construction was halted from the date of the cancellation of the building permit and, as I mentioned earlier, only injury was prevented due to the implementation of the measures or interventions were carried out to prevent damage. What I can say is that I share with you the fear that, on the basis of the provision on the allocation of funds for the signed contracts for the construction of the second, third and fourth stages of the first phase, which, until now, will be spent EUR 531 000, would be in danger of these numerous complaints. If we can continue with the parts in 2010, then the European funds are not questionable. In the event of a prolonged interruption, it may even happen that we will have this decision overturned. I will do my utmost to ensure that this section continues as soon as possible, but I must say that these are administrative procedures and procedures for an administrative dispute that are not directly [[..]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] at my ministry and I am not proposing for these procedures. [[...]] I can suggest to the competent ministers that these things change, but you know, just like I do that to the one who wants to. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u155	Thank you. Would you like a supplement, Mr. Chadjeg? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u156	I would like to add to the question in this direction, because I am interested in the exact time when the municipality of Gorenje Vas-Poljane and the municipality of Cerkno will be presented with new routes that fit into the space and, as I have asked before, when will you propose such legislation to avoid such anomalies and inconveniences as have been happening for more than 30 years because of the diocese?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u157	Thank you. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u158	Thanks for the extra time for me to try and answer this part. First. I will hardly give you an answer to the first question, because this is not the responsibility of my ministry, it is the responsibility of the Ministry of the Environment and the place when these things will be presented. With regard to the second question, let me once again say that as Minister of Transport, I do not have the power to amend administrative regulations, rules of accommodation, rules of decommissioning and the like. Every time I find that there are certain problems, as we have on the bottom leg with decomposition, as we do by placing them in the space when we put the lower leg for 11 years into space, I propose that the Government amend those rules that cause long procedures or constitute administrative obstacles. That's how I suggested to the government that we turn the placement into a space for line infrastructure. The law is currently in interdepartmental coordination, if I recall correctly. I have also proposed a change in the law of decommissioning to make this moment more effective because two cases of decommissioning have made the completion of the lower leg extremely remote. I also proposed changes, not just me, but some other public procurement. So, the procedures we call administrative procedures and administrative dispute procedures, which are a problem here, are such that they simply have to allow a certain degree of legal certainty. I may also propose to amend these rules, but let me say the following in the proceedings. Those who want to abuse procedures will also be able to do so in advance and cannot be written in such a way that it would not be possible to use it to some extent to hold back certain decisions.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u159	Thank you. Mr Robert Hrovat will now ask the Minister for Education and Sport a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u160	Thank you so much for saying that. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is on your proposal, Minister, 23. On 6th this year, she adopted a decision on the abolition of the Public Institute for Sport of the Republic of Slovenia - the Institute of Sport and the Institute of Planica and at the same meeting established a new public institution, the Institute for Sport of the Republic of Slovenia Planica. To begin with, I ask you: What are the effects of rationalisation? At least this was the case in the media at the time of the establishment of the new public institution. I also wonder: What are the costs of winding down the institution's liquidation process? Of course, I'm also interested in: From which sources will the costs be covered and when and who has adopted a financial plan identifying the source to cover these costs? It is stated in the Government's paper that the reason for the abolition of the functioning and the establishment of a new institution is, I quote, "is easier to ensure the exercise of public interest". Therefore, I ask you to present us with precise comparative data in the form of programmes, measures and resources. The works of the Government also state that the public institution did not have the appropriate premises, which is of course not true, since a valid contract was concluded for the rental of modern equipped business premises in Ljubljana on the Danube Road. So you've had irregularities and deceptions recorded in the government's files. Now, I don't know if you knew about this, but someone was deceiving you. I wonder: Will the one who prepared the material also be responsible for these written irregularities and deceptions? Of course, when it comes to money or money, it all starts and ends, so I want to know: How many people are going to be employed at this new plant, Planica? Of course, it would also be good to hear: What has been the operating cost so far, and what is the operational cost to be expected in the coming years? Of course, it is one of the most important things to learn about the new tasks of the newly established institution. And of course, the key question, Mr. Minister: I wonder what the main reason was for you to go into dissolution and at the same meeting of the Government to set up a new institution? Thanks for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u161	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u162	Presidents, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! Thank you for asking. This is a question that is being raised gradually by the spirits of the public. What's this all about? The government founded the Public Institute of Planica in 1995. This was one institution that was established together with the Municipality of Kranjska Gora and the Ski Association of Slovenia. Since these two entities did not provide funds for the operation of this institution, nor for the necessary real estate, this institution has somehow lived until 2000 and has not been operational since 2000. The second institution was established in 2006, this is the Public Institute for Sport of the Republic of Slovenia - the Institute for Sport in respect of which you, Mr. Member, ask. For more than two years, there was a duty officer here up to 1. 5. 2008, probably because of the lack of clarity of establishment. The office didn't work under the law. 1. 5. 2008 was appointed Permanent Director. At that time, it is said that from 2006 until my term of office, this institution, except for the acquisition of premises and the fact that it had a director, did not carry out tasks under the law. This, of course, is now a question that I will not overwhelm. It says here that there was also a conflict in the law regarding the definition of tasks contrary to the National Programme of Sport and contrary to the Law on Sport, and also from this title, there were many problems which made it impossible for this institution to operate. Before us was a great task, which had already been undertaken by the former Minister, namely the construction of entire buildings in Planica. We didn't have the infrastructure to do this, organizationally. With this main task, we have identified when it was not possible to agree with the existing director in order to undertake these tasks, that it is best for both institutions to be abolished and set up a new one. What is rationalisation is, for now, the fact that we now have only one director, before we had two new employees, there were no employees, either, so that the material costs of operating, at least because of this, are half lower. The report is now difficult to report because it is actually just starting to work and the results are quite good. So, this director, this institution, runs activities with Planica, construction of the cableway. The architectural competition is now over, the results will be published in early November, so things are going well there and I am satisfied with the results that this organisational form is now giving. That's how much for once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u163	Mr. Croat, would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u164	Thank you. Now, Minister, is it or has it been said that the institution did not operate according to the law? I'm just wondering, really, the real reason why it was that he didn't act under the law? But this answer, in fact, suggests some additional dilemmas. You know, it's also very important how this new director of the Public Institute for Sport of the Republic of Slovenia was named. You, Mr. Minister, have stated in one of the reasons for the abolition of the Public Institute for Sport - the Institute for Sport that the Director of the Institute is not a doctor of science, which is a prerequisite for the functioning of the Institute. Those were the reasons. Now you've given me another reason. That he didn't act under the law. But where and in what document are they listed, and who and when did he accept these preconditions? Now I'm asking you: Was the condition for the management of the closed Public Institute for Sport, therefore, of the Institute for Sport Doctorate of Science, or did the director of this abolished institution have an adequate education in accordance with the statute of the Institute? In my opinion, as far as I know these things, he had an appropriate education. The following question is now raised if the pre-condition for the management of the Institute is the name of a doctor of science: Why do some directors of national institutes fail to meet these required conditions? In my opinion, this is a very simple matter. Here, too, you follow your new one, as a matter of fact, I call it an old paradigm that everything that the previous government has set up must be replaced. That's all I think. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u165	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u166	Thank you. Thank you, too, for this additional question. I don't think it's good to politicize this issue because, look, the previous government has set up a public institution - the Institute for Sport in February 2006 and appointed V.d. the director, who had a doctorate and replaced it herself or did not give him a permanent term of office after two years, but in these two years this Director seems to have done nothing, the previous government has already assessed it. After that, she appointed a new director, he has been active since May 2008, and nothing has been done since then, as the law imposed. I've met with the gentleman several times. I told him what the problem was, he should start working. He had some kind of personnel plan, didn't hire anyone. And we agreed, we didn't replace it on January 1st, one month after we started, we talked to him. The director of the Directorate also talked to him for a long time. And when things just couldn't wait any longer, Me and Planica had to move on and we didn't have the right organisational form, and he wasn't ready to do it. Not to mention activities for which the Institute has been specifically established, it is sport of young people and the production of an information system. That was all messed up. We have a number of people at the Ministry of Sport and Education who have been doing well since the previous term. And if someone didn't change people, then we didn't and there's no reason to make them, especially those who do good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u167	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u168	Thank you, Mr. President. In accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that a general discussion be held on the Minister's reply at the next meeting. Mr. Minister, you haven't convinced me, and I'm more confident now that this was just a frame-up, that you've mutilated your people. You haven't mentioned any other serious reason today, except when you said the previous director wasn't working. I just don't believe it. Look what really happened. By establishing a new institution, the government has set up a V.D. the director, Mr Gross, who is supposed to have seats at the Ministry of Education and Sport, which is its supervisory authority. The Ministry of Education and Sport financed it 100%, but the institution that runs it clearly applies to the public calls of the Ministry of Education and Sport and consequently has, I will say, a privileged position and a direct possibility of impact. In spite of the fact that Mr Gross is not an employee of the Ministry of Education and Sport, he has free access to all premises, given that he has seats at the Ministry of Education and Sport. Not to say who was all appointed to this new institute world. This, too, and above all today's response by the Minister for Education and Sport, I think it is necessary to hold a debate and finally get concrete answers to all these specific questions that I have asked today and to which I have not received any serious answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u169	Thank you. On the proposal by the Member of Parliament, Mr Hrovat, to hold a debate at the next meeting on the responses of the Minister of Education and Sport to his question of the mission, the National Assembly will decide today in the framework of the votes, ten minutes after the end of paragraph 1. Mr Iztok Podkrižnik will now ask the Minister of Environment and Space a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u170	Thank you so much for the president's word. Dear ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Current legislation in the field of Nature 2000 represents a major limitation of property, a lack of concrete solutions, especially for those activities already implemented in the area before Natura 2000, despite taking into account all environmental standards, such as skiing and the like. I ask the minister: Why has the Natura 2000 site become largely untouchable with regard to future interventions? Ter: To this day, how much we have recovered from the title Nature 2000. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u171	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u172	I thank the Member for his question. You know that Natura 2000 was also one of the conditions for Slovenia's entry into the European Union. We had to define these areas, but not only that this was one of the conditions for entry into the European Union, but it is that we want to protect our natural environment. Fortunately, Slovenia, as far as the conservation of the natural environment is concerned, is highly listed, also due to the high management of nature in the past. Natura 2000 is a special condition. I must say that Europe is also sharpening here. It wants these Natura 2000 sites to increase, not to block development, to hinder tourism, the economy and so on, but because we know what is going on at global level. We have climate change, which is also due to inappropriate treatment of nature. With regard to Nature 2000, I must say that, on the basis of the legislation in force, every plan or intervention must be examined separately to see whether it has a detrimental effect on the content of the Natura 2000 area. This applies, of course, to those plant and animal species which have made this area even defined as Natura 2000. And, of course, if the intervention does not affect these plant and animal species, then certain interventions in the Natura 2000 area may also be possible. I must say that it is not the right belief that there can be no intervention if the area is secured with Natura 2000. It is possible to intervene, but it must not affect those species which made that area secure with Natura 2000. I must say that even in practice we can find that in some areas of Nature 2000 activities can be developed if they do not have a particular impact. As far as European funds are concerned. Because of the Natura 2000 sites, I can say that there is a special mechanism called the Life Mechanism. Under this mechanism, 10 million projects were supported, 6 million 100,000 Euros of European funds and the remaining domestic funds. For example, projects include: maintaining the biodiversity of the Mura River, which drains Lake Cerknica, the information system was based on these funds. It's 11 projects. But I have to say, say Sečovlje Solina, you know that they have been hit by a severe natural disaster due to the high sea, that there is the value of an investment, if we really want a comprehensive rehabilitation of Sečovlje salts, which are of some special value, and it is right that they are specifically secured, not only within the framework of Nature 2000, but also as a protected park, we will report a project there worth 10 million euros. We expect to receive €5 million of European funding from this title, which will allow us to carry out such a rehabilitation. If we did not have this option, I am afraid that again, even in the future, from the state budget, we would just be mending these problems with Sečovljek salts. So it's not entirely true that Natura 2000 is blocking development. It is possible under certain conditions. However, in nature conservation, there is always a balance between development and environmental protection. I must say that at the Ministry of the Environment, in particular in the area of spatial work, we are trying to meet investors as much as possible when it comes to the Natura 2000 area, but we must respect the legislation and all the conditions that an area has become particularly protected under Natura 2000.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u173	Thank you. You want a supplement, Mr. Podkrižnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u174	I thank the Minister for his answer, but with this answer, I will say, 100% satisfied. Thus, public consultation procedures differed considerably between Member States. In some countries, the designation of the area has been accompanied by a good discussion with land owners and users on management measures. In others, only a few or nothing were consulted by interested parties. In Slovenia, I think we have given this segment too little time and the opportunity to actively participate in these preparations is simply a definition of the Natura 2000 border. Since there are no pre-trial bans on new activities and interventions to the Natura 2000 area, I think that it is necessary to proceed from case to case. This is particularly important for areas where certain infrastructure has already been implemented. I think that these are things that could also be much faster and better developed by taking into account all environmental standards. Tourism is one of the important economic sectors, it is an activity that has a long tradition with us and I believe that it is a very important factor in economic development in the future. This especially means now that we are in this crisis. I think that it is necessary to act preventively, and also this area of the economy, that tourism is true, thus strengthening and moving forward with this matter. Therefore, good development planning is needed, it is said, to define a common vision primarily for municipalities bound to the Natura 2000 territory. Here I would have another additional question: What are the concrete measures to improve the situation of people living in the Natura 2000 area and the parks themselves? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u175	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u176	Thank you. I would agree with you, Mr Member, that this public debate was probably too weak at the time when the Natura 2000 sites were being set up to hold an even more thorough public debate at that time. However, as I am aware, the period 2003 when Slovenia joined the European Union has been very hasty in determining these areas. We have some problems when we see that certain areas are defined as Natura 2000 and we know that in nature there is something different than, I don't know, a specific ecosystem that deserves special protection. However, I must say that there is no step back here, even we must take further steps. The European Union is demanding that these areas continue to expand. We will hold a thorough public debate on the enlargement of these areas. Maybe then, 2003, we didn't even know exactly what Natura 2000 meant, what limitations it brought. Because at the first moment everyone is for having a beautiful nature, a clean nature and so on, it sounds nice, you are modern, but when an investor comes when jobs opportunities come, we see that what I always say is actually a balance between development and nature protection. With regard to measures, what we can do. As I said, we are always very careful to examine what constitutes an intervention from the point of view of plant and animal species, which has made the area Natura 2000. And if we find out that there are no special influences there, things usually go through. But this, as I said, is always the balance between intervention in nature and protection of the environment. We're trying to be flexible. Such activities, which do not in fact constitute a disturbance for the area, we try to place them in such a space. We know that we have in certain areas of the cableway and everything that is necessary to enable tourism to develop. However, there are certain areas where this is not possible because of, for example, the protection of water resources or other specificities.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u177	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u178	Thank you. When I look at neighbouring countries, Italy, Austria and others, they have significantly less land under Natura 2000 than Slovenia. I thank the Minister for honestly saying that in 2003 we did not know well enough what Natura 2000 meant. I have a proposal or I think it would be useful to have a broader debate on the subject of protected areas, because the existing regulation protects the areas, but it lacks a development component. Thus, the development component is quite strong and I think that much should be said in this direction in the National Assembly. The Regulation should contain concrete solutions, measures for those activities that can take place in the space and thus ensure good projects and better European funding. I think this is really a very strategic thing, because I think that Slovenia can do a lot more in the field of tourism. We know that tourism growth in Slovenia is increasing every year and we are a few percent higher compared to other European countries. And I think that this would actually be necessary, because Slovenia has a lot of opportunities to draw a lot from this title and, on the other hand, to help fill the state treasury. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u179	Thank you. On the proposal of the Member, Mr Podkrižnik, to adjourn the debate on the reply of the Minister of Environment and Space at the next meeting, the National Assembly will decide today in the framework of the 10 minutes after the end of the 1st item of the agenda. Mr László Göncz will now ask the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u180	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, Members and Members of Parliament. We have recently heard assurances that the Employment Office is ready for the arrival of redundant workers from companies that have recently gone bankrupt. Although this has brought the number of registered workers at national level closer to the magic number of 100,000. Today, there are many issues in the area of social rights and other current issues. Among other things, it is known that some 100 million euros are foreseen for such measures. The question arises, and in this regard I have also been visited by quite a few affected people from Pomur, how to approach the employment and professional transformation of a population that has reached the age of 50 and has an education that does not exceed the third level according to the classification standard. How can we even solve the issue of this population, which has actually been missing for several years before retirement? Even with regard to the above-mentioned structure, the population has already been well published, but still many directly affected are looking for concrete solutions or at least promising answers that are often not found in the relevant services. I assume that, in the case of the above-mentioned population structure, there is a realistically narrowest range of possible solutions to the situation, which has become much more acute due to the in-depth crisis than it would have been in some normal or different circumstances. We all know cases where persons in this category with specific skills are not competitive in the labour market, they are simply "needed" by employers, so there is no doubt that the problem is of a broader nature. On the basis of all the above, I ask the Minister: Has the Ministry and the professional services been able to address this important issue with sufficient professional attention and, in particular, with the resources for specific content? I also ask: Is there sufficient room in the general social solutions and solutions that have been created mainly because of the crisis to address the above-mentioned segment of society, which is largely numerical?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u181	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u182	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ambassadors and Members, Mr Gönch. Let me fix the numbers first. This week, it tells us about the number of unemployed that 93,000 are still missing, and there are still up to 100,000, although unfortunately some want this number to be reached and often to appear. Data on active employment policy funds also ranges from 109 million to 109 million this year. Otherwise, I should point out that in the ministry, aware of the hardships in which workers and workers of Mura's bankruptcy process began to engage in activities to help them solve the problem. In cooperation with the competent services of the Republic Employment Service, social work centres, labour funds, guarantee funds, we effectively coordinate these procedures when it comes to job losses and, as soon as possible, we also guarantee the rights these workers have. Let me say that workers, at the same time as accepting the termination of the employment contract, have received all the necessary information and applications for the exercise of rights, such as: the right to compensation for unemployment, the right to exceptional financial social assistance, the remuneration from the guarantee fund. All dismissed workers will be provided with passive measures or cash forms of assistance during the first period and will be included in active employment policy measures. Let me point out that some of Murina's workers are already in the process of preparing and studying them to be reintegrated. This is a indicative number of 700 workers who are expected to return to work in the coming weeks or months. Of course, these workers will also receive the offers of active employment policy programmes. This is a retraining for other, different jobs for which their knowledge and abilities are appropriate. By Tuesday 20 October, competent centres for social work received 3,300 of Muri’s employees’ applications for 2,389 workers. This month, some payments of extraordinary social assistance have already been made to these workers, 1,713 decisions that have been positively resolved and some will, so that 1,573 of these workers and workers will receive paid financial social assistance this month and some in the following. Let me add that most are entitled to the full amount of this aid. In order to mitigate the consequences of this crisis in the area of Pomurje and due to the bankruptcy of Mura, we have also changed the public works programme for the following year, increased its volume, from €22 million, 395 thousand to €35 million, which will allow the additional inclusion of some 3,100 people, all of which would be 7 000. But there'll be a lot of them in Pomure. In particular, I would like to mention a project office that will be established in accordance with the law on regional development or assistance to Pomur on this basis. In view of the activities already being presented and based on the activities already under way, I would like to state that we have sufficient resources and trained professionals to carry out the projects described. We are convinced that with these coordinated and comprehensive actions, we contribute to the effective implementation of these tasks which our institutions have. As regards the mitigation of the social crisis, which is also accompanied by the fact that other forms of assistance are available for older people who may not find work or retire. Those who are in material distress, the elderly, can currently benefit from the exemption of payment for social security services, the system of monetary social assistance, the security allowance for pensions, the state pension, the co-financing of the family assistant. And there are other measures that I can give you if you have any further questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u183	Thank you. Would you like a supplement, Mr. Göncz? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u184	Thank you very much. I would like to thank you for the specific information which relates mainly to Mura or Pomurje. Given the circumstances, I am pleased that you can report in this direction, but I must point out that I am not talking about the number of 100,000, but that this population is unfortunately approaching the number of 100,000. Nevertheless, I would ask you in particular for an additional explanation concerning the population that I have specifically highlighted, i.e. for those who are actually in an unenviable situation, and this is the population, as I have already said, which is now over 50 years old or just before retirement, because, of course, this, in addition to some structures of the population, is particularly at risk. That's why I'm asking you: Do you have any data at the Ministry or do the service have any information for the past months, at least approximate, that could be some indicators of performance, which specifically concerns this population, of course, in terms of problem solving? Is the percentage of those who retire the largest, or those who are restructured, or is there any other information on the palm of their hand? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u185	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Once again, I would point out that as far as these older workers and workers are concerned, many of them are from Mura. They have several programmes that we offer. Public works will certainly be, but they are not the first. In particular, I would like to mention retraining or retraining programmes for other jobs, which are also quite a few in Pomurje, and the Institute is looking for workers for them. For example, workers in some social security institutions, tourism and hospitality, where demand for workers is high. And this qualification structure of these Mura workers would be appropriate with certain additional trainings to prepare for such jobs. In addition, as I have stated, activities are being carried out on our part to ensure that employers who will renew textile production on the remains of Mura, i.e. Mura&Partners, this is a company that remains and which employs a certain number of workers, intends to expand this production and we will, through appropriate programmes such as promoting employment, in particular the most critical groups such as older people, disabled people, long-term unemployed, allow the subsidy to retreat back to those employers. Or, of course, to those who will re-establish production here. So these programmes are, and I believe, that a large number of Muri workers and workers will make an appropriate use of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u187	Thank you. Mr Andrej Magajna will now ask the Minister of Health a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u188	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister Borut Miklavčič! When I read the work materials, draft legislation on health care and health insurance, I regret to find that there will be a mix of public and private services in this area in the future. As a matter of fact, since the transition of 1990, we have been following trends in the introduction of the public-private partnership in a certain way, which has contributed to the highest level of concessional activity and other policies which I will not list on this occasion, irrespective of how the concession activity is defined as the provision of a public service. It has been established that, while the same contractor works at different times in the public and private system or at the same time and at the same place, it provides public and private services and that the citizen can come from a public system and from a private system. As the new changes envisaged do not set clear gaps, they are only more sophisticated, I am interested in the following: What are the baselines for health reform? Or on the concept of consistent separation of the public and private sector or on the principles of the General Law on Public and Private Partnership? From these starting points will depend on the design of future health legislation and its implementation into life.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u189	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u190	Dear Mr Magajna. Your conclusion on the current situation is, of course, correct. Slovenia has had a number of years, like almost all European countries, an established public-private model of healthcare. It is a co-existence and complementarities between public and private health activities, which are reflected in three different aspects. If we analyse this model exclusively to manufacturers in the public health network, we will find that the law allows for the provision of healthcare activities or services by employees in public health establishments in the form of private work or concessionaires. In accordance with the rules, both may benefit from public or private employment, premises and equipment and may be financed from public and private resources. The proposed reform of health activities also envisages the future preservation of certain forms of a mixed public-private health model. In doing so, the draft Health Act is based on the guidance that public health activities must be a central vehicle to meet the needs of the population and that private activity should only be complemented by it in legally regulated frameworks. Public health will be given priority in its development, which is particularly the case at its primary level. The reform will primarily eliminate and prevent forms of interference between public and private activities that allow public funds to be channelled into private earnings, private activities with public capacities and resources and during working hours, which must be fully devoted to public health activities. Exceptionally, public health operators will also be able to carry out private activities, but once they have fulfilled their obligations to the public health programme and have the capacity they do not need in the public system. All of this will be possible through the adoption and implementation of the new Health Act and effective supervision of public health activities. We can say that, while maintaining the appropriate forms of the mixed public-private partnership with the reform, there will be the necessary and justified separation and delimitation of public and private activities and their more modern legal and organisational arrangements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u191	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u192	I'd like to add a few more. For I myself am extremely skeptical of this public and private coexistence, and it will be extremely difficult to find an appropriate form of mixing. In fact, for several years now, we have found that such an artificial and mathematically appropriate system does not come to an end because it is basically a conflict of interest. That's why I'm skeptical. And there's something else that's bothering me, which is why I've actually asked this question. On the one hand, we are hearing words today, and for the last time at a working meeting, a public-private partnership, even the Law on Public-Private Partnership, although it is possible to limit or even prevent this partnership in some way under the new legislation. In fact, I come from an alternative government programme, which, among other things, speaks of the fact that the provision of services through intertwining public-private services has so far been allowed. At different times of work in the public and private system or in the same place, the same operator shall provide public-private services and the citizen may switch from public to private system. And another, which should in fact bind - and I will end - the coalition agreement, page 38: "Public health activities will be separated from private health activities and legally prevent the overlap and interference of public and private health services." It was clearly laid down in the concession contract. That was a more rhetorical question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u193	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u194	The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia has adopted the Law on Public-Private Partnership. We cannot write in the Health Act that the Public-Private Partnership Act for Health is not in force. However, the fact is that in the proposal that will soon be in the National Assembly, that we have regulated this part in particular, that the insured citizen, who will enter the private system, should also complete his treatment in private. There'll be no interference. The problem that you have pointed out, I think that in the law we have given sufficient weight, in the proposal, to ease and protect Slovenian citizens, but in public hospitals in Slovenia there are many self-paid people who come alone. We have a hospital in Slovenia that generates 11% of its income on the market with foreign citizens. This is a private activity because it has free capacity. Of course, we will not prohibit such activities by law, but by law absolutely, Mr Magajna, we will protect the insured so that they do not exploit his personal money, but that he is being treated in the public system.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u195	Thank you. Mr Alexander Zorn will now ask the Minister for Education and Sport a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, there is a public claim, which is also supported by the Ministry of Education, that public education for students is free, and private education is supposed to require tuition and is intended for the children of richer parents, so such schools are intended to spread social distinctions in Slovenia. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides in Article 57 that primary education is compulsory and financed by public funds. The truth, however, is strongly at odds with this claim, and this disharmony is deepening from year to year. Parents of students in public schools are forced to make a number of mandatory contributions for their children from year to year. This year's economic crisis, which has been subjected to many families with children in education, will threaten the so-called social equality of students in public schools. My parents won't be able to cover for them anymore. Why must all parents contribute to their schoolboy’s free public school? Let us list some mandatory contributions that we can freely appoint for tuition. Parents of primary schoolchildren must contribute mainly to sports activities, cultural activities days, natural activities days, technical activities days. The contributions include compulsory school equipment, which cannot be afforded by all children, tickets for puppet, musical, theatre and other events, tickets for museums, for driving to all these events, as well as technical material for technical activities. For the Golden Sun program, which is mandatory, students must have ski equipment and rolling equipment. How much it costs can be found out in nearby stores. For summer school in nature, parents have to contribute to the sea and for winter in the mountains. For a bicycle exam, each student must have his own bicycle and helmet, for the school does not rent them. Parents have to pay for school security, paper towels, so we don't talk about disinfectants at the pandemic. Since last year, schools have stopped paying teachers who accompany children to camps, even though they are urgently needed there and their stay will be included in the price paid by the elders of children. Not to talk about school food. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u197	Mr. Minister for Education and Sports Dr. Lukšič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u198	Nice greetings, vice president and president. Member, thank you for your questions. The Messengers have a nice greeting to you once again. The questions that concern education are not only because of the department, but also because I am directly interested, very much because they put pressure on all those who think that investing in education is primarily the burden of parents and those who go to school. I therefore welcome the intention of the question. It is right to record all the costs incurred by parents or students and to look at what is a compulsory part of the schooling or part of the compulsory programme and to make a full contribution in this part of the country. What is superstandard; where I am warming up that the superstandard is as low as possible, because I think it is right that the mandatory part is as wide as possible; what is superstandard and parental, children choose in individual schools, and of course it is also right to pay themselves. The direction taken by our school is to ensure as much free as possible for parents as possible. What is being asked is, of course, concerned about the tendency in another dimension that has not been mentioned here, namely the issue of work volumes, which we have already discussed here. In fact, when we arrived at free textbooks, we had to pay our workbooks to the same extent. That's something we've been doing intensively. I expect that we will solve the whole problem of work volumes, textbooks and school supplies in this school year in favour of reducing the burden on parents for this part. Regarding the payment of teachers for a school in nature, I should say that the change in wage legislation has led to a drop in payments to the Ministry from EUR 120 to EUR 40. This is what the union has warned us about, and now we have raised this fee to accompany teachers back to 120 euros at the time of the school in nature. So it does not claim that there is no payment here, but of course it is symbolic, but in any case it is agreed with the unions. The funds paid by parents, of course, need to be taken a closer look now, say lunch is 55% of the children and the average lunch in Slovenian schools is 500 euros per year and 50 euros per month, per year 500, 50 per month. Now, here we can have a debate about whether this is something that falls under the burden of the public sector, whether this is something that parents should continue to pay. We subsidize Malik, indirectly also lunch, by providing everything necessary for the kitchens and also paying the staff working in the kitchen. I am warming up to expand the commitment of the municipalities and the state, only of course this is the objective to be achieved in public by some consensus, because we know that there is no consensus here. At least me and the Member of Parliament are here on the same shore, and I expect us to work in the same direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Completing the answer? Mr. Zorn, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Although I am satisfied with the answer, I still need to add a little bit to my question and not extend it to a new question. What I have said is that it causes a series of problems that are about: Will parents have to declare in their own shame that money for their children’s lunch is no longer available now that it is a crisis, and send requests to schools to keep their children free of charge, otherwise they will be hungry. If some parents have to admit that funds for all these activities that I have listed and do not have food, a number of psychological, social and traumas are beginning, which are already becoming part of the childhood education at the Slovenian school of today. With increasing unemployment, this is becoming a major social threat that will contribute to reducing enrolment in higher schools, because already with these schools parents will not survive, and, of course, to reducing the new population, because parents will simply not be able to afford a child who should necessarily go to such a expensive "free" public school.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u201	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u202	Thank you. Thank you, too, for this supplement, which further exacerbates the sensitivity that we share with the Member on this issue and the issue that is also linked to population policy. It seems right to pressure the Slovenian public in this direction. I agree with that assessment. I would be in favour of not only 35% of children getting free lunch, as is happening now, because this is exactly the problem that fellow Member Zorn was talking about. In fact, the problem of those who are in an uncomfortable situation or making an application. And it is a question of dignity, which I think is particularly important in these times. So I'd like to keep going this way. We are preparing a law that will soon come to the National Assembly to further subsidize nutrition in primary school. I'd like to go in the direction that this lunch is free, that parents don't have to play the role and prove that they can't do it on their own. But it is right that we are preparing the Slovenian public for the fact that children can by no means be a luxury and some privilege only to those parents who have good incomes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Mr. Zorn, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u204	Thank you very much. I would like to briefly justify why I think it is necessary to have a public debate on this subject under Article 246. Because we are aware that we do not have a free school in Slovenia and that parents have to contribute so much money to talk about the significant and even expensive school fees of public schools and so on about expensive private public school. It seems to us that now more and more that those few private schools that have been fortunate enough to stand by and against restrictive school policies have already become cheaper than public schools. Next, isn't it a forced collection of money in compulsory public schools that shouldn't be called tuition? Finally, of course: Can we still say that primary school education in Slovenia is as defined and guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia? We should have a public debate on all of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Your proposal to discuss the Minister's response to the National Assembly at the next meeting will be decided today, 10 minutes after the questions sent are concluded. Mr Franz Puksic has the floor to ask the Minister of Finance a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u206	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Nice greeting to all the three ministers you're with us today. Dear Minister, during the period of the financial and economic crisis, payment discipline has deteriorated further since payment deadlines have already been extended. A recent survey among the members of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia has shown that the biggest problem currently faced by craftsmen and small entrepreneurs is payment non-discipline. For craftsmen and small entrepreneurs, it occurs daily that large companies, with courtesy of letters, inform them that the payment deadline is extended from 90, to 120 and 150 days. However, if they are not prepared to accept new extended payment deadlines, they are grateful for their cooperation. The Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia has proposed a number of measures to improve payment disciplines. I must point out that because of the lack of pay, micro-small and medium-sized enterprises are most affected, which are also more vulnerable to many impacts. Compared to large companies, they are characterised by large fluctuations in cash flow and are often dependent on a small number of buyers. Small and medium-sized enterprises often act as suppliers of larger companies or subcontractors, which, due to comparatively greater bargaining power, reach longer payment deadlines and delay payments more than smaller companies. Let us see how the problems of payment non-discipline are dealt with specifically by our companies. Non-payment problems that have not been addressed: firstly, not even the Financial Operations Act; secondly, the Late Payments in Trade Transactions Directive; thirdly, the non-introduction of the VAT option after a paid realization. Businesses handle such matters in the following ways: they use reminders, they use late interest charges, they use black sheets, they use deliveries to stop or even to recover on the way to court. Large claims made by companies to other companies, both small and large, and often to the country - unfortunately also to the country - cause gray hair even to the most durable ones, and often poor pay by buyers of pressure entrepreneurs in poor liquidity. However, there are also few cases where the failure to pay, in particular, the larger buyers of companies even fails. Or worse, Mr. Minister, some take their own lives. Not long ago, this happened on the road in Styria. The least that can happen is that an undertaking that has large unpaid claims also ceases to pay its obligations on a regular basis. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u207	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franz Križanič, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u208	Respectable. Thank you so much for asking. The main source of the liquidity crisis in Slovenia is not a statistical lack of capital or money, for example, that there would be an outflow of larger funds. We have provided adequate financial resources on the passive side of our banks. The main problem is breaking orders. With the downsizing of contracts, there has been a disruption of certain economic flows, which have a side effect on liquidity problems, which the banking system itself finds difficult to cover because it has to have adequate security of its deposits. So how did we deal with this problem? In opening, I would like to point out that the Government has already provided comprehensive information to the National Assembly on the resolution of the problem of financial non-discipline on 2 October this year. The material was prepared on the basis of the conclusions of the Committee on the Economy of the National Assembly, which it received at its meeting on 16 September 2009 - it is said, in the middle of the previous month - and on the basis of the additional requirements that were made in the debate by Members, representatives of the Chambers in the field of economy, crafts and entrepreneurship and trade, as well as representatives of the employers' association. In the above-mentioned paper, the Government presented the measures already taken and planned by all competent ministries on the fifteen proposals proposed by Members to improve the situation in the area of financial non-discipline. The measures taken by the Ministry of Finance to improve payment discipline are very diverse and cover state payments, taxes and also financial insurance instruments. I will continue to take key actions in this area. State payments. According to data from the Ministry of Finance, the average payment period of the State for goods and services in 2009 is 30,22 days from receipt of the invoice and the normal account for the service or goods and 42,62 days, according to 43 days from receipt of the investment account. For investments, the deadline is slightly longer, as quality services provided must be confirmed. For the payment of commitments for investment expenditure paid on a case-by-case basis and for investment transfers, the payment deadline is set in Article 22 of the Law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and ranges from 30 to a maximum of 60 days. Measures to reduce the actual country's payment deadlines and the cost-effective use of budgetary resources include a project to gradually link the office's information system and the information system for the execution and accounting of all business events in the budget implementation process. This project is carried out by the Ministry of Finance in cooperation with the Ministry of Public Administration. With this link, we want to put in place an additional internal control into the information system, which will enable the chairpersons to obtain information on all invoices or construction situations received, thereby helping to establish such business processes within a single budget consumer, which will enable them to pay all obligations within a single 30-day period. Thus, quality assurance of performance will be carried out through information support in such a way as to allow for a 30-day deadline for saving investment services. We anticipate that the pilot project will be in place by the end of this year. That's the first time this has been tested. Taxes. With regard to the implementation of measures to mitigate the economic crisis aimed at helping small enterprises to reduce their tax burdens and improve the liquidity of businesses, Slovenia completed its request to the European Commission in July this year to increase the threshold for the application of a specific scheme after a paid implementation, namely for taxable persons whose annual turnover does not exceed EUR 400,000. The calculation of VAT after a paid realization means calculating VAT on the basis of payments received and issued instead of on the basis of invoices received and issued, which is based on the general arrangements of the VAT system in the European Union. By adopting that measure, the Government intends to further help reduce the negative effects on businesses in the face of growing financial non-discipline during the economic crisis. The proposal to increase the threshold for the application of the EUR 208 000 to EUR 400 000 paid has also been included by the Government in the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Value Added Tax Act, which was already adopted by the National Assembly days ago. This amendment also introduces a lower VAT rate [[End warning sign]] , at the level of 8.5% for service activities where control of the performance of the work is deliberately difficult and impossible. You know these activities, so I won't count them because I'm in a hurry. The solution is related to the implementation of the amendment to the Council Directive with regard to the application of lower VAT rates. In April this year, a new Law on Value Added Tax was adopted in which the VAT refund deadline was reduced from the previous 30 and 60 days to 21 days. [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] However, in order to secure payments, we will substantially change the currency regime so that the currency becomes a quality asset and can be used by economic operators as a quality instrument for securing payments. And this will come into play in a short time, it's already [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Mr. Pukšič, would you like to complete your answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u210	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I know some things, but given that it is a real problem and that these problems are getting worse, it is simply necessary to speak about them publicly again, and it may also have an impact in this way on the further amendment of legislation that would not address these anomalies, because it cannot be addressed, but that it would at least go in the direction of elimination. Mr Minister, given that I am also very much faced with such problems and these issues in practice, I would suggest that direct payments to subcontractors could be made in amending the legislation. In other words, it would automatically be written in the law if a principal acquirer has a business for that subcontractor, which means that he does not have it in his own company, that the investor would sign directly with these subcontractors by law - not a quality contract, one, third, this has the main contractor - to pay, not through the main contractor, but directly to the subcontractor. In short, nothing would have happened here except that order of payments would have happened. In particular, a few days ago, if a subcontractor wants to get a job, he has to start by taking over from the main contractor an apartment worth €200,000. The deal is worth 400,000, and the other 200,000 won't even get successful after the extracted material, and then it's dragged on, and then it's "not the devil that it has to die" and leave a burning place behind. Worse still, these major contractors are doing some big objects, then using them - as in Finance we have written "The Nest of Slovenian Februarys", various Thalars, Bavčari, Sénica and so on [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u212	Thank you. It's a big problem, too. It's serious. There has already been an attempt at legal regulation, but it has been too optionally set up, so in the new amendments to three public procurement laws, we are introducing significantly more coherent standards here; standards that will not only allow proper payment, but also require it. This law would then be on the agenda in the coming month, depending on how the college will distribute it if not, but it will start in December. Then you will have every opportunity to perhaps drink it further and that is one of the problems we will solve with this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u214	Thank you very much, Minister, for this information. With regard to the amendment of the three laws, it might not be wrong to make this debate in the National Assembly before introducing these three laws in accordance with Article 244. Perhaps this debate would bring some specific points of view to the problems that we are facing so that the Government can come more qualitatively with proposals for laws in the National Assembly. I propose that we make this debate, if the coalition feels important, then at five or seven o'clock in the evening it will support it, if it does not refuse; but I think it is a pity that it is not about any politicisation, but it is about concrete and really big problems. I was at this meeting of entrepreneurs who are angry at it - and then what's going on: a lot of black market! That is why it is truly the creation, Minister, of the fear that these entrepreneurs, micro- and small businesses with a few employees, will also start returning businesses and working in black - because they know this, they are capable. And in the end, who's gonna benefit from it? Yeah, not 100% of the country, because it's not going to pick anything up, and of course it's going to survive. But they have to survive in some way. I suggest we make this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u215	Thank you very much, Mr. Puksich. Your proposal that the National Assembly hold a debate at the next meeting on the Minister's response will be decided today 10 minutes after the questions and answers have been sent. Mr Milenko Ziherl, who had the question of a mission prepared, is officially absent. Mr Rado Likar will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u216	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Nice greetings to the minister, especially Minister Pogačnik. Colleagues and colleagues. In 1999, the Agricultural Lands Act, which allowed the purchase of agricultural land only to farmers and after the then applicable Law on Agricultural Lands, was the farmer who had completed an agricultural school or who was able to obtain the farmer's status as the one who carried out the knowledge test under the agricultural secondary or vocational schools programme or had at least 5 years of working experience on the farm. The purchaser of the agricultural land had to make a statement in the administrative unit that he would be operating on the property and thereby create an important part of the income. This means that the farm should generate income of at least two thirds of the average wage in the country. In this regard, I wonder: What was the procedure? Here I mean all the consents, all the statements and other documentation in obtaining the status of a farmer in such a case by the competent administrative unit. I wonder: How was the status of the farmer checked when purchasing the agricultural land? How was the revenue of two thirds of the national average wage verified? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u217	Thank you. Dr. Milan Pogačnik, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Mr. President-in-Office. Mr President, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament. With regard to Mr Likar's question, I answer the following. As it has been said that in 1999 the procedure for obtaining the status of farmer under the Agricultural Lands Act was still in place - I must say that this procedure is still in force because the Agricultural Lands Act is still in interdepartmental coordination, I hope that the second week will be in government, then the novels were set in 2000 and 2003 - and after this procedure the interested person has made a statement on the record with the administrative unit, as has already been said. It has only committed itself to cultivating agricultural land and will create an important part of income on it. Such a person also had to meet formal conditions regarding his or her competence. At the time of purchase, the status of the farmer was checked, still being checked as follows. In order to demonstrate that a person will acquire agricultural land, he shall be sufficiently executed upon receipt of the offer at the time of the sale of the agricultural land. This offer is published on the notice board. A gift or other contract is certified by a notary and may not yet be introduced in the land book and so on. As evidence that an important part of the income will be generated on the land intended by the person concerned, the person had to submit an opinion of the expert in the agricultural profession or the opinion of the agricultural advisory service. It is only an opinion based on an assessment of the type of production to which the person concerned has decided. I think it's still a very loose condition. It must have shown that the value of agricultural crops, as you have already said, would amount to at least two thirds of the total average wage per employee in Slovenia, which was calculated in the standard way of the average wage of the employee. As evidence of eligibility, the person who claimed the status of the farmer had to submit a certificate that he had at least a vocational education or a certificate of the agricultural knowledge test carried out under the applicable programme of vocational or secondary schools in the field of agricultural activity. So either vocational agricultural education or a test of knowledge. Where a person was over 30 years of age and has demonstrated with witnesses that he or she has had at least 5 years of working experience on a farm or in individual agricultural activities, he or she was considered appropriate and was recognised as qualified to carry out an agricultural activity. The incomes for which you asked were verified on the basis of the opinion of the expert in the agricultural profession or the opinion of the agricultural advisory service. These were the conditions laid down in 1999, amended in 2002 and 2003 and still in force. With regard to the conditions themselves, there have been many dilemmas and many questions in the past, and there are many possible implementations. Nevertheless, I do not think that the content is stable and therefore, in the proposal for a new agricultural land law, which I hope you will soon get in your parliamentary bench, we will tighten the content with the following two conditions: we propose that a farming plan for each agricultural economy, where the content and type of production will be clearly visible, including meeting the conditions for this, and this farming plan, quite concrete, will be endorsed by the agricultural advisory service. In addition, for the purchase of land for new farmers, we demand - for new ones, I stress - that the total size of land should be at least 6 hectares, as much as the average size of Slovenian farms. We simply want to professionalise this area in the sense that agricultural production can be made possible. This is said for new farmers: a plan and a total volume of at least 6 hectares. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Mr. Rado Likar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u220	Thank you very much. I thank you for that answer. This question, Mr. Minister, was raised by the Minister of Public Administration a while ago, but she referred me to you. However, I raised this question because, months ago, in the newspaper Finance, I noted that Mr Gregor Golobič, the current Minister of Higher Education, bought 2 hectares of large agricultural land in Vinjola, not far from Sečovlje. As it is said, only farmers were allowed to purchase the existing agricultural land law after that, especially since it was also a purchase of protected forest, which is of particular importance both ecologically and from a local point of view. This means that the purchase of such a forest was only possible for someone who used it to carry out an agricultural activity. And I'm also curious about this: Is it possible for you to know, Mr. Minister, that Mr. Golobič has ever dealt with agriculture? And: Was then - I suppose - satisfied with all the conditions necessary for the purchase of agricultural land? And also, you mentioned it, but I'd have a question if you would explicitly say: What are the conditions for purchasing agricultural land today? And: How long must the purchaser of agricultural land carry out an activity or generate income of the value of these two thirds, if any? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u221	Mr. Likar, you know that your question is not entirely a request to complement the answer, but it goes, I would say, to your soul. And the Minister himself will assess how he will respond. Here you go, Dr. Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u222	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Your Honor. Of course, there are 64 thousand agricultural holdings in Slovenia, which are kept in the records of the Agency for Agricultural Markets. And unfortunately your question was not so specific that you could now know the state and status of the agricultural economy, which, as you said, is managed by Mr Golobič. That is certainly no way to answer this question. However, the conditions you discussed have been the same since 1999, and I have made this very clear. Of course, we need to distinguish between working areas and agricultural areas, where the Short may also belong, it is a broader concept of processing and forest management conditions. [[...]] Even if there is a protected forest, it can be managed under certain specific conditions. Thus, this does not change the fact as to the extent of agricultural areas. The agricultural areas include forests and pastures and meadows, as well as processing areas, which are unfortunately greatly reduced in Slovenia. In fact, we look forward to every new farmer who decides to re-agriculture and somehow re-accumulate abandoned agricultural areas, and for that we also have specific programmes, whatever the case, this whole is then the size of the agricultural economy. This, as I said, was not the case before, and under the new law it would be, of course, if you would accept it and confirm it, at least six hectares. Just because we provide a business economy, someone can also ensure the stability of agricultural production in one area. This is still a very low limit because the average farm in Europe is 19.5 hectares. So we still do not achieve those standards that we would like to restructure the Slovenian economy in this way. But this restructuring goes on and on, so from 1995 to 2007, it simply stopped farming 500,000 farms in the European Union in the 27th century, but at the expense of increasing other agricultural holdings. I apologize for not being able to give you a concrete answer to this question, but I have tried in part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Mr. Likar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u224	Thank you. I may be in violation of the Rules of Procedure now, but I thank you for this answer and I will not ask for a broader debate, because there will probably be another opportunity to do so, perhaps under the new Agricultural Lands Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u225	Thank you very much, Mr. Lycar. Mrs Breda Pečan has the floor to ask the Minister for Environment and Space a question. Unfortunately, however, I must inform you that after the executions later I received a notice that Mr Environment and Space Minister has apologized, is on a business trip and you have the right to judge whether you will ask him as an absent question or another time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u226	Thank you very much. I will still ask the Minister a question, and I expect that we will also answer orally at the next meeting. In July this year, the Minister of Environment and Space issued a Regulation on the management of multi-housing buildings in which, in the third chapter entitled Division of Operating Costs, it provided, inter alia, that certain common costs are shared by the number of users of each apartment unit. In addition, in Article 28, paragraph 1, and paragraph 2, it also stated that "when it is an individual unit used on an occasional basis, a secondary apartment shall be deemed to be actually used if it is held for at least 6 days a month. If an individual unit is unoccupied, the costs divided by the number of users shall not be charged for that unit, which is not applicable in the case of..." and so on. When the Ministry of Environment and Space prepared the regulation, people probably did not even think - those who did so - that in our country there is a mass of multi-accommodation buildings in which secondary dwellings dominate and that the top-level owners or tenants living in these buildings will have to pay common costs also for all those who will arrive for almost half a month at least six times a year, the last six days of one and the first six days of the next month, and will thus avoid their obligations, which they eventually had to realize when secondary apartments were purchased. I would like to ask the minister: How will it address the problem of those permanent residents of multi-housing buildings who will be in use after 1 December this year when Chapter 3 of the Regulation comes into force and will be burdened with all the total costs of the building, although they are in a significant minority compared to the owners of secondary dwellings? In Isol, we have a concrete case where in a multi-housing facility where more than 18 residential units live only two old ladies permanently in this facility and they will have to pay the remaining 16 owners total costs for each month when these owners will not be present in their apartment for more than 6 days. Not to mention how their presence will even be registered. I therefore give the Minister the initiative to re-examine how such a disproportionate burden has arisen on the permanent residents of those multi-housing buildings where there are in most of the users of secondary dwellings. I am also taking the initiative to require my Ministry staff to correct the regulation immediately before the third chapter of the Regulation enters into force so that all costs not measured will be distributed by unit or unit, irrespective of the actual presence of the owners of secondary dwellings [[....]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u227	Thank you very much. In accordance with your request, you will receive an oral response at the next meeting. Mr. Vinko Gorenak, who is supposed to ask the next question, is not. Mr Friend will ask the Minister of Environment and Space, which, too, is valid for you, will subsequently report his absence. Here you go, Mr. Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u228	I want an answer in the next oral session. The company Finali Trading, Finali Engineering, owned by Mr Grijon, purchased the agricultural land at the border between the municipalities of Koper, Piran and Izola. The land, measuring approximately 3 hectares, belongs to the category of agricultural land of the first category and is located in the lower part of the Drnica river near the Koper-Dragonja road, which leads towards Croatia. In this space, construction works or construction materials are carried out under the cover of melioration. This is not the only land in which the so-called illegal intervention was carried out, which is now noted by the competent inspection, and it is not in fact the only place where the environment is permanently threatened, but also nearby is the capture of a drinking source where there is actually great damage. Experts estimate that due to this damage we will not be able to repair this area in the next 10-year period. Nothing would have been wrong if the Slovenian National Party had not already been reminded of this on 23 May 2005 and on 14 June 2005. Last but not least, we have tabled a proposal for a forecasting procedure on 2 August. None of this happened. In fact, at the time, we were told that everything was fine. Today, we find, on the basis of professional grounds, that there are many things wrong and that even asbestos waste has been disposed of. I would like to ask the honourable Minister, given that Mr. Grijon, as the owner of the most successful company from Primorska, was also selected in the selection of the second regional gazelle, and that from the state treasury, several million euros went into his pocket, I would like to know: How will he also sanction the matter by means of his servants? And; What will be the measures, or if it intervenes on a legal measure of prosecution? And who will pay for the rehabilitation of such a contaminated environment? [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]] Of course, we would like clear answers in this regard, because we warned the Ministry, public law enforcement authorities were also warned, and we cannot pretend that we didn't know that at the time. The Institute for Material Research also had essentially these samples in the analysis and we also submitted this analysis in the proposal for a predictive procedure to prove that strange things were happening there. I would ask the Minister to answer me, specifically: What's he gonna do? Will this money be brought back to the cash register? And: Who are these responsible persons at the Ministry? How will they be sanctioned? That's what I'm interested in.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u229	Thank you very much, Mr. Friend. In accordance with your request, you will receive an oral response at the next meeting. Mr Janez Ribič has the floor to ask the Minister of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u230	Thank you. Dear Mr. Secretary! In early April, the Constitutional Court decided that the second sentence of paragraph 4 of Article 22 of the Public Procurement Procedures Act was unconstitutional. It is therefore unconstitutional that the complainants must pay a double fee in public procurement proceedings before the State Audit Commission if they fail to comply with the complaint. We all know that these fees are not very modest, since in 2007 the amendment of the law on the revision of public procurement procedures introduced up to 600% of the higher fees in audit procedures and additional fees in the form of compensation for the costs of the procedure in an unjustified application. The fact is that the audit requests were slowing down the procurement procedures and the then government wanted to achieve that the tenderers would submit audit requests only in justified cases and not just for the purpose of delaying the procedure and for public procurement to be implemented quickly and effectively. This purpose has, of course, been achieved, but, as the Constitutional Court has also found, the amount of compensation for the costs of the procedure is indeed too high. The applicant for the audit must pay a fee of between EUR 2,500 and EUR 10,000 at the time of the application. If this amount is doubled in the event that the State Audit Commission decides that the application is unfounded, we will also receive the payment of EUR 20 000 of the so-called criminal fee. Such a provision, in our view and in the opinion of many, is legally incorrect and harmful for businesses. I wonder what the point is that the costs for the work of the State Audit Commission are 100% higher if the State Audit Commission finds, by its decision, that the audit request is not justified. If the payment of an additional amount is considered as a penalty for lodging an application for a review which it considers not justified, it shall be subject to the jurisdiction of the criminal court, since it shall not only decide on the application but also on the penalty. I suspect, by the way, that this provision stimulates the State Audit Board to reject the audit request. I also believe that the parties to this provision are not equal in the procedure. As I said at the outset, the aim of the legislator was achieved, but as the Constitutional Court has stated, it is also found in practice that this provision limits the legal protection of tenderers. Because of the unconstitutional provision in the law, small and medium-sized enterprises are the most vulnerable, unable to afford such high costs. I ask you: What measures have you taken to ensure that, at the time of the amendment of the law, harmful provisions will be removed, including for small and medium-sized enterprises, they will be able to compete equally in public procurement and, without prejudice, to enforce legal protection in procurement procedures?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Dr. Crusader, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u232	Thank you. As you are aware, this arrangement has been introduced in order to prevent unjustifiable complaints that have severely impeded certain procedures. Whether this arrangement was successful is a question. The Constitutional Court says that such an arrangement is not possible, so it will be amended accordingly. The answer is yes. The Law on the revision of public procurement procedures in Article 22, paragraph 4, states: "If the audit application is not justified, the applicant shall reimburse the contracting authority for the costs incurred by the audit. In such a case, in the request for review, the State Audit Commission shall decide, the applicant for the audit in the account referred to in the first paragraph of this Article shall pay an additional amount in the amount of the fees already paid as compensation for the costs of the audit procedure before the State Audit Board." This is the phenomenon that the Member is pointing to. In view of the above, the State Audit Commission for the revision of the procurement procedures does not decide on the penalty, but in its decision it shall decide on the costs, including compensation for the conduct of the audit procedures. Pursuant to Article 22, paragraph 6, of the Public Procurement Act, the contracting authority or the State Audit Commission shall decide on the costs. The State Audit Commission shall decide both on the reimbursement of the necessary costs incurred by the applicant in the event that the audit request is favourable or partly favourable, and on the grounds that the audit request is not justified. In the latter case, the State Audit Commission, having regard to the fourth paragraph of Article 22 of the Law on the Revision of Public Procurement Procedures, shall decide that the applicant for the audit in the account referred to in paragraph 1 of Article 22 of this Act shall pay an additional amount in the amount of the fee already paid as a compensation for the costs of the audit procedure before the State audit of the Commission. Therefore, in the present case, the State Audit Commission does not exercise jurisdiction over the criminal court, because it does not refer to punishment, but rather to the costs of the audit procedure. An unwarranted statement of the suspicion of biased decision-making by the State Audit Commission, which is intended to unduly pursue the objective of payment under Article 22 of the Law on the revision of public procurement of these additional costs, is unfounded. The conclusions of the State Audit Commission shall be based in each individual case on the assessment of the correct and complete situation, the correct application of substantive law and the fulfilment of procedural assumptions. Only as a result of the assessment in these elements is the factor that decides on the costs. The interests of the contracting authorities and the economy shall be as quickly and as effectively as possible to award public contracts. The fee for the audit procedure is intended to cover the costs of the procedure and not to penalise applicants for audit requests. The fact that it is not a so-called criminal charge is also supported by statistics which show an increase this year in the case of the State Audit Commission. This information also shows that the costs incurred by the tenderers under Article 22 of the Procurement Review Act do not constitute an obstacle to the initiation of audit procedures. The costs referred to in Article 22 of this Act shall be determined according to the value of the contract, the complexity and the scope of the documentation to be examined in the audit procedure. The higher the value of the contract, the higher the costs to be charged by the tenderer in the audit procedure. It is not to be overlooked that there is a high likelihood that tenderers who are able to accept transactions of higher or higher value will also meet the requirements for increased costs of the audit procedure. It shall be noted that the applicant for the audit application which has succeeded may require reimbursement of the costs and therefore not cover them alone. Reimbursement for the conduct of audit procedures before the State Audit Commission shall not be paid at all in this case. By such a provision, the legislator shall encourage the submission of audit requests with a view to ensuring that infringements are resolved in procurement procedures. Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia 2. 4. Article 22, paragraph 4, of the second paragraph, was not repealed. This paragraph was not repealed by its decision adopted on that date, but found that, in breach of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the legislator, it imposed the abolition of non-compliance within one year. The Slovenian Ministry of Finance has prepared appropriate amendments to the law, which are in interdepartmental coordination and will come to Parliament this year, and these provisions will be abolished there. The problem of irrational complaints will get worse again.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Mr. Fish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u234	Thank you. In view of the fact that I have now heard in the last sentence that the amendment of this law is being prepared, I propose that, because there is a great deal of this irregularity and the problem for small and medium-sized enterprises is hopeless, I propose that, in accordance with Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a broader debate be held in the National Assembly, with the desire to remedy these errors and shortcomings, and that they may also be introduced into the amendment of the law being drawn up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Your proposal, Mr Ribič, will be decided by the National Assembly today, 10 minutes after asking questions and answers. The word has magic. Majda Potrat for a question sent to the Minister of Economy and the Minister of Culture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u236	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished ministers. Members and Members of Parliament. In September, we were informed from the media about public protests by cultural societies that do not deny or challenge the payment of the copyright tariff, but do not agree with the amount of certain tariffs to be paid to SAZAS. They say the situation is alarming. They have repeatedly addressed both the Intellectual Property Office and the Ministry, but the situation is so that cultural societies feel threatened. Some individuals from their own resources pay tariffs because cultural societies are the ones with limited resources, often public, most often donated. It can happen that we will break more than a century and a half of the tradition of working cultural societies. From the work of amateur culture, cultural societies have grown too many professional institutions. I also believe that the nature of the work of cultural societies is significantly different from that of other societies. In fact, societies in Slovenia are the widest framework of non-professional and human culture. On the one hand, they rely on tradition or cultural tradition, and on the other hand, their work is also open to creative quests that are never accepted by professional cultural institutions. The whole types of cultural creativity with which Slovenia belongs to the world summit, e.g. assembly, festivities, contemporary dance, folklore, are entirely left to cultural societies. The reviews of children's and youth's cultural creativity are left to this and could also be listed. I wonder whether we will give all of this up, or whether we will try to find a solution, which we will not be able to find in the Memorandum of the Association of Cultural Associations in point 7. I ask you, Mr. Minister of Culture and Minister of Economy: Are you planning any legislative change that would respect copyright and, on the other hand, ensure the normal functioning of cultural societies? Thank you both for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Who's going to answer first? Minister of Economy Dr. Matej Lahovnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u238	Thank you very much, Mr President, honourable Members and Members. In accordance with the Copyright and Related Rights Act, the use of copyright is only possible by permission of the author and under the conditions set by the author. In the case of public communication or the performance of musical works, the authors shall allow the use of their works, mandatory through the collective organisation, specifically through SAZAS. This association is therefore entitled to the charging of copyright fees or compensation where the user is publicly engaged in the production of music. It does not matter whether any event is cultural, humanitarian, free, commercially successful and similar; however, it is important that music is carried out publicly, in public, meaning that there is a larger number of people present at the event outside the normal family or circle of personal acquaintances. Copyright is of a private nature and therefore the direct impact of the State on the amount of copyright fees or in such cases is not permissible. In accordance with the Copyright and Related Rights Act, the height and method of calculating the author's fee shall be determined by the rate of the works. This shall be determined by a joint agreement between the collective organisation and the representative association of users or, if not possible, by a decision of the Copyright Council. Thus, for example, a representative association of cultural society organisers with SAZAS could conclude a joint agreement setting, inter alia, a tariff for the use of works, height, or height and method of calculation of the author's fee. The conditions of application of the works in the light of the different conditions of use for which the payment of the author's fee or refund at the rate is increased, reduced or even exempted. So there's a possibility. Therefore, SAZAS could also, on the basis of the applicable copyright law in the case of cultural societies, take into account, of course, the situation of the use of musical works, such as the non-profit nature, the purpose of cultural societies and so on. And on their basis the tariff has, of course, reduced appropriately or the cultural societies have exempted the payment of copyright fees. According to SAZAS, agreements are under way with the Community of Communities representing the municipal public cultural institutions and the amateur cultural societies. So I understand that you're being set up, these negotiations are ongoing. The Copyright and Related Rights Act cannot be amended by allowing for the free public exercise of works of copyright for the benefit of cultural societies, as such determination would effectively restrict the author's right to public execution. As a Member State of the European Union, Slovenia is also bound by European legislation and in particular Directive 2001/29 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 May 2001 on the coordination of certain aspects of copyright and related rights in an information society which does not provide for restrictions on copyright in favour of cultural societies. Since the directive provides for a closed cycle of exemptions and restrictions, Member States cannot provide for new exemptions and restrictions in their laws themselves. If I withdraw what I have said; therefore, the Ministry of the Economy cannot plan such amendments to the Copyright and Related Rights Act, which would be more in favour of cultural societies, since the European Directive does not provide or allow exceptions to or restrictions on the right of public implementation for the benefit of cultural societies, nor can the State cut down to determine the extent of the right to use copyright laid down in the principle which I have previously stated and which is determined only by the representative association of cultural societies and SAZAS with the common agreement or if this is not possible by the Copyright Council.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u239	Thank you very much. I'm sorry, Madam Minister, but there's probably going to be an option in the second round. Mrs. Majda Potter, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u240	Thank you. I will make sure that the Minister is still able to answer a purely specific question on this issue. I would like to point out that no one objects to respect for copyright and legal provisions, but that cultural societies are probably not the only ones having problems communicating with SAZAS. That is why I have expected you, Madam Minister, because this is the response of the Minister of Economy and in no way different from all the repetitions that have been heard in those years, I ask. Since cultural societies held an extraordinary conference in June this year, at which they adopted a memorandum, I ask you: What do you think about this option, mentioned in point 7, that this issue, which is so acute, would be resolved in such a way that cultural societies are treated in the same way as libraries? In this way, the author's duties for the performance of musical, dramatic, dance and other works would be exempt, for which the State would provide the authors with appropriate compensation. They believe that this would not be contrary to European directives and legislation, it would also be a matter of respect for copyright and perhaps the authors would have some of the contributions they have received. It is impossible to agree that cultural societies would only carry out works of dead authors over 70 years of age or work of undetected authorship, as part of the activity is aimed at opening up new artistic practices. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u241	Mrs. Majda Shirca, Minister of Culture, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u242	Thank you very much. I think that the Minister of Economy should also listen to the answer, because further information is also needed in the light of the fact that he gave them to those we already know, as you yourself have said. This possibility, cited by cultural societies, exists and could be, by some example, libraries and so on. But personally, I think it is more important to resolve complex issues within the amendment of the Copyright and Related Rights Act, because, if we say that societies are now an exception, there is no doubt that there would be another exception, since the agreements between SASAS and users within their collective representatives are currently inappropriate. For they are not only companies operating in public or in local or any other interest here sad, if we can say so, or dissatisfied, because they do not have appropriate tariffs according to their assessment, because they are specific situations which, of course, cannot be taken by law, which my colleague correctly found. But it is also for smaller performers, who, of course, because they are not so monopolistic and because they are not so powerful, are also within the bargaining with SAZAS, of course, in a minority or in an unequal position. I personally believe that if you ask me now whether one or the other solution would be a more meaningful solution to reach out to the Copyright and Related Rights Act, especially with regard to the status of SAZAS, which we know is now a society, and which we now know is supposed to operate intransparency or that tariffs should be properly regulated and also harmonised within negotiations with collective organisations. Although the Government does not have in its normative work plan for 2009 this plan to amend the law, I believe that any initiative, any amendment, because there has already been too much dissatisfaction, especially those in the field of music, who believe that due to their special status as younger, smaller, etc. and not monopolistic and so effective, they do not have the right flow and agreement with SASAS, which makes us all a little unhappy.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u243	Thank you very much. The Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs will be asked the question of the magistrate Juliana Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u244	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs is one of the most burdened ministries in this crisis. In addition to the Government, this Ministry is most responsible for the social and labour security of the population and the system for the implementation of the constitutional provision under which Slovenia is a social state. At a press conference held on 24 July 2009, the Ministry presented measures to ensure social security for the most vulnerable individuals and their families. The minimum cost of living for one adult is 562.07 euros and the cash social assistance for the first adult is only 226.80 euros. There's a big gap between the two amounts. It means that those who depend on social assistance cannot survive. This condition is inherited, though. You predicted that sustained financial social assistance would gradually approach the minimum cost of living. In this way, in mid-2010, financial social assistance for the first adult amounted to 449.66 euros. The amount of temporary cash assistance should then be 308.06 euros. In view of the proposal to freeze social transfers, which I do not approve of, I ask you, Mr. Secretary-General: How much savings in euros would the proposed freezing of social transfers bring? And: What are the plans now to increase the amount of the minimum amount of social assistance to the amount that enables the individual and his family to survive? The amount of the minimum financial social assistance is also linked to the right to free use of health services to the full value of compulsory health insurance services. The status of the recipient of financial social assistance allows access to health services covered by compulsory health insurance for socially disadvantaged persons. Due to the low level of the minimum amount of financial social assistance, access to health services is also hampered by the large number of socially disadvantaged individuals and their families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Dr. Ivan Svetlik, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u246	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Member, my answer will be brief and I hope that it is understandable. On your question, how much, if we did not coordinate social transfers, would we save, was an estimate to save a little less than €23 million. This, however, depends on the movement of living costs at the end or on inflation, which is unknown to the end and is known only after a certain period. However, I should immediately add that, in view of the existing arrangements with pensioners and agreements with public servants, we are proposing for the new two budgets that social transfers should also be coordinated in the future by half, as we have agreed with the two groups. With regard to the issue of further action in the area of social assistance provision, let me say that the new law on money and social assistance, which is in preparation, namely the Law on the granting of monetary social assistance, will deal with this in a new way and also comprehensively. The draft law provides for an immediate increase in the minimum amount for extremely cash social assistance to EUR 308, but for those recipients who are currently or temporarily in a position where they cannot provide basic livelihoods, they are still able to work. For those recipients of financial social assistance, where, due to different circumstances such as disability, age and the like, it is not possible to expect an improvement in the social situation on the basis of their work activity, permanent financial social assistance will be introduced, so that they will be raised to around EUR 450 at the outset, if they depend solely on it. This would mean - and we expect to be able to introduce this in the coming year - an immediate rise in minimum income or monetary social assistance for these categories of the population. While a gradual rise above that level, i.e. EUR 308 or 450, against the calculated full value, would depend on how the prices would rise, because we will have to revalue these values, and also on how the minimum wages would move, because we must not fall too high with social transfers so as not to act unstimulatingly for employment. This applies to recipients of temporary cash social assistance that can be believed because they are working able to work and must strive to provide their own resources for life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u247	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The next question will also be asked by Mr Guido Kres to the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs and the Minister for Health. Here you go, Mr. Kres.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u248	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen of the Minister! I have a question, and at the same time, some initiative concerning the right to compensation for wages during temporary suspension from compulsory health insurance work. As we know, insured persons who are in a working relationship have this right, persons who carry out economic or professional activities on their own, owners of private companies, top athletes, farmers, provided they are insured for this right, and under certain conditions unemployed persons. In the event of temporary incapacity for work due to sickness or injury not related to work, insured persons shall have the right to pay for compulsory health insurance from 31 working days of work retention. From the first to the thirtieth day of detention, however, the employer pays the compensation in his burden. In practice, the system appears to be paid by employers to compensate insured persons for compulsory health insurance. However, the health insurance institution shall then reimburse the compensation paid to them on the basis of the application. This refund system is very problematic in some companies, as we know the crisis of pressure from all sides. Entrepreneurship is indeed in a difficult economic financial situation. Paying discipline is catastrophic. It is also very difficult to obtain bank funds. It happens that, despite all moral and entrepreneurial values, an entrepreneur is not able to pay personal income to an employee due to lack of resources, and the obligations of a health insurance institution are often paid irregularly. In the end, both the entrepreneur and the patient on sick leave are in an unappreciative position. In view of the fact that the refund system is implemented for approximately eight years, and before that, the worker has received payments directly from the institution, I ask you, Mr. Secretary-General, Whether it is possible or perhaps during these times of crisis you are thinking about changes in the system in the direction it once was when compensations were paid to insured persons directly from the Institute of Health Insurance. For I believe that this change would be welcome for entrepreneurs as well as for employees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u249	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, who's first? Mr Svetlik, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u250	Thank you very much. Mr Member, thank you for asking. I think you've duly summarized what the system looks like today, so there's no need for repetition. I would like to say that the refund system follows, i.e. refunds on employers who pay in the absence of an employee of the corresponding income. The refund from the health allowance follows a long-term or long-term practice, if not long-term, of this compulsory health insurance. In view of this initiative that you have given, let me say that we can re-examine it when we open one of the laws that regulate it. In this case, this is also the Labour Relations Act, which concerns our area. However, I must point out that this arrangement that we have today not only burdens the employer, but also favours him and the worker, on the one hand, that it encourages the employer to invest in safe work that prevents injury and also disease. This change in why this goes under the burden of employers in the first 30 days was introduced precisely for this purpose. It's a systemic solution that they know elsewhere. When there is a reassessment of this issue on the agenda, both factors will need to be taken into account - so that employers can relieve and indirectly burden them with the contributions they pay to the health care department, and that we need appropriate incentives to ensure that they themselves ensure that these absences from work are as low as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u251	Thank you very much. Mr Borut Miklavčič, Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u252	I would agree with the reply already given by Minister Ivan Svetlik, but at the moment, within the available resources of the Health Insurance Office, I find it difficult to present this relatively additional burden on the payment of sickness benefits. This is a matter of legal regulation, and in our view, this is an additional burden on the medical treasury.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u253	Thank you very much. Mr. Kres, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u254	Thank you. I have a different opinion. There is no additional burden here, but there is a simplification of the procedure in this sense that when that day is passed, it should be paid out of this cash register, because the cash register for the health insurance of this matter is reimbursed in one way or another in approximately 20 days. The problem comes when an entrepreneur is incapable of paying back, doesn't pay a worker's income, and you don't want this worker to lose his income. Here's the problem. Otherwise, the system is what it is, we will talk about it, but it would be better to pay it directly to a worker who is on sick leave than to pay for it by a company that can, at that time, even inequitable and does not pay for it. And that's where the problem comes in. And to take advantage of this opportunity. I have information from entrepreneurs who have also had to talk to your officials about this, and I must tell you that you have friendly officials who can answer well and are willing to help. That's what I have to say right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u255	Thank you very much. There are no complementary answers. The next question will be asked by Mr Bevk only to the Minister of Health. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u256	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! Among the most important indicators for the quality of an individual hospital, for example, the time to medical examination in the emergency ward, the satisfaction of patients, the number of falls from hospital beds, is certainly the proportion of resistant micro-organisms causing hospital infections. Hospital infections are also estimated to be responsible for 175 000 deaths each year due to the non-critical use of antibiotics in Europe. The problem of MRSA infection was first raised in the National Assembly with a question from the Member States in 2001. Two years later, I said in a similar question that hospital infections in Slovenia caused the death of between 400 and 600 patients. Dr. Keber, then, did not object to this information. I must say, the Ministry and the profession responded quickly. As early as October 2001, a first national study on hospital infections commissioned by the Ministry was carried out in 19 Slovenian hospitals and was carried out by the Clinical Centre and the Institute for Health Protection. A one-day study involving more than 6,000 patients per day from all Slovenian hospitals, with the exception of the Institute for Rehabilitation and Psychiatric Hospitals, showed 61.8% of MRSA. This was, according to some experts, the highest percentage, also measured in the wider European area. After 2002, the situation in this area improved. The percentage has dropped significantly, but we can say that we control this bacteria only when we get the number of hospital infections below 10% in hospitals. I ask Mr Borut Miklavčič, Minister of Health: What is the situation in the area of hospital infection management in Slovenian hospitals today? At the same time, I propose that the Ministry of Health, together with the competent services, prepare a second Slovenian national preliminary study on hospital infections. Thank you very much for your answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u257	Thank you. Mr. Borut Miklavčič, Minister of Health, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u258	Dear President, honourable Member! In your question, which is very topical, you have already given some of the data and answers yourself. I have these numbers that you said, and these numbers are identical in my and your data. This month, the Ministry of Health has had two consultations with professional directors in hospitals, reminding us of the occurrence of hospital infections and the occurrence of diseases due to the misuse of medicines. There are phenomena and I think in Slovenian hospitals the situation is improving. Hospital infections are one of the most important criteria in the preparation of the quality of hospitals and quality work project. Also on your initiative, we are already working on it to make a comparison from 2001 to 2009, a second national survey is being prepared, so that we will have two comparable results over a period of time and see what achievements we have made in this area. We have legislation, regulation, responsible people in hospitals, and another study, when you propose it, will go and will give answers and result whether we have been successful or not on this path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u259	Thank you very much. Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u260	Thank you very much for your answer, Mr. Secretary. I am pleased that this study or a new review of the situation in the field of hospital infections is being prepared. I would like to remind you that I gave a similar initiative to the previous Minister of Health last year, but at the time, neither the Home Committee nor the Minister accepted this initiative, so I am pleased that this time Mr Minister is acting differently, and that this study will actually show what the situation is in view of 2001, which has been devastating. I hope that the situation has really improved in these eight, nine years, but there will still be a lot to be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u261	Thank you very much, Mr. Bevk. Mr Mirko Brulc will ask the Minister of Culture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u262	Dear Madam Secretary, Mr. Secretary! The castle of Rihemberk in the beautiful lower Vipavska valley, the valley of Branca, the distinguished Madam Minister, we both know each other well. It's an extraordinary cultural heritage, but it's been without a manager for quite some time. The consequences are visible, the castle is slowly collapsing again, we do not know where the key to this castle is, etc. Because of this situation, the local, local community, three private companies, which also have relevant references, have also been invited to participate in the SAZU Research Centre, the Commercial Centre of Restoration and others. We also have a great interest in the township to revitalize this castle, because it is an extraordinary fortress in Slovenia. The group I am talking about has also prepared a proposal for a programme on how to organise cultural, educational and other activities that will be involved in the wider tourist offer of this beautiful lower Vipava Valley. Last but not least for the entire region of Goriška. Of course, it is essential to ensure the safe opening of this castle, which requires costly financial resources. Madam Minister, I have a very short question: What is the Ministry of Culture planning to do with the town of Rihemberk in Brannik, and when will this happen? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u263	Thank you very much. Mrs. Minister of Culture Majda Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u264	Very short answer at the beginning. When's he planning? In 2010, we intend to start by obtaining project documentation, that is to say, PGD, PZI, etc., and implementing the conservation plan. But you're probably not happy with that, of course. Logically, I myself am not satisfied with the situation that has been dragging for many years on this really beautiful castle, which has been restored in the past with the help of state resources. Perhaps if everyone knew exactly what the content and program of the castle could be, they would come further. But when I think back to the time when some of the local factors were economically strong, let's say Hit, at the time, there were already powerful computers, whether they were worth rebuilding the castle for tourist purposes, because they probably did economic studies that were different. But let us just illustrate that the Ministry of Culture has problems with the program not only in this regard, but also in other castles that are needed to rebuild or are partially restored. As here, other content is offered in one way or another, in-depth or less, economically justified or less, but more or less all at the expense of the State, which is supposed to pay the programmes that others are doing. In Rihember, it's five if not six interests. One, of course, is the local community of Brannik, the other is the initiative committee for the revival of the town of Rihemberk within the local community, I apologize, then the congregation, then the gentleman who managed the contract for many years, I am talking about Mr Vidic, and also took care of some of the interventions in the town of Brannik, and then we now have the creation centre of Abram in Brannik, which has also given us a proposal for programs. But there are also gentlemen here who have already spoken to the Minister before me to buy the castle of Rihemberk in terms of some content that would be both publicly and privately filled. Personally, because the discussions and the letter of intent, which was so much already prepared at the Ministry of Culture, with Minister Simoniti, and the interested person concerned about the purchase of the town of Brannik, I also met further, because the intention was not signed, I checked whether interest still existed. As we all know, the interest of a private person who had a clear plan, what to do and how to do in the castle, and how to allow public interest, because we know that this is also required by law in cases where private investment and ownership have occurred and I personally supported such an opportunity, there has obviously been a fear, a fear of discontent if this were to come into the private hands, the local and wider local communities themselves, so that some desired public interest is thus alienated. These conversations, as we both know, have been going on, and they're still going on. What the no doubt states is that what has already been restored must continue to apply, so we will go into the production of technical documentation and all that is missing. But in the meantime, there is an urgent and clear agreement as to what will be in the castle. Is this the content offered by the creative center of Abram? Is this what the congregation wants and sees here its interest? Is this what civil initiative and the local community wants? These issues need to be addressed and considered. Or perhaps also a private person, the interest of a private person who can be that he is still alive, that is, interested, and would be considered to face a public interest that does not necessarily need to be excluded.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u265	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Member Renata Brunskole will ask the Minister of Economy a question. I hope and expect Mr. Minister to be here any minute.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u266	Thank you. Nicely greeted! Mr Vice President, Madam Minister, Mr Minister! I would like to ask a question from the Member of Parliament, Dr Matthew Lahovnik, Minister of Economy. My question is: How will the Government encourage entrepreneurship and the economy in less developed areas of Slovenia, taking into account the fact that local communities have already provided the necessary infrastructure? Here I am referring to the accepted spatial acts for commercial trade zones as well as the regulated municipal and transport infrastructure. This is a problem that we have also discussed a lot at this plenary session and also in the competent committees, and we have talked a lot about this issue, each Member, Member of Parliament, perhaps even on the specific case of our territory. It is, therefore, that we are somehow stressing that we want the development of the whole of Slovenia to be as equitable as possible, and on the other hand, we are facing the very fact that there are local communities, and I am also coming from areas where business and trade zones are prepared, but the problem is precisely how to obtain potential investors or possibly smaller companies or independent entrepreneurs, not only large companies, so as to provide new jobs in less developed areas, but also to ensure demographic settlement in Slovenia as a whole, and that our young highly educated people, as well as people with vocational education, can have employment in their home country. Therefore, I am personally assessing that we would like to see any further encouragement from the Ministry of Economy here. Let me also say that I have also been tracking myself and that Mr Minister will probably also tell me today that direct direct incentives in this direction the ministry will give, but through the entrepreneurial fund. I ask politely for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u267	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, is a written announcement sufficient for an answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u268	That's enough. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. On this issue, of course, the Ministry of Economy can only provide a partial answer, as you know, consistent regional development is primarily the responsibility of the RS Government Service for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy. And you actually elected a new minister here yesterday. In principle, the Ministry of the Economy implements measures at national level that are not only aimed at less developed areas, but are intended for the whole area of the Republic of Slovenia. As a specific element of individual instruments, we also consider the regional development index as an additional criterion for selecting projects for financing. We also foresee a development index within the Ministry of the Economy, which is one of the criteria for individual instruments. Allow me to say, as you mentioned, that the Slovenian Enterprise Fund has implemented a whole range of offers for loans, guarantees. Of course, the Slovenian Enterprise Fund can also offer guarantees to individual regional development agencies, which are crucial for promoting development in individual regions. In terms of strict regional policy, it is implemented primarily through regional development agencies as basic institutions, which are placed under the responsibility of the Minister without a portfolio, the Ministry of Local Self-Government and regional policy. At national level, however, we are trying through these instruments, which are, above all, resources for development and investment projects from the European Structural Funds, means to encourage, say, the establishment of interdisciplinary groups in the economy, as well as to encourage the transition of young researchers to the economy, to give special attention to individual, even less developed, regions. The same is true in the framework of instruments, such as the Law on Aid and the Rescue of Companies in Problems, where we have already had, for example, in the White Landscape in the past, even when I was a minister myself, the case of Iscre Condensators, which you probably remember, where we decided at the time on a relatively large amount of assistance, precisely in the desire to maintain jobs in areas that are actually demographically threatened and less developed. And here I fully agree with you that these areas need even more comprehensive treatment than the center of Slovenia itself. Because experience shows that these areas are also less successful in applying for different calls from the European Structural Funds, because they are also weaker after development and are, in technical terms, usually less qualified for the successful use of these funds. This is also why regional development agencies play a key role here. However, this, I must say, is very different as far as efficiency is concerned, at least as the mayors and economists call me, sometimes they work very successfully and sometimes significantly less successful. I would also like to say this because I know that you come from the White Country and there are often questions about the fact that we have adopted a law on Pomurje, but what about the other parts of Slovenia, which are also less developed. My personal position, and I believe it is also supported by the Secretary of State, Dr Andrej Horvat, that it is also necessary to look at the Regional Development Act in order to verify, through this law, whether these other areas, which are also rounded and less developed, can also be provided for additional instruments to promote the development of this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u269	Thank you very much. Mrs. Renata Brunskole, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u270	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Minister, for your answer. I agree with you. I myself, as Vice-President of the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development, have put the matter as a matter of fact or as an initiative in the debate just at the last meeting - and we have also adopted a decision here in the National Assembly - on how to deal with and supplement the law on coherent regional development for all areas as quickly as possible. However, I have asked you in particular about what you have said to me, about the incentives and the drawback of European funds, and on the other hand, about exactly what you have specifically mentioned. If we're going specifically now, we're talking about White Krajina, and there's, say, Iskra in Semič again in trouble and it's almost 14% unemployment rate in the municipality of Semič, 12.7% in Montenegro because of the problems of the company Livar and Metlika because of the company Beta, where 11.7% of the unemployment rate, and this for the area, this sub-region of the White landscape is a big problem. And that is why I wanted to ask you about how you would encourage this, as you said, in Semich at the time about Iscre Condensators, there was once such a treatment, and I hope that this too will be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u271	Thank you very much. No additional response is required. We are moving on to the second round of asking questions from ministers and the Secretary-General. These are the ones who have already asked one question. Mr Ivan Grill will be the first to ask the Minister of Transport. Before that, however, I would just like to inform you that there are six more questions that have been sent so far, and at the same time the Committee on Finance is also careful to deal with the budget. Since it is foreseen at 3 p.m., I inform you that he will start work 5 minutes after the end of asking questions and answers. Mr. Grill, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u272	Thank you very much for the word, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, in Slovenia, too, we have recently faced numerous fatalities on highways, which are supposed to be one of the safer forms of motor vehicles. This year, according to data available, there have been five such victims. Also, in the media, we often detect warnings that the vehicle is moving in the opposite direction. Apparently, this is now a very common phenomenon in Slovenia, which poses a very serious threat to the transport safety of a large number of people using motorways. Unfortunately, it is likely that the failure of these lanes or the direction of driving is due to the lack of traffic signalling, since all those using motorways know that many of these parallel roads, which are entry, exit and traffic signs or signalling, can occur to the ignorant or under-careful driver in fact to change and also miss the driving direction. And the consequences of such accidents are more than obvious. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, Have any activities been planned? I am pleased, because in the last week, it was also somehow possible to track the debate on this issue by means of public information. Have you recognized this danger for yourself? Is it possible that this announcement of questions has also accelerated the search for solutions to this problem? I believe that it will be difficult to redesign those lanes that are parallel, but by properly or more clearly setting up traffic signalling, perhaps also some electronic warning devices that will timely alert or otherwise make it impossible to continue driving in the opposite direction, we will in the future save a lot of human life and also probably accidents that will result in serious injury and, of course, disability. I know this is not going to be an easy task, but I think that with the approach where solutions are to be sought, a lot of things can be arranged at some point in time. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u273	Dr. Wlačič, Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u274	Thank you, Chairman. Thank you for asking. I agree with you that driving across the opposite highway is a very dangerous phenomenon, often, too often, I will say, not only in Slovenia, but also in neighbouring countries. This danger, posed by such a ride, represents a special commitment for us to do so with all seriousness. In the past, the highway manager has paid considerable attention to finding a variety of solutions. And from here on in addition to this double sign on the ban and the one-way ride you know, sign II/4, also a famous sign with a reflective hand that we know from Austrian practice. And of course, in this way it further alerts the driver who has come in the wrong direction, even if he is transporting, if he overlooks the signs for a one-way or no-way drive, then he gets this big warning, a big reflecting hand with a stop sign that you also know well. Many exports in Austria have also been regulated. There are many measures in the world that try to limit such driving. In all, they are limitedly successful. I've been talking to my colleagues a lot lately, we know from a system of hedgehogs that pierced your tires, but let's say on Austrian highways where their hedgehogs were installed, they have, despite those exits that have mounted hedgehogs, 50 cases recorded when, despite the pierced tires, they've gone in the opposite direction. Thus, no solution in itself provides absolute security from those currently used in Europe. We find that there are common causes, at least as evidenced by this moment, the unacceptable psychophysical condition of drivers, in certain cases bets or suicides. I can confirm that, in cooperation with the highway operator, we are actively looking for solutions that will increase safety. I wrote a letter to Dars and ordered an analysis of the causes of these wrong entrances to the freeway. I look forward to their proposal for action, and then together, managers and the ministry, we will prepare measures to reduce these truly dangerous phenomena on the highway, which we are witnessing too often or everyone is extremely dangerous, as we have seen in the recent case, which ended tragically with three fatalities.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u275	Thank you very much. Mr. Grill, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u276	Thank you very much. I am pleased, Mr Minister, that you yourself have recognized this great danger to traffic safety and that certain activities have already been carried out. I also agree that many times it may be the result of a change in direction of driving the psychophysical property of the driver, which is then limited, according to domestically said that they can be many times faulted drivers, but I myself estimate that the result may be mostly weak or not sufficiently clear signaling, especially where there are several parallel lanes where the highway comes or is also on the highway. And especially if it's bad visibility, and I know it, I know it very well, I have to concentrate very much so that I don't have to happen to myself in case the direction of driving is wrong. Therefore, I think that we should be looking for solutions here mainly in better signalling, more unequivocal, even this sign with this big yellow hand is one step towards this, but still, especially in the case of poor leadership, this is not enough, because, last but not least, this signal has been present for quite some time in our space, but the number of fatalities or those who miss the direction of driving has not decreased. That is why I think the signalling is the one where many innovative solutions will have to be found, and not least, it is possible for some electronic solutions to alert drivers in any way on the highway or the one that misses the direction. Therefore, I hope that in due course you will be able to find this solution, and I believe that we will find it or present it in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u277	Would you like to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u278	I share this concern with you, and I agree that there must be ways to find this signalling so that it will certainly be clear enough not to be caused by the signalling, it is due to road signs that someone would take the wrong path. In this sense, your warning is to re-examine all signals. However, I think that the new security authority that we are setting up next year, which will bring together in one body all those involved in road safety in the Republic of Slovenia, with this synergy, will lead to an even more intensive, more serious, more professional and even more qualitative approach to transport safety than we have done to date. However, I would say that a large part of the work will also have to be done by the participants in transport. Even such good technical solutions, such good signalling, will not help with good infrastructure measures unless the drivers are absolutely focused on driving. Remember, you've already happened to drive from one point to another, and you've actually forgotten how you got here because our thoughts are flooding. So driving is the most dangerous activity in a normal human life that he is doing today. And also these more than 200 victims this year, fortunately in a slightly smaller percentage this year, the trend has been declining for some time, with changes in legislation, severe punishment, many of the actions we are doing at the Ministry. We continue what we have done before. All of this is just helping to make people realize that traffic is actually the most dangerous thing to do for a normal person, and it is not even aware of it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u279	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Černač will put a question to the Secretary-General of the Government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u280	Your Honor! My question has to do with economy, especially whether the Government and the ruling know what this concept means. Soon it will be a year since Falcone stands, not without costs. Only lost rent in a year will be a million 500 thousand dollars. Last year, December 8, you were informed by the tenant that the contract would not be renewed. The contract signed at the time of the Government of Rob for monthly rent of $125 000 for five years contained an interesting clause: Slovenia could not terminate the contract prematurely, i.e. before five years had passed, the right of interruption as well as the right of possible extension was reserved exclusively to the tenant. In addition to the loss of rental income, which is almost a year away, additional costs have been incurred, by parking and chartering an aircraft in America, by paying insurance, by the cost of a team that has repeatedly flown to America, by the cost of lawyers, by the cost of security that the tenant has not paid in full, by repairing in Switzerland, by paying a tax of several million dollars when the plane landed in Slovenia, and, of course, by indirect costs, i.e. the costs of air transport by the Government, the President of the State, by the ministries that had to hire other aircraft. The year will soon be around, the falcon stands, the costs are rising, the tides are gone. I am therefore interested in the total cost of Falcone in this year, as well as the indirect loss of rent in a year. How much do you think the extra costs are? In addition, I am interested in the total cost of all government, ministries, the President of the State and other indirect and direct budgetary users in the last year. And I would ask you not to give me the same answer as I did in May this year when you gave me three summers, but you let go of the point. The essence is: how much are the total costs of all those who have in any way flown to state costs in the last year, regardless of which chair the Government, ministries, president of the country or other budgetary users are sitting in? I am also interested in the cost of using protocol facilities in the last year. And I wonder: how much has the country lost on rent for empty apartments and how much has the country paid for these empty apartments in the last year for operating costs and other costs that bear empty apartments? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u281	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Milan Squeakle, Secretary General of the Government, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u282	Mr Vice President, Members and Members of Parliament! Mr Member, thank you for your questions. First of all, as Secretary-General of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, I am not fully responsible for the answers to all the questions raised. So I will answer those questions that I am responsible for, and on some of the answers, when the government examines the report, you and the Slovenian public will receive written information in full. First of all, this implicit issue of the economy and costs of official travel. Best of all, we don't use falcon. The thesis here is, if you lose, when you don't use falcon, at the same time, the resources travel. There is no doubt, and that is why the previous government has also decided to rent falcon, that the investment in rent was not the best investment. In particular, because the structure of the use of government flights, including the President of the Republic, is such that similar aircraft are rarely hired. In this regard, it must be said that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which took office in November last year, has already adopted several conclusions in the first months, among which it is important that we have also amended the Regulation on reimbursement of the costs of official travel and have said that flights abroad are subject to a regular airline line. While a special aircraft may be rented only in exceptional circumstances or in further defined conditions, unless the rental of an aircraft requires less than a regular line. And here's the key to this story. Very rarely, except in cases where there are no regular lines such as this meeting of the European Council in Luxembourg and very rarely when the lines are so difficult to connect, the cost of renting a private aircraft is lower than the cost of buying regular airline tickets. If the government had started to use falcon, for example, to the extent that you imply, the total cost of this would have been higher. With regard to the costs of official travel, I can tell you what you already know in the National Assembly a few weeks ago when we sent you the 2009 budget implementation report, how much these costs are. And the key to these costs for travel expenses is their relationship with the past. In the first half of 2008, the cost of official travel for all direct budget users was 16.3 million. Of which, for transport costs abroad, 2.6 million, for transport costs in the country, eighty-nine thousand. In the first half of 2009, the government reduced the cost from 16 million to 61% of that amount, which is 9.9 million. These are the facts. The reason for this is in the amended Regulation and in the decision of the Government from February, by which we reduced the number of visits by representatives of the Government abroad, so that the number of visits decreases and that delegations decrease to the most urgent composition. In the case of meetings in Brussels and Luxembourg, of course, this delegation includes, to a greater extent, those who are already physically represented by the Republic of Slovenia in Brussels. That's why, of course, this 61% index. And this 61% index is a reflection of the economy of this government. With regard to protocol facilities, just for a little while. In 2004, 2005 and 2006, an average of 2.1m euros was invested in the renewal of protocol facilities alone. In order to restore the same scope of the protocol facilities and the built-in congress centre, the government invested seven times less: €300,000. This also reflects the economic activity of this government. And that's why I'm concluding. You will receive accurate information about Falcon after the report has been adopted, and we are more rational, more cost-effective than in the past with regard to the costs of service travel and protocol facilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u283	Thank you very much. Mr. Chernač, I will immediately give you the opportunity to request a further reply. Just an explanation for my colleagues and colleagues: it's three o'clock, we've been kind of gravely planning to be able to finish questions and votes by then. Of course that didn't happen. Therefore, we continue with the parliamentary questions and later the votes. Of course, the Committee on Finance will start its meeting later, about ten or fifteen minutes after the meeting of the National Assembly. Please, Mr. Chernač, request for a reply. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u284	Of course, I did not get an answer to the basic question. The first and essential question was: How much does the falcon that stands cost us? The answer was that the most expensive thing is not to use it. And I say, the most expensive thing is to stand. I told you that only in a year did the income out of the lease amount to a million five hundred thousand dollars. With regard to official travel, you forgot something that happened last year in the first half of the year when Slovenia chaired the European Union. The scope of the activity during that period is not comparable to that of this year. In addition, a number of infrastructure facilities that remained permanently and were indirectly linked to the Presidency of the European Union were created during that period, making these costs incompatible. I don't know what the rationality rate is for a two-day flight of the president of the country by a plane leased over 90,000 euros from the bathroom to Bosnia? Does this also fall within this rational framework of savings in public administration or perhaps elsewhere? The investment in falcon was not the best investment, it was said, we all agree, but you were part of the then ruling LDS coalition when this plane was purchased. I am not talking about whether you may have been responsible for this, but you are now directly responsible for the damage that this Falcon is doing to the taxpayers of this country every day. And these costs, according to my assessment, with all that had to be paid in connection with this Falcon, are for a few million euros. Not for a few thousand or a few hundred thousand euros. These costs are for several million euros: rent losses, garages in America, detained security, repairs and repairs in Switzerland. I think five times a team flew to watch this plane bring him back. That's why I'm asking you to be more specific to me. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] answer these questions. [[...]] And also on the question: How much do you lose each year at the expense of unpaid rents or rents for empty apartments? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u285	Thank you very much. Please, Secretary General of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u286	Mr. Chernač, I said it was best not to use falcona at the moment. It would be good if we could sell the falcon. It would be good if you sold the falcon you claimed to be the wrong investment during your government's term. The lease agreement did not prevent the sale of the aircraft, only General Maritime Corporation would hire this aircraft from another property. The crisis has landed on hundreds of similar aircraft like Falcone. There's an invitation to tender, we have some offers. When the invitation to tender is concluded, we will see whether Falcone can be leased or not to be leased or whether it can be verified as a form, in citing, 'licence or disqualification' of State aid as a recapitalisation of the Slovenian airline. The fact is, at the time of prosperity, if you thought the plane was a bad investment, and I believe that before the 2008 elections you thought you could win 2008, you would have gotten rid of the plane, you would have sold it. At the time of the plane crisis, it cannot be sold unless we sell it deep below its market price, which is not the purpose of this government. With regard to protocol facilities, let me say something. I wasn't talking about investments in the new convention center, I was talking about investments made in 2004, 2005, 2006. In one of the questions sent to one of the Members, I answered exactly what these investments are. And among them are very irrational investments, unless you estimate that it was necessary from the 2005 state budget to build a wellness centre in the Kokra hotel for the purpose of the presidency from the cost of the state budget. So it's rational that we cut seven times this year. Instead of €2.1 million on average in 2004, 2005, 2006, I exclude 14 million in 2007, we pay 300,000 euros this year to rebuild protocol facilities. With regard to expenditure on official travel and the idea that there should be more work trips last year because it was chaired. No, many of the Presidency events happened in Slovenia, all the so-called informal summits are here, so it would be logical that in 2007 there would be less costs. But there were no fewer, but they were up 70%, and now they're down two thirds. This makes it impossible to compare pears and apples. As for the invitation to tender and the flats, that's how it is. For the first time in three years, an invitation to tender was issued for unoccupied office apartments. I hope that it will be well completed and that we will also give up unoccupied dwellings in the final series of years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u287	Thank you. Procedural proposal, Mr. Blackach. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u288	In this response, excellent manipulations were made, so it is right to clear them up in the National Assembly. On the basis of Article 246(2), I propose that we discuss this. The lease did not allow for what was said. The lease agreement referred to the fact that this lease is not only valid for five years, but if the tenant so decides, also for the next five years. And this is a story that unfortunately burdens your present and former colleagues as far as Falcone is concerned. The story, however, that burdens you, is directly linked to you, Mr. Squeakl. You're the one who's responsible for this business. And you've been taking him for six months. The invitation to tender had already been issued in May, at the time you said in your replies to the questions of the Member States that the decision to charter an aircraft was because it was supposed to be leased there so that it would generate the cost of chartering, and now you are saying that it should be leased to a domestic provider. That's when you said, in March of the month in answer to a question from the Member States, that the only extra cost in this Falcon is $40,000 half a year's garage in America and so on. It would be time for you to take care of yourself. My opinion is that the overexpenditure of this Falcon is only a few hundred thousand, a few million euros a year, a million and a half euros of lost rent and over a million euros of opportunities directly incurred by delaying this aircraft's rental, which the Government has decided to do. In addition, there are currently more than 500 empty apartments in the country, with an average area of 56 square metres. If we come from an average rent of 200 euros, which is a low rent, and from a data given by a senior public official in May, which is recorded in the State that each empty apartment charges the country at 1,000 euros per year, then 500 empty apartments, ladies and gentlemen, have only been released at the time of the Pahor government, at the expense of the unpaid rent of a million 200 000 euros and at the expense of the operating and other costs that the state has to pay for these empty apartments, half a million euros! Total million 700 thousand or more square meters of residential area [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u289	Comrade Blacky, just a procedural question. The Secretary-General can no longer answer these new facts of yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u290	Dear President, I've been asking about this. This is therefore a question of economy. It is a matter of how Mr Milan M. Squeakl and indirectly this Government treats taxpayer money. Bad! If you feel otherwise, I hope that you will unanimously support the debate on the answer to these questions. Otherwise, I think you're only pursuing valuable populism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u291	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Mr Zvonk Černač to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Secretary-General of the Government to his question, the National Assembly will decide today, ten minutes after the end of the first item of the agenda. The question to the Minister for Environment and Space will be raised by Jakob Preseknik. The minister apologized. Mr. President, do you still want to ask a question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u292	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I asked the question. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u293	The Minister of Transport is here.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u294	Minister of Transport and Minister of the Environment. [[...]] Minister of the Environment, Mr Erjavec, apologized to me for having other obligations at this very time, so I will be fully satisfied with the answers that the Minister of Transport will give me. The fact is that the construction of the Slovenian motorway cross is being completed. There are only four smaller sections on four legs in the building. It is also true that many developed countries, due to economic growth, are investing a great deal in state infrastructure of different kinds in this time of crisis, both Germany, the United States and some others. But I have a feeling with us, according to the information I have that all these buildings are drying up. In recent years, as you know, we have greatly accelerated the construction of individual motorway sections in Slovenia. To this end, construction companies have acquired a huge amount, perhaps even too much machinery, which stands today in the backyards, warehouses, garages or their facilities. The fact is also that the adopted documents of the Republic of Slovenia provide for investments, including government development documents - major investments in railways, third and fourth development axes and many other infrastructure facilities. As I say, according to my knowledge, most of the preparations for these investments are more or less worth it. Construction has stopped, and industries linked to construction have also stopped. This negative economic growth is even more at risk. I understand that there are growing problems with placement. This is one of the huge problems in Slovenia. I often say that if we started putting a highway cross in the space now, there would be no highways for a long time. I don't know where the reasons are that he's not yet in sight, even from you, the promised special law that will facilitate procedures for placing line infrastructure facilities in space. Above all, I am interested in this part, which will, of course, allow these procedures to accelerate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u295	Thank you very much. Please, Minister of Transport, Dr. Patrick Vlačič.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u296	Thank you, President. Member of the Commission, allow me to give you a brief overview of the activities under way in the area of road and rail infrastructure. On the northern part of the third development axis from the A1 motorway to Dravograd, the most appropriate alternative route solution is being optimized. In the middle part, an alternative to economically unjustifiable options is being drawn up to explore the possibility of modernising existing roads when maximising the use of road transport. On the southern part of the third development axis, professional bases are being prepared, intensively at the section from A2 to Malin, including the tunnel below Gorjanci, followed by the section against Metlika and Vinica. On the other two development axes, individual measures are being implemented with the aim of eliminating conflict points on roads. On the fourth development axis are the Škofja Loka Oblast and Pod Klučem Gallery. On the third A axis, reconstruction of individual sections through settlements begins. In view of the phases of activities carried out on individual developmental persons, it is realistic to expect a spatial limitation of individual projects, our desire, we hope that it will want to do so by 2012 and another two years for the design and regulation of property relations. We have an ambitious modernisation plan in the field of public rail infrastructure. The modernisation of all majors is foreseen, as well as the modernisation of regional lines. The programme will be implemented over a period of ten years. Before the start of the implementation, there are three larger projects. Reconstruction and electrification Prague - Hodoš, implementation of the ERTMS system, i.e. the European train management system. We have two pilot sections of Sežana - Upper Ležče and Murska Sobota - Hodoš. Construction of the line Divaca - Koper on the section Koper - Cepišče - Black Kal will start next year. We're the optimists that we're gonna stick a shovel next year. The basis for the building permit will be completed by June 2010. Then we need to obtain a building permit and then, of course, we will launch public contracts on this section with construction. This will be one of the largest infrastructure interventions in the Republic of Slovenia recently. I believe that the dynamics of the construction of transport infrastructure should be based on the macroeconomic capabilities of the country, financially supported by the maximum share of the Republic of Slovenia, with the maximum exploitation of European Union resources. Where there will be no such big one, let's say it contributes to the national economy, and there we should start looking for different ways of financing construction, such as concessions and the like. The estimated value of investment in road infrastructure is over €2 billion and a half. Given that it will be difficult for the country to take responsibility or not to do so, we are therefore looking for new ways to finance it. In the field of railway infrastructure, financial resources for the implementation of projects will have to be provided before national spatial plans are adopted and we are actively engaged. And as you have seen, in the draft budget we have also actually earmarked funds for the construction of railways in the following year and in the coming year 2011. What we used to give to roads in the National Assembly will be given to railways in the coming years. I agree with you that investing in infrastructure can be one of the measures to drive the national economy. That's what we do. And I also agree with you that it is necessary to simplify the placement procedures. It was also one of my first observations. If we remember - The Dolenski leg has been placed for eleven years and, of course, this is absolutely too long. The law you're talking about is in interdepartmental coordination, which means we can expect it soon on the parliamentary bench. However, the second rule, which is also relevant in this connection, is a regulation that allows for land acquisition, decommissioning, if you want, and this regulation is also being prepared, is not yet in cross-cutting coordination. Here this balance needs to be found between the protection of property on the one hand and the efficiency of infrastructure construction.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u297	Thank you. Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar will ask the Minister of Health a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u298	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr. Secretary! The Ministry of Health, in its proposal for a Health Act, which was submitted to public debate months ago, stated in Chapter 1.3 that 35% of health homes no longer meet the conditions for types of activity. These health homes are no longer able to provide all the health services that the population needs. According to the Ministry, this illegal situation was caused by the breakdown of health homes for the purpose of granting concessions. In Chapters 1.5 and 1.6, the Ministry describes how health service providers are in breach of laws, resulting from a mix of public and private health activities. These chapters state, inter alia, that doctors provide health services in their self-paid clinics even in time and with the facilities that should be exclusively designed to carry out public health activities under contracts with the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia. The Ministry states in the document that health service providers use public funds, personnel, funds to treat private earnings. They're also supposed to work without the necessary permission. Since the Ministry is in charge of administrative control, which is intended to act against the perpetrators of illegality or illegality, I ask you, Sir. How many administrative controls were carried out by the Ministry at this time to decommission health homes and how many, as a result of the other above-mentioned damage to public funds for private health service providers? What were the Ministry's actions under these controls? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u299	Please, Minister of Health Borut Miklavčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u300	Dear President, honourable Member. The findings from your question - in Slovenia there are such cases, and that is unfortunately the case. With regard to your question, I would like to explain the following. The Health Activity Act, which was adopted in 1992, is irrelevant, especially when it defines the function of health homes. This has been established for a long time and this has been monitored by the Slovenian public. That is why the Ministry has started and is currently practically in the final stage of drafting a new Health Action Act, where we specifically regulate both the function of the healthcare home and the award of concessions. In recent years, there has been a major fragmentation of health homes and thus a violation of the existing Health Action Act. We would like to point out that the founders of the health homes of the municipality, the Ministry of Health can only exercise administrative control over the legality of the work of health institutions and private health employers. Under my direction, the Ministry of Health carried out such controls in the health house of Vrhnika, Kočevje, Metlika, Sežana. On the basis of past controls and the latter, we have found that some health homes are barely available, while others are not at all able to provide all of the existing laws imposed and regulated activities. I see no other solution than to settle this situation with the new law coming to the National Assembly next month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u301	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please, Mrs. Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u302	Thanks again for saying that. I'd like to ask for a supplement. Indeed, the documentation on the award of concessions at the Ministry of Health certainly shows the causes of the breakdown of health homes. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Minister: Will you act against them? The Ministry notes in Chapters 1.5 and 1.6 of the Introductory Proposal for a Health Action Act that healthcare professionals should avoid regulations governing working relationships outside the ordinary working hours, provisions of the Health Act and provisions of the Medical Services Act. It is a violation of those provisions of laws whose violation poses a serious threat to the health and safety of the population. Will you, Mr. Secretary, take action against lawbreakers? The Ministry states that some health service providers provide public and private health services in the same place, allowing for the transfer of public funds to private earnings. What are you going to do, Mr. Minister, to prevent this kind of spillage of public funds into private earnings, as the ministry's legal proposals still allow this spillage and damage to the public? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u303	Thank you. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u304	When it comes to infringements of individual operators in the healthcare home or concessionaires that are part of the public system, we act and act by means of supervision. What consistency and responsibility could I request from the mayors of the Slovenian municipalities who granted concessions and from the Ministry or my predecessor who signed and agreed to concessions, I ask for your help because I do not have this knowledge to know how I can act in accordance with the law against mayors and my predecessor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u305	Thank you very much. Franc Bogovic will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u306	Well hailed, distinguished president, distinguished minister, colleague and colleague! Slovenia, like other European countries, is facing a fall in the buying-in prices of agricultural crops and products. The fall in the buying-in price of milk has affected many Slovenian farmers, especially those whose agricultural activity is the main and sole activity, i.e., farms and farmers who live exclusively from agriculture. In the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia, No. 77/2009 of 2. Ten. 2009 The Government of the Republic of Slovenia published a Regulation amending and supplementing the Regulation on financial assistance in the event of unforeseen events in agriculture, which introduces the "de minimis" measure to improve the situation of milk treatment. One of the five key conditions for receiving the funds from this measure is that at least one member of the holding is compulsory pension and disability insurance from 1. 6. 2009 and the family members are checked in the register of agricultural holdings. Many farmers have long paid pension and disability insurance under Articles 16 and 34 of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, as their cadastral income is not high enough to be compulsory pension and disability insurance. Many farmers covered by agricultural activities under the above-mentioned grounds are also dairy cows. After the current regulation or measure, all these farmers and farmers, or their farms, fall out of aid measures, although they pay monthly obligations at almost the same level as if they were necessarily covered by an agricultural activity. My question is because of that clue. Dear Minister, Dr. Milan Pogačnik, I am interested in: Why did farmers and farmers insured under Articles 16 and 34 of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act fall out of action? How many such farms are there and how many dairy cows are there on these farms? And I suggest that, with an appropriate amendment to the regulation, correct this inequality. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u307	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u308	Members and Members of Parliament. Thank you for asking. Well, the crisis is, I will say, taken over Slovenia too, but we note that prices have been stable for the last four months, even in September we see a price rise to 26.91, so to speak, we are approaching the price of 27 cents per kilogram, which means that in cases where the average number of animals is fifteen and the milkiness is 8,500 litres, as in some other European countries, we would somehow go to a price that would cover the cost or this economic coefficient. But it's not like that. It's not. With us production is very different and the number of animals in the barn is very different, so this crisis in the dairy industry can still be said to be deeper than it would have been if we had invested more in restructuring this sector in the past, especially in increasing the number of animals on the farm as well as in raising dairy per animal. These are very important segments and countries that have done this thoroughly have these minor problems, such as Finland and Sweden, for example, some other countries from the south. And that is why the whole of Europe is working on how to help milk processors. Somehow Slovenia, too, has some European measures, you have read them, I will not repeat them, but there are some of our national measures, including the measure that you, honourable Member, have mentioned. It's the so-called "de minimis" system. [[?]] allowing the processor to receive EUR 7,500 in three years of such aid. Well, in this year, when the crisis is bigger, Slovenia has allocated 4 million from the source of "de minimis" [[?]] to reduce the agricultural crisis and, in particular, to milk processors and processors, two million each, this was regulated by the government regulation mentioned on 1 October. The criteria were, for each call, you have to have some criteria because you have to fit in to the extent of the funds available. These were two million for milk, we've only got another million de minimis assets left for the second year. [[?]] . Fortunately, at the last session, the Commission adopted the possibility of additional aid to farmers in difficulty, so that the measure not 'de minimis', but increased this aid to EUR 15 000 outside the quota. Here we have certain reserves, of course, if they are national funds, because this is not about European funds. We have calculated to try to mitigate this crisis with two million. Some criteria were made by their colleagues. First of all, we offered this; the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber did not do it; we have prepared these measures; and we considered that these measures would be particularly necessary for those farmers who have been indebted in recent years and that the current revenue from the sale of milk would not allow them to stabilise themselves economically. This was rejected by the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber. They wanted this aid to be distributed by animal, that is to say by cow milk and that this aid was paid as soon as possible. As a result, the criteria were then laid down, one of the criteria was also the one mentioned in Article 16 of the Act, which states that all those who are legally insured and insured should be entitled to this assistance because they achieve the cadastral income of EUR 4,894 per year as a condition for inclusion in disability and pension insurance. This was a condition, and this was how the pattern was made. On the basis of this sample, funds have been allocated to all those for whom the Pension and Disability Insurance Office has sent us a list to pay under Article 16 of the Pension and Disability Insurance Fund. These insurers were essentially so much, these insurers actually produce 52 percent of the milk around, they own 49 thousand dairy cows. It was a sample that was made. Later, we were warned that some are also voluntarily insured under Article 34, but do not meet the conditions of the cadastral. This is the story and now, if the pattern is correct, it is difficult to discuss. I interviewed farmers, farmers and also processors, and we said we would re-examine this content and find out which ones meet the conditions of the tender, because they are eventually included after Article 34, indeed, in the compulsory insurance scheme, but as voluntary insurers.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u309	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please, Mr. Bogovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u310	I think we both agree that, in a rather similar situation, those farmers who have sufficient cadastral income and can be legally insured on this basis, as well as those where this cadastral income is not large enough and they also grow, produce milk and also have this as a basic activity and they run it during the retirement period and are in a rather similar position as other professional farmers. I have seen from your answer, and I am also following this event, that this is presented as some problem to be dealt with and that should probably be resolved in some way. But I didn't see in your answer whether it was any serious intention to come to an agreement, or whether it is now this pattern that you have named, which covers well half of all those producing milk, the one with which the Government has now completed. Only if you can explain: Are these activities continuing, or is this activity, as far as this action is concerned, complete?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u311	Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u312	When we were preparing the criteria for granting this compensation, it was also somehow estimated that the value of EUR 40 was still what made sense. Otherwise, the value of this measure is simply lost by cow milk, of course. I would say that those who live exclusively on milk production and create such cadastral income, which is then also a condition for compulsory insurance, certainly had an advantage. When my colleagues looked at these options, the options are large and certainly the fulfilment of the height of the cadastral income proves if they are dealing with milk production, that it is actually one of the sources on which the farm depends. That's what we wanted to keep. After all, you need to know that maintaining farms, milking, is one of the most important tasks. You need to know that from 1995 to 2007, in Europe, over 500,000 farms have fallen, something due to size, something due to milkiness. These are all the contents we're counting on. We would like to maintain the number of farms in Slovenia and therefore give priority to farms that live exclusively on milk. Indeed, I agree with you that even those who voluntarily insure themselves and have other forms may or may not be another at work, some are exclusive dairy producers. Unfortunately, however, we did not get this list on the PIZU because, as voluntary insurers, they are placed on other lists, such as those who carry out free professions. That's the problem. It's very hard to get a list like this. We'll just, like I said, study this situation and then decide. I understand your question. I understand your concern. We also want to preserve, as I said, all those who live exclusively on milk production and as soon as we get this list, of course we will continue to act. Catastrophe income, however, is the limit on the direction of certain agricultural production. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u313	Thank you very much. Janez Ribič will ask the Minister of Justice a question. This one's gone. Mr. Fish, you still want to ask a question? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u314	Thank you for the floor, Mr President of the National Assembly. We see the courts as the last marriage of justice and justice. Recognizing that there is no justice in society is among the most powerful causes of discouragement, depression and suicide. People with more sense of justice, such as the Slovenian people, are tragically experiencing the resurgence of the idea of justice. For several months now, the public has been upset by the trial of our blind artist, Eugene Bavčar. In connection with this process, academic Tomaž Salamon directly urged you to scrutinize immediately. The appeal of the poet and academician Solomon was published in Vecer on 20 August this year. You haven't responded. For example, for more than a year, a book by author Anne Sam Kam is available to the Slovenian population, Europe, which contains on page 198 cases of specific judicial records that affirm the conscious abuse of the position of judges and judges of specific courts. Dear Mr. Secretary! If the media publish an unproven claim that harms the reputation of the court, it is denied by the public service and when the police and the prosecution act. That's the practice. The claim of Thomas Solomon and Anne Sam was neither tried nor tried to deny. This means only one thing: the state has accepted criticism and, as a consequence, a criminal trial. I hope your answer will not explain that the Minister must not interfere with the proceedings. Of course we all know that. However, the fact that there have been many cases of this type and there are more of them, at least you have not publicly expressed your sympathy for the injured and verified the claims made, reveals the face of this country. So I'm asking you: Why don't you answer the public questions of the citizens regarding the criminal trial, or the cases where the names of the writings and the names of the judges are listed, when they are threatening violations of the law?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u315	Please, peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u316	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u317	Thank you very much. Minister Zalar will answer this question at the next meeting. I thank the Ministers and Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government for the answers given. I hereby terminate this agenda item and this meeting of the assembly. We will continue it in ten minutes, which is at 15.52 with a vote on the proposals for decisions. Thank you very much. So we move on at 15.52.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u318	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. We shall proceed with the adjournment of the sitting and the adjournment of the 1st item of the agenda. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of their voting devices. We are moving on to the 1st item of the agenda, which is to questions from Members and Members. In accordance with the proposal of Srečko Friends, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the reply of Minister of Foreign Affairs Samuel Žbogar to the question of Mr Sreč Friend concerning the cost of rents for the diplomatic and consular representation of the Republic of Slovenia abroad. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Happy Friend, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u319	Thank you very much, Mr President, honourable Members and Members. Today, I asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs how and how much costs we spend on renting diplomatic consular representations, residential parts for the needs of diplomats and in fact for the purposes of these consular matters. The Minister replied to me that the Republic of Slovenia makes ten million euros a year for rents. Of course, we were aware of this information because we have already addressed to the Government several times a parliamentary initiative to buy these properties by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. It's about 180 properties around the world. And the annuities to pay off the loans would be down by three million.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u320	Please, peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u321	Because it makes sense to discuss this in a broader way in the National Assembly, I support you to support this proposal. And, of course, to find a solution in some way, to buy these spaces quickly in the future and in this way also save something for the integrated budget. If only half of these diplomatic and consular representations were bought out, more than three million euros would be saved a year. I do not think that this is information that is to be heard, and if there is any good will in us all, we will support this support after an extensive debate and, of course, together we will find a solution and impose on the Government an obligation to carry out this task also for the benefit of the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u322	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present. The vote was 22 to 41. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Meniha, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Environment and Space, Karl Viktor Erjavac, to the question of Mr Meniha, on state aid in dealing with the consequences of natural disasters. An explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group, Darko Menich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u323	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members. Good-bye. They're natural disasters, and apparently they'll get more and more frequent. In assessing the damage, the state commissions have a very high threshold for the consequences of the accident, which is €2.6 million. This must be achieved to help the country to remedy the consequences of the accident. This threshold includes 0.3 thresholds for the value of the State budget. Problems arise in all municipalities that fail to achieve this high threshold and are left to their budgetary resources alone at the cost of recovery. The Law on the Elimination of the Consequences and on the Eliminating of the Consequences of Natural Accidents, Official Gazette No. 114/2005, in Article 11. I propose that we try to lower this threshold of damage achieved, because I am only saying the case for the congregation of Šostjanj, which suffered a disaster this year. The State Commission assessed the damage and EUR 900,000, which is far from the 2.6 million threshold. And probably all the other municipalities are in a similar situation, and I also call on all the mayors, colleagues, probably in their municipalities this year, and we all wonder where we get this money to fix it, and people are waiting for that repair. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u324	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. Mr. Marijan Pojbich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u325	Mr. President-in-Office. I too will support this proposal for a broader debate. For the reasons already stated by my fellow Member, in particular. I think that this threshold is significantly too high and I think that those municipalities that come from the "periphery" from the state budget cannot get help. That is why I think it is imperative that we look here for some new solutions that will include all the congregations in the periphery. This is especially important to me because, if you remember this year, the congregation of Kungota, from which I come, is affected by the storm. Five times in one year, it completely destroyed the congregation. And unfortunately, I have to say here before the entire esteemed assembly, not one member of the government has come to the congregation of Kungota for one minute. This also happened in the congregations: Poet, Šentilj, and so on. It's rude, it's unacceptable, it's rude. Irresponsibility to those who live on "periphery." That is why I support a broader debate on this question of the delegation raised by my fellow Member. At the same time, I also think it is extremely important that this government and this coalition realize that Slovenia is not only composed of the city of Ljubljana, Jankovic, but also that there are municipalities of Pesnica, Kungato, Šentilj, Radgon and so on in Slovenia. I hope that in the future you will have more hearing for the rest of the Slovenian country.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u326	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 39. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Ribič, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Environment and Space, Karl Viktor Erjavc, to the question of Mr Ribič's question on financing water infrastructure from the Water Fund. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SLS Group Janez Ribič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u327	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Since many Members were not present on the issue of the Minister of the Environment and Space, we discussed the maintenance of the Drava River and its inflows, which are not maintained and which, in the event of major rainfall, are the largest in the area of the Duplek municipality, which is why the duplex navy. I would therefore invite you and ask that you allow, a respected coalition, to discuss this issue in the National Assembly, including the water fund, not to cause a disaster in this area before we act. That is why I expect you to support my request, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u328	Thank you very much. Explanation on behalf of the SNS Group, Mr Silven Majhenič, then Villa Trofenik on behalf of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u329	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have to say: Drava has been swimming for 100 years. The construction of the energy channel has made the situation worse. The poor flow of an infested stream causes floods every year, so I think it would be right for some money to be used to regulate this stream once in a while. You know, that's right, every government, even the one who took over this beloved country of ours, has forgotten our Drava. And it would be a good thing that now, in a way, it would be a fix, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u330	Please, peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u331	which has so far been forgotten. [[...]] I don't think it would be a problem to get any funds here, because this "sanation" could be financed from the profits of the electricity industry, which is actually responsible for these developments in this field. I think it's time for Dogs, Duplek, Lorbek, to get rid of these problems once, and it's high time for the state to listen to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u332	Thank you very much. The word is given by Willi Trofenik on behalf of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u333	Thank you for your word. We will support this proposal. It is also complemented by my question, the same proposal. It is a fact that the situation is unsustainable, that on the most used river in energy terms in Slovenia, which creates the most expensive electricity, flows through all different non-sustainable systems of funds across Slovenia and for other purposes, but is not done most plementaryly, this is the maintenance of the watercourse, which makes people at risk in individual areas and also property. We have an ideal opportunity today to overcome this once. If not, we will reach out to those who know this through other instruments in order to have a debate in this House. I have a parallel proposal for the Drava River later. Once again, we will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u334	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? More? Then I'll give an explanation to the vote on my own behalf. I'm asking you to report that we won't miss anyone. Voice explanation, Willie Rezman. Villas anyway.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u335	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, in these sad times, it is good if we smile in Parliament at some point. Otherwise, I would like to say that I will strongly support this proposed debate, not just because they have problems in Duplex and elsewhere, we have problems across the Drava line, and I will feel very much if those of us who live with Drava do not support such a proposal. Above all, because we have been alerting this problem for many years because nothing has been done in this area. I myself have asked the Ministry of Field Affairs in writing several times to prepare an argument for how they can spend resources so unintentionally. We have collected information that tells us that there is a need for change here. And I think it is right that it is fair to have a proper debate on this and that, on the basis of this debate, the system of allocation of the funds we are talking about should also be changed.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u336	Thank you very much. I'm gonna open up the application again. I would ask you to apply to all those who wish to discuss this, although I do not think there is a need to explain your vote. The word is Branko Marinič. Voice explanation, Mr. Marinic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u337	Thank you very much. It is true that our respected colleague, Janez Ribič, has invited us to be aware, however, that we are living along the Drava River. Quite a number of Members and Members of Parliament are actually living along the Drava River, and we are actually following it in a different sense than some, say, on the other hand, which has clean rivers where fish live. The Drava River, however, changed its appearance and flow precisely because of the energy use of the cheapest hydroelectric power plants. In this regard, however, it is unacceptable to supply from this title the profits generated by electricity generation to those sources that do not deserve it. However, those who have been demolished in one way or another are left without the necessary resources. This isn't about prestige. This is simply a matter of ensuring greater security. And I think you've all understood what Comrade Rybič wanted to warn you. In order to draw the proceedings too long to have funds from this title, it is necessary to channel them to those places where, in fact, the safety of the people and the property of the Drava River are at risk. It'll be too late when the tragedy comes. Now's the time to stop her. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u338	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u339	Thank you very much. I strongly support the debate in the National Assembly on how to spend the most efficient resources from the Water Fund, paid by many who use water resources, either for energy use or for any other use. Why? In view of the fact that a number of open issues have led to the drawdown of funds from this fund, not only the open issues relating to the regulation of watercourses in terms of flood protection and the like, but also certain priority state investments are increasingly at risk due to the inconsistencies and inefficiencies in the use of funds from this fund. What do I mean? I'm thinking of building a bottom-up chain. In fact, one of the previous governments, it seems to me that this was the Rop government, has concluded that the Water Fund funds are prioritized for infrastructure in the construction of the Lower-Savish chain. This is because there was no adoption of a second model for infrastructure construction and it has decided that this will be done by the Water Fund. I think that this was a half-solution that has wiped out many investments in improving water infrastructure and flood protection elsewhere in Slovenia and has raised these issues, which are now related to Drava. I personally support that some compromise is finally made, some serious decisive policy in this area, so that they will not become a priority investment and that flood protection will be properly regulated everywhere in Slovenia, in line with the priorities that follow from the flood threat. So, how much this debate is necessary and, of course, I will support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u340	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Members and Members, when they explain their voices, not to hold half the debate on this subject. [[The ad in the hall.]] The debate does not need to be held in three minutes, but it is possible to explain the voice in three minutes. I'm opening applications for explanations of vote. Brada Roast, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u341	I'll be very short. I speak for myself, not on behalf of the Group of Members. I propose that this debate after six months, since we had a similar discussion, or a slightly broader consideration of the topic of water supply maintenance and water supply in our country, be reopened after six months and specifically devoted to the use of the Water Fund. Perhaps at the meeting of the Committee on Environment and Space, I propose that this debate be held on the Committee on Environment and Space instead of on the plenary to clarify why it is not actually possible to channel the full resources of the Water Fund for the purposes for which the Water Fund has been set up and for which these funds are being collected. Instead of building by means of the Water Fund on footpaths, cycling routes, curbs, sidewalks and so on, this money should, of course, be carried out by watercourses, which unfortunately is not happening in this country as it should be. And that's why, I think the real city is the Committee on Environment and Space, not the entire loot, because we're not going to do anything about it here.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u342	Well, you won't be in favour of this proposal. Voice explanation, Matevž Frangež. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u343	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will support the debate, although I think that the proposal now made by the president of the Committee on Environment and Space is the one that is the right one and represents the right place for such a debate. Allow me just one rating, but I think it's extremely depraved for those who took this money from Drava Valley to Posavje. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u344	My colleague Frangez, without controversy at this time, will be an opportunity to discuss, I apologize, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u345	Okay, thank you very much. I accept your warning. I am pleased that this debate will also be supported by those who have this sin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u346	Thank you very much. We're voting. 65 Members and Members are present. The vote was 38 to 22. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 22.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Verlic, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Mr Patrick Vlačič to the question of Mr Petr Verlic's question on the use of European means of road transport. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members. Dr. Peter Verlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u347	Thank you very much. It has been for quite some time, which has changed the vignette regime, which has introduced a shorter period of validity. Allegedly because it was supposed to be discriminatory. In addition to this discrimination, the European Commissioner used another instrument for transport, which is, of course, the freezing of European funds. I asked the Minister of Transport if things have changed now. Have we received an official document from the European Commission that the funds are released, the wine system is regulated? In short, the European Transport Commissioner is no longer threatening the government. There was no answer, it was just an answer that they had informal conversations. So at this point in time, we have the situation that with the new year, those who buy annual vineyards will pay 73% more, but of course we still have the European Commissioner's threat by freezing European funds for the implementation of the motorway programme. I think it is right for us to open up this subject at a meeting of the National Assembly, because it is a matter of the government's determination or determination in this case vis-à-vis the European institutions and the attitude of the European Commissioner. The European Commissioner does not operate European, but works Italian, and I am afraid that our government is also doing little in Italian and it is a pity that we do not discuss this here, namely the system, the determination of the state of Slovenia to institutions. Therefore, the arguments that the vignettes, the vignette system should be changed because we are going to lose European funds and because we are going to receive reminders do not hold, so I propose that this be discussed in the National Assembly. In particular, in order to obtain clear assurances from the European Commission that the systems currently in place are entirely in line if we do not always blink, or if the price of the vineyards is appropriate. Not to say that it is likely that this will then spread, that, in fact, the Slovenian government can be blackmailed by any Commissioner with any of its tricks.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u348	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 40. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Cukjati, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Health Borut Miklavčič to France Tsukjati's question on anti-crisis measures in the field of health. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members. France Tsukati, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u349	Thank you for your word. We read in the budget memorandum that, last year, 8 billion were transferred from domestic budget resources to the state treasury, about 8 billion or even a little less than the revenues. This year, however, income from domestic resources will be 7 billion, i.e. billions less and expenditure by a billion more, that is to say two billion minus. Surely this has an impact on the health sector, and as we have foretold, the crisis will slow down very hard on health for perhaps a year. Although last year's health treasury saved 139 million, this reserve was already pissed off this year and the Health Insurance Institute recently adopted a second package of measures to ensure the sustainability of the system as a measure. It sounds very nice: a package of measures. And what do we read here? Here we read that the Institute has determined that all healthcare providers will be reduced by 20% of their salary by 5% and so on. And to reduce rights, the intermediate list products are paid from compulsory health insurance instead of 25% as was the case with 20, now 10% and so on. Such measures, as designated by the Institute for Strategic Measures, for a package of measures, do not require much wisdom, not a lot of innovation, but rather the institution, the treasury can only take such measures to reduce the means of implementation and to reduce the rights. What is needed, however, is systemic measures, much more sophisticated, much more demanding. But the government is responsible for you, the Ministry is responsible. Regrettably, the Minister does not predict the measures, and is citing the Health Act. This law has no room for such measures, nowhere to be found, nor can it have them because it is not meant to. The Health and Health Insurance Act can also resolve such measures as can also be taken by the Health Insurance Office. Policy is needed at a higher and more sophisticated level. So I suggest you support this proposal, because whenever we discuss it later, it will be harder to find a solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u350	Thank you very much. Explanation of the voice in his own name, Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u351	Thank you very much. I will support this proposal for a debate on the Minister's response to the question put, just as I have supported it until now and as I will support it until the end. In fact, this is the only way for us to come to some substantive discussions in the National Assembly, otherwise we are only discussing some editorial corrections and other solutions. A long time ago, there was a lot of talk in the National Assembly about system modernisation. Among other things, the modernisation of the pension system and the modernisation of the health system. No one has said exactly what this modernisation means, but from the follow-up measures, we can see that it is a deterioration of the health standard, that it is a reduction in health services, that it is likely to lead to an extension of waiting periods, that this will probably lead to a reduction in the patient's rights or deterioration in the patient's rights and so on. In short, if we want to discuss anti-crisis measures, this is what the Minister has said, and this is what you have always wanted in the National Assembly so far, it would be right to talk about this anti-crisis measure, which is called modernisation in the field of health. As I say, I will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u352	Thank you very much. Once again, I would like to point out to Members and Members that they do not interfere with the content debate in their explanations. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 40. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Petr Verlic, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the reply of Mr Patrick Vlačič, Minister of Transport, to Dr. Petr Verlic's question on the recruitment of agencies and law firms in the appointment of members of administrations. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Dr. Peter Verlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u353	Thank you very much. In response to my written question, the Government replied that the Human Resources Accreditation Councils have so far been paying 43,000 euros. And the Government's Human Resources Accreditation Council appointed or proposed members of the Supervisory Boards also in two state-owned companies. So Darsa's control council and Luke Koper's control council. And these members of the Supervisory Boards have decided to leave their part of the task they have to perform as members of the Supervisory Board to the agencies in order to help select the right members of the Board. Then today the minister answered, and he also said honestly. The Darsa Supervisory Board hired an advisory agency, and they paid EUR 5,700. While in Luka Koper, the law firm did so as part of its advisory agreement. So when we have a difficult economic situation, we are burdening companies with additional costs, and this is what the appointed members of the Supervisory Councils, who have been appointed by the Government and are given a meeting to leave this task to the advisory agencies. And of course, when it comes to the fact that the board member will not be good, they will say that they did it for us at the advisory agency and they will also leave the responsibility to them, and of course the advisory agencies and the law offices will charge all of this nicely, in times of severe economic crisis. The Minister of Transport did not think it worth asking the members of the boards of directors to return to the meeting at least. No, he says that this is quite correct and says that, of course, these agencies have done some logistical procedures for them. Look, Luka Koper and Dars have excellent personnel, excellent legal work, and they know how well logistics procedures for the appointment of members and how to make a selection of candidates. It is right that when we talk about saving, when we talk about difficult times, we talk all over the line, and we are consistent, not talking about one thing, but obviously doing another. So I think that we can open a debate here on how this is happening in the supervisory councils and maybe we can come up with appropriate solutions in the legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u354	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, for 21, for 40. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador William Trophynik, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Environment and Space, Karl Viktor Erjavac, to the question of the question of the Special Use of Water and the payment of concessions arising from it. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Vila Trofenik.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u355	Thank you for your word. Drava River, act two, today. I asked the Minister about the issue of paying concessions. In accordance with the Regulation on concessions for the energy exploitation of the Drava River, it belongs to the nineteen municipalities of Dravograd down for eight power plants. For 2007, the Government then adopted an appropriate regulation, but received it, although the Minister said and described today a revised information system and a system of control that should be implemented by ARSO, only some local communities received it. There are documents on this, both for those who have not received it and for those who have received it. Some are crying and others have initiated proceedings in court. However, proceedings before a court or hearing shall be carried out unreasonablely from day to day to other terms. Today, the minister was unable to answer the second part, but the basic part of the question that the congregations received, which they did not receive, and why did they not receive in 2007? He could not answer the questions whether the 2008 regulation had been financially implemented, had only received some or none, how it had been addressed and could not answer, although he had promised a written reply, complementary, for 2009, or whether the Regulation had been adopted, let alone to make it a reality. [[...]] My question and insistence is not against the Minister, but it is about the problem. As I explained earlier, there are no provisions in the law and by-laws, and I therefore ask for support to clarify this and to find out once what the situation is in this area, because this is simply unacceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u356	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Members or on its own behalf? Emissary groups? SDS emissaries. Branko Marinic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u357	Thank you for your word, nice greeting to everyone. Well, it's really about continuing the story of the Drava River, which gives the cheapest energy with the hydropower plant, but before it was some other content, now of course there's another content. In the SDS Group, we expect everyone to truly endorse this extremely good proposal for a broader debate, because there are many things, which we can only guess at, by some other officials who are hiding quite a few doors behind individual ministers. If an appropriate act was adopted in 2007 at the level of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, led by Janez Janša at the time, there were, of course, some other irregularities arising solely from certain interests, probably not from ignorance clearly defined under these concession fees. And there are 19 congregations on that list that have been deprived of the funds they should have received. Where, in what way, who is behind who has a different interest from what is prescribed, it would be appropriate to find out in a broader debate where Members and Members will receive from these relevant services that do so, including credible documentation with all the numbers in the euro that we are most likely to be interested in. Most rightly, however, this bag of money, which is not so small, would indeed be distributed in accordance with the concession regulation, which is strictly intended and purposeful. They cannot be lost somewhere in some of the side paths, but they can get to the address where they really need to get to, or where they have all the grounds, that they are strictly dedicated, and that they get to the right addresses. In the SDS Group, as we say, we will also confirm the proposal for a broader debate on this subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u358	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 25. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 25.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Jerovšek, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Foreign Minister Samuel Žbogar to the question of Mr Jerovška's question on the question of the meeting of the embassies. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 61 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 38. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Franz Bogovic, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance, Dr Frances Križanič, to the question of Mr Bogovic's delegation regarding the use of European funds. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 61 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 36. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. Following a proposal from Member Robert Hroat, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Education and Sport Dr Igor Lukšić to Robert Hroat's question on public institutions in Planica. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group, Robert Hrvat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u359	Thank you so much for saying that. At the time when I was asking the question, the hall was pretty empty, and I think I should explain what I actually asked him. The government is [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u360	We'll read it from the tape so we don't have to explain everything.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u361	Yeah, yeah. [[...]] The government is 23. 6. adopted a decision on the abolition of the public institution of Planica and interestingly, at the same meeting appointed a new institution, established a new institution, which is called a slightly different one, but in any case it is a public institution of Planica. There was no concrete answer to my specific questions today. The excuses for why this happened and how they got away are, in my opinion, out of five veins and I must say that I was quite disappointed with the Minister's response. See, the public institution, which was established in 2006, started with an effective work and we were just before the realization of what we all wanted - to become a Planica for us and not a disgrace. I am afraid, given everything that has been said today, when nothing has actually been said about the programme, the staff and so on, that this Planica will still be an embarrassment to all of us for some time. And that is wrong, and I think it is right to discuss this in order to familiarise ourselves with all the activities carried out by this newly established institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u362	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 59 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 37. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Iztok Podkrižnik, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Environment and Space, Karl Viktor Erjavc, to the question of Iztok Podkrižnik concerning Natura 2000." Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group, Iztok Podkrižnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u363	Thank you so much for saying that. According to the ILO Minister, in 2003 they did not know exactly what Natura 2000 meant. In such a case as Natura 2000, I think that for the development of Slovenia it is necessary to take a substantial longer time than the few days available at the time, I will tell the municipalities in Slovenia. This has led people to be misled and unable to participate actively in the planning itself, it is said in all these activities and, I will say, in the possibilities for the development of the place in which they live. I think it is the duty of all of us together to allow the owners, in fact, to participate in these interventions in this planning. Now, if we look at the neighbours of Italy or Austria, we know that they have essentially a smaller percentage of the land under Natura 2000 than Slovenia has. We know that, in my opinion, up to 3,000 altitudes have very well-developed infrastructure. With us, this is one big brake, and I think it's a damage to rural development. On the other hand, there is responsibility. We are responsible for the generations that are coming after us, because at the very moment this Natura was adopted "on the hook," if I say domestically, it seems to me that we have actually retained one great development, that is, for generations to come. The development component in these areas should be strengthened and European funds should be used effectively. I do not think that the congregation involved in Natura 2000 is able to plan the UN today without problems, because, as I walk on the ground, I notice one big problem in these municipalities, but it is not just about the development of tourism, it is also about other economic sectors. And I don't think that we are proud to have adopted such a strategic document in 2003. And I think that the community here will be able to play something on this subject and probably speak a word about it here in Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u364	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? In your own name? Anyone else want some of the MPs? No, no, no. Then in his own name, Willy Trophynik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u365	Thank you for your word. Of course, maybe someone will understand this performance as if I have something against Natura 2000, but I would like to point out that there are some of us here or quite a bit; that the truth is that Natura 2000, the act, in the National Assembly, was not adopted in accordance with the applicable rules of procedure and the Law on Local Self-Government. On the contrary, Natura 2000 could not be declared by any of the municipalities in the Republic of Slovenia and would fall from this point of view in the Constitutional Court. At that time, time pressure was due to the obligation to join the European Union. Now Natura 2000 is becoming an argument or tool to prevent, in many ways unjustifiable, investments or other interventions that are also in the wider public interest. The institutions authorised to monitor or protect in accordance with the Natura 2000 Act have become a special centre of government, which is ignorant and irresponsible in particular to the public interest. I do not defend the partial interests of individuals who have unrealistic desires and I think that this act or this content is a deep shock and a responsible decision and also the necessity to tell those centres of power that we have not therefore set them up, that we are not paying them to do so and that they are not to the benefit of protecting Nature, but that they enjoy being the centre of power. For this reason, I will support this proposal for a principled reason. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u366	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Mr. Willi Rezman. It's a good thing the president of JZ can't do that. Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u367	I will be very brief, Mr President, I would just like to say that this is also one of the areas that deserve a debate in the National Assembly, at least the mayors know what problems we have with this area and I think it is right to talk about this and possibly make some changes in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u368	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 24. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 24.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. Following a proposal from Ambassador Aleksandr Zorn, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Education and Sport Dr Igor Luksic to Alexander Zorn's question on free public primary education. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 38. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Franz Pukšić, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Finance, Dr. Franz Križanič, to the question of Member Franz Pukšić on payment non-discipline. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 35. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Ribič, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance, Dr. Franz Križanič, to the question of Mr Ribič's question on compensation for the costs of the procedure before the State Audit Commission. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 38. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Zvonk Černač, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Secretary-General of the Government of Mag. Milan Martin Cvikl on the question of Mr Zvonk Černač on the costs of official travel, official transport, restoration of protocol facilities and costs for falcon. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Zvonko Černač.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u369	We will support the debate on this issue in the Slovenian Democratic Party. It is a question of inequity, not only of Mr Milan M. Szwikl, but of the entire government. The issue of non-economics is so much more outstanding in times when the government says that it is a crisis, that there is a need to save, but it does not perceive it in itself. Falcon, on which the decision was known on 8 December last year, still stands. In a year, a million 500 thousand dollars of rent has been lost. A million $500,000 rent in a year! The costs incurred by Falcone, the hangar in America, the taxis in America, the insurance in America, the repairs in Switzerland, the multiple flights of the team to America, which watched this plane, exceed a million euros. The second issue was the cost of over 500 empty state apartments. Listen, Mr. Kumer, this will be interesting for you too. Among those 500 empty state apartments there are also some apartments of the National Assembly, for which no rent bill is paid and no operating costs bill. The amount of 500 empty state dwellings per year for unrealised rents amounts to €200,000. Each such empty apartment costs the country 1,000 euros a year. There are 500 of them, half a million euros a year to make the country's taxpayer's money for only 500 empty apartments. The cost loses a million 700 000 euros, i.e. over a thousand square metres of housing in one year, while in Ljubljana alone there are more than 2,500 families with no suitable housing. Laugh, really, that's for laughs. You've also shown a relationship [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u370	Mr. Chernač, please don't be argumentative!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u371	So, more than enough questions, not only in terms of economy, but also in terms of ethics, are there questions that we should devote to this issue of inefficiencies, to the inefficient functioning of Mr Milan M. Szvikl, as well as of the entire Government and even the entire coalition, to the debate in the National Assembly. Even if we are able to adopt starting points and measures to address only a dozen of these problems in this debate, this effect will be significantly greater than all the many debates you are having on issues that are of no importance to this country and these citizens. By inviting you to support this debate. We will, of course, support it in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors and we will actively participate in it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u372	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Happy Friend. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u373	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. With regard to these costs, I would like to emphasise another matter that I think is necessary. In the central hangar, where this aircraft is now installed, so far there has been a general service for small aircraft servicing. They are simply thrown out of these premises and in fact damage, not only the one described by Mr Cernač, but also the one to be counted, of course it will count, because justice will be sought in court. As far as the old story around Falcone is concerned, it would be desirable to end it once and for all here in Parliament and to decide in some way whether we will need this aircraft daily, whether we will use it regularly, or whether we will have it, as Mr Squeakl said, because of the cheaper operating costs of a hanger. As far as the apartment's concerned. Soldiers drive from Ptuj and Maribor to Postojno, but there are empty apartments in Postojna. And also for the needs of the Schengen border, the police drive from Maribor to the Croatian border. A day. Travel costs are also regularly paid for. So much for how we rationally deal with this "resource" that we inherited if you want with the former Yugoslav People's Army. Today, and so on, these apartments are worthless, thanks to all who have behaved so masculinely toward state property. I support this debate. It would be an emergency.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u374	Thank you very much. Explanation of the voice in its own name, Zvonko Černač. But no controversy.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u375	Thank you very much. Of course, I will also support the debate on this issue. But I'm taking this opportunity to say a few more arguments why I'm going to do it. In response to my question, Mr Milan M. Squeakl said that the most expensive thing about falcon is not to use it. And that's clearly how it works. The most expensive thing is that we don't use it. By the way, I've noticed somewhere today that Mr Golobič is at a conference on the universe, that's probably for Slovenia and for these crisis situations a very important topic, but if he were a falcon in office, he could have gone with him. The question is, would it not be cheaper than the transport he chose?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u376	Mr. Blackach, I think you're crossing the line. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u377	Excuse me. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u378	One that's reasonable. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u379	Mr President, you have to understand. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u380	limit in argument arguments [[...]] [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u381	That falcon is a very wide topic, flying all over the world, it was said that we can work with it in transatlantic overflights, maybe even reach the universe, who knows. [[...]] And that's why I got a little carried away. The fact is, this Falcon has caused enormous costs since 8 December, when it was known that something would have to be done with it, due to the inaction of Mr Milan M. Szwikel. Instead of counting how many papers were copied on a machine, it would have to be active to make this falcon fly. Only in a year did he create a million five hundred thousand dollars of damage from an unrealized rent. Not to take into account the cost of parking, "hammering" in America, the security that was detained because the state couldn't negotiate properly. So, there are some costs that would be right not to happen. In any case, there is also a symbolic picture of the attitude towards public finances. And for this reason, it would be appropriate to illuminate this story in this debate, too, and to match and give some direction to Mr Milan M. Squikel and convince him that it is not the most expensive thing if he does not fly, but that the solution is elsewhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u382	Thank you very much. We're voting. Did you want an explanation of vote? [[...]] So, an explanation of the voice in your own name, if I understand. Brada Roast.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u383	I wouldn't have answered at all, because it's not worth a sound, especially in the tone used by my colleague, but I would have said so. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u384	Could not close temporary folder: %s [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u385	Wait a minute, I'll be very short. I'd, I'd get carried away. I think it's not just him. It's someone else he needs to listen to. [[...]] Now I would just like to say this; if the proposal were to be such that we are discussing the whole period from 2004 to 2008, and not all year ago, with regard to Falcone and especially with the apartments, in order to say that our young colleagues have proposed that all the apartments that the defence ministry in particular has will be leased to young families. It is said that this government, this coalition, has been thinking about the useful use of these empty apartments, while the previous coalition has not thought about anything, but has been thinking the most about how to allocate funds for the decommissioning of the nuclear power plant. That is why, of course, I will vote against this decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-10-23-SDZ5-Redna-10.ana.u386	Thank you very much. We're voting. Peace in the hall! There are 62 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 39. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 10th meeting of the Assembly. I inform the members and members of the Committee on Finance that the meeting of the Committee will begin in 5 minutes in the Chamber, which has been set up by reference. Thank you very much and good-bye.
