ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. I'm about to proceed with the second session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: the Flowers of Zalokar Orazem, Jakob Presečnik, Lojze Posedel and Dr. Peter Verlič until 3 p.m. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to seven. At the beginning of the day, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on insurance under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. With regard to the proposal for a law, a group of ten Members and Members with the first-signed Bojan Kontic requested the National Assembly to hold a general debate. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. The word is from Dr. Franz Križanič, Minister of Finance. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u2	Honourable Members, honourable Members, Honourable President of the National Assembly. Allow me to briefly present the main solutions to the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Insurance Act. The essential purpose of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Insurance Act is to implement the provisions of Directive 2007/44 of the European Council and of Parliament amending Council Directive 92/49 of the European Economic Community and Directives 2002/83 of the European Community, 2004/39 of the European Community, 2005/68 of the European Community and 2006/48 of the European Community with regard to procedural rules and evaluation criteria for the careful assessment of acquisitions and increases in shares in the financial sector. This Directive entered into force on September 2007 and has to be implemented by Slovenia by 21 March 2009. This is a modernisation of the approach to regulating the insurance sector. The principle of the safe, prudent and transparent operation of the insurance and reinsurance undertaking is essential in this Directive, which is closely linked to the principle of prudential and effective supervision, which requires that in the authorisation of a qualified share, this is more than 10%, and then higher, 20, 30 and 50, comply with the rules on ensuring the business of insurance undertakings in accordance with the rules on risk management, safety and prudential rules and other business rules. With regard to the procedure for authorising the acquisition of a qualified share, the approval shall be given by the Insurance Supervisory Agency, which shall mention the principle of transparency requiring a clear and transparent authorisation procedure, as well as the principle of integrity, which shall be implemented by defining clear criteria on the basis of which the competent supervisory authority shall examine the suitability of the future acquirer of a qualified share in a financial institution. It is of great importance that the principle of legal certainty requires that the solutions of the competent authorities are not the product of their arbitral assessment, but are defined and predetermined in the law, so that the applicant for authorisation is said to be aware of what conditions he must fulfil in order to obtain the authorisation, or that he is informed of which documents and information he must provide as evidence of his statements. The principle shall also be implemented by specifying the time limits within which the supervisory authority must decide on the authorisation to acquire a qualified share. Subject to the principles mentioned above, the draft law sets out a clearly set time limit for the evaluation procedure, clearly specifying or explicitly stating the reasons for refusal of authorisation and additional requirements for the cooperation of supervisory authorities. The amendments will also ensure greater transparency in the approval procedure for the acquisition of a qualified share. Among the other innovations brought by the proposal for a law not related to the transposition of the directive would highlight in particular the identification of the possibility of introducing a single insurance management system as already known by the remaining sectoral laws and the introduction of a register of authorised actors. Furthermore, certain provisions of the law governing insurance intervention and representation are more appropriately regulated by specifying which cases are exempted from the obligation to obtain authorisation to carry out insurance representation activities. The sums of insurance sums, insurance of professional liability of insurance intermediaries are also increasing as a result of the designation of the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Committee and the provision on the automatic increase of those amounts published by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is added. In view of the fact that the crisis assets of insurance undertakings can represent investments in the OECD Member States and that the localisation of the crisis assets is also possible in these countries, there is also the possibility that the surplus of the branch’s own resources may be invested in the territory of other OECD countries. The provision concerning the authorisation of the establishment of a third country branch is amended in this direction to remove the requirement of reciprocity for the OECD Member States, since the removal of such reciprocity is a condition for Slovenia's entry into the OECD. Dear Members and Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the National Assembly to support the proposal for a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u3	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Rado Likar has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, honourable Members, honourable Members! Insurance is an important service activity for each country. This is reflected, inter alia, in the detailed legislative regulation of the operation of service providers, the regulation of the capital adequacy of insurance undertakings, and in the particularly regulated supervision of insurance undertakings. In the SDS Group, we believe that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Insurance Act, as regards procedural rules and evaluation criteria for a careful assessment of acquisitions and increases in shares in the financial sector, is suitable for further consideration. The amendment of the law itself does not seem problematic to us, as it is necessary to comply with the European Directive adopted in 2007 and which provides that Member States must bring it into their legal order by 21 March 2009, which none of the Member States has done. The proposal introduces a closed system of criteria on the basis of which they decide on the suitability and suitability of the beneficiary of the qualified share. We note some shortcomings that we believe should be taken into account in the adoption procedure or some of the concepts more precisely defined. For example, in an article setting out how to assess the suitability of a future qualified holder, one of the criteria is also the reputation of a future qualified holder. Questions are raised as to how the reputation of a future qualified holder will be assessed, what will be the criteria for assessing reputation. Furthermore, the concepts of connected persons and the concept of what an investment firm is should also be more clearly defined. One of the main solutions to the bill is that it offers the possibility of a single system of implementation, as already known by the remaining sectoral laws, which is good in our view. In particular, we welcome the solution whereby management tasks and supervision tasks in the single system are more clearly defined or demarcated. The Slovenian Democratic Party will, as it is said, vote in favour of the proposal being suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Mr Villa Trofenik has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u6	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting to all present in the hall. Amendments to the Insurance Act rely on the problem of obtaining a qualified share governed by the existing law in accordance with existing European legal acts, which are insufficiently defined and constitute a limiting factor for the development of finance and in particular insurance. The proposed amendments to the law bring into the Slovenian legal order Directive 2007/44, which aims to harmonise the authorisation procedures across Europe, to obtain a qualified share in insurance, reinsurance, credit institutions and investment firms. This Directive is the Directive of maximum harmonisation, which means that Member States must not legislate stricter rules governing the acquisition of qualified shares. The amendment of the law will simplify the criteria and procedures for acquiring or increasing the qualified share in insurance and reinsurance undertakings, which is an additional measure to reduce administrative barriers. The proposed amendments to the law clearly determine the timing of the review procedure, which is limited up to 82 and 92 days, clearly lay down the grounds for refusal of authorisation and define additional requirements for the cooperation of supervisory authorities. Following the principles of transparency, integrity, prudential and effective supervision, legal security, the public, proportionality and separation between direct and portfolio investments, the proposed legislative changes set out a closed list of criteria for examining investor applications to increase the qualified share, establishing a maximum period for defining additional information for the purposes of the supervisory authority, clearly determining the number of interruptions of the evaluation period, establishing the maximum assessment period for the decision of the supervisory authority, ensuring greater transparency of the authorisation procedure for the acquisition of a qualified share and the possibility of establishing a single management system as defined in other sectoral laws. The proposed law, as assessed by our Group of Members, provides an appropriate basis for further consideration and will therefore be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Rezman has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u8	Thank you very much. I want a nice hello to everyone, too. In the introduction, I say that we will support the Government's amendment and the addition of the Insurance Act to the DeSUS Group. In general, there is an impression in the public that it may not be most accurate that the conditions for obtaining a qualified share in the acquisition are being tightened. However, this is the second place, so we estimate in DeSUS, also to tighten other conditions and criteria that could be negative, as regards increased concentration or takeover transactions. In particular, it is necessary to specify and tighten the conditions in the approval or rejection process by the relevant supervisory authority in the course of the acquisition tests, in the case of capital concentration tests. There is probably no doubt about the need to think carefully about this law, because it is one of the pillars of financial institutions, the financial industry, which is so among the fundamentals, which concerns almost everything on the basis of universality - no one can, in other words, withdraw from the effects of this activity - and which, of course, also seeks to strengthen its position in order to have easier and better opportunities for new products, for the strength of its business and, of course, for the safety of those with them in any relationship. This time's novelty, the fifth is already in line, and this also speaks of the need to modernise this sector, is not autonomous in the sense of following this move from our internal economic life, but is, as has been said, primarily for the transposition of the directive. In doing so, it is good to say that there is maximum harmonisation and that there is little or no room for any different decisions within individual national states. It is therefore necessary to comply with this Directive. The assessment of the applicants is that the minimum harmonisation principles have been overly relaxed, that this regulation is too diversified in different countries and that, for this reason, there has also been too little of these activities which would increase the strength and concentration of insurance companies. Some of these elements have prevented faster development, greater strength and greater safety in the business of insurance. The need for regulatory unification is indisputable, the need for concentration is also assessed as indisputable, and the need for administrative rationalisation through the introduction of a single system is also exposed, and the need for consistent, precise, transparent and uniform control criteria. The expected effects of this bill or the transposition of the directive into our legal order are better opportunities for developing insurance activities and at the same time better opportunities for those who are users of their services. For these reasons, we will also support the DeSUS Group or its amendments and additions.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, colleagues, distinguished minister with co-workers! If it wasn't for all the gold that shines, I'd try to prove it through this marriage. We have a beautiful frame, imagine a frame on the wall, which is beautiful, but the picture is missing, and so it is with this law. Of course, we can be persuaded by the proposaler, the Government, to transpose the directive of the European Union, which we must transpose by a certain date, into a system of legal frameworks and regulations. Okay. Of course, they can tell us that we are regulating a qualified proportion, which is also controlled by the Security Agency, that this is at least 10% of the votes - everything is nice. But let us begin with the vital changes that this law brings or makes. Gives you the option of a single system. I would very much like people to understand, if by chance someone is watching or listening, especially, I hope. The story can be very plastic, very beautiful. The country, which is right - and the President of the Government - is announced that the Supervisory Boards or the Supervisory Boards will, if you like, split the prizes. Perfect! Of course the insurance companies will decide. Okay, no! Then we'll have a single system. This is ideal, great, and so we will have a board of directors, but we will not have a board of oversight and administration. But why is that great? And we're going to Article 4 of this law, which says - so it's nice to read the articles - and it's very clear and it says like this - one of the segments I'm going to read is "the board of the insurance company has to name" - we say if the single system - "at least two executive directors." And inside of that is what sounds nice on the outside: "The provisions of the LAG governing the participation of members of the board or supervisory board on profits shall not apply to members of the board." Fair enough, fine! Now they won't "roll" in the supervisory board or the supervisory board, nor do the board of directors have the right to participate in the profit after the GDD. Yes, but where does this law say that executive directors are members of boards? Nowhere! Now those people who were members of the Supervisory Board, if they were smart, would run for CEOs - write at least two. Four will apply, the insurance companies will name four, and the four will be expelled from the board of directors on the basis of this law. And they'll say that the board of directors should be there, and we're executive directors, and it doesn't say anywhere that we have to be members of the board of directors, and they're going to share the profits. It's true! It's true. And what's even worse is that we see through this, actually, why insurance companies fly fine through these laws between Scylla and the Caribbean. Why the profit? Is it really a profit to be shared by the supervisory councils and by the executive directors, if they are not already on the board of directors, and then it will really apply? Where are the insurance profits supposed to go? According to my logic, by your logic, as insurers who pay insurance, these profits that are generated should go into favourable terms for the insurers. I would expect the insurance company to give these profits to the insurer on the basis of some premium he pays. No, no, no, no, no! Earnings less than wages, unless, of course, they have these profits of the insurance company, but it is quite simple, they raise insurance sums to the insured to create profits that they will put in their pocket in one way or another! And if that were true, I would expect it, but it's the worst, most judgment and opinion of the Legal and Legal Service, and now they're telling me there's no business regulations. We must not give an opinion at first reading. What now, ladies and gentlemen?Oh, my God! We will assess that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law - because the proposer says so - because the competent services sitting there alongside the President have found that the framework is real and healthy and that this law can go to first reading. And we're going to say, "Fine. Oh. K., we agree. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Insurance Act is appropriate for further consideration." Look out now! In the second reading, 15 days before the second reading, the Legal and Legislative Service - this is the saddest - can give its opinion. And what if it happened that, after the National Assembly, which I most respect, because it is the first branch of power in this country, it said, "Yes," the legal-law service would find that it is inconsistent with certain laws or that it is not appropriate. Then what? Who will excuse us 90 that we naively said, can, wonderfully, this law is "fine", is suitable for further consideration, and the law-law service would say, "Sorry, ladies and gentlemen, it is not." I don't know why the legislature can't give its opinion on this law if there are issues at first reading.Oh, my God! Ladies and gentlemen. Those who deal with business regulations and, in particular, those who sit with the President, take care to amend the Rules of Procedure. And you will see that the Legislative and Legal Service will have comments and will have comments exactly where I have said them on behalf of the Slovenian National Party - that it is not clear where the Executive Director is. At least two. And what bothers me the most? It says in the law, one of at least two executive directors, can be five, only one must know Slovenian. Yeah, great! Fine! Does this mean that we have already sold insurance companies?Oh, my God! Even if I make the insurance company English, American, French, Italian, Chinese, I don't care! The Executive Director of the institution in the country of Slovenia - we have heard the Minister, I know that he thinks it is very important for Slovenia and for Slovenia's financial flows. For the Slovenians, I emphasize. And now we will have one of two or five who needs to know Slovenian, while the rest will be foreigners who do not even think it appropriate to learn Slovenian and will not even feel fit to respect Slovenian legislation and Slovenian practice! That's how it goes. And the Isle of Mlakar wrote one song in which he sings says, "That's right, that's right, that's right, and that's how it's gonna be!" In short, a wonderful slalom to show how good we are, how nice we are, how there will be no more profits to be shared by individuals without saying that these profits should be received by the insured, but even a hole in the law, where executive directors will be excluded from the boards, thus also being excluded from the fact that they will not be entitled to profits, and will share them again - not in the way of A, but in the way of B. And that's what this law allows. Sam, Bogdan Barovic, as a member of the Slovenian National Party, until I receive an opinion or get an explanation of all that is unclear here and what is permitted to me is not right, I will not support and I will not agree that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Insurance Act is appropriate for a second treatment. However, colleagues of the Slovenian National Party will have to decide on their own conscience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Just a brief explanation. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Legislative and Legal Service will give its opinion when we, Members and Members, decide after a discussion on the objectives and guidelines of the law whether it is suitable for further consideration. It will then give an opinion and also draw attention to any legal and legislative dilemmas that arise in the document. So the procedure is normal and there is nothing unusual about this procedure. We continue to present the views of the groups of Members. The word has magic. Radovan Žerjav on behalf of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The new law before us is due to the transposition of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council into our legal order. The proposed amendments shall introduce appropriate changes in the authorisation procedure and the criteria used to decide on the acquisition of a qualified share. The new law will thus simplify the criteria and procedures, as the European uneven application of the provisions to date has proved to be a limiting factor in the development of the financial system. The law so clearly sets out the time components of the evaluation procedure. Clearly, a closed list sets out the reasons for refusal of authorisation and sets out additional requirements for the inter-State cooperation of supervisory authorities. In the SLS Group, we see no reason not to support the proposed law. On this occasion, however, we would like to draw attention to another issue specific to the Slovenian insurance market. Following the independence of Slovenia and the adoption of the new legal framework, it is possible to establish and develop insurance intermediaries of companies for insurance brokerage, so-called brokers. The appearance of brokers followed practices abroad but inconsistently. A country with a long tradition of brokers carries out an entire range of insurance business, and many brokers have limited themselves to the role of broker between insurance and insurance. Brokers often get jobs through different relationships, ownership connections, acquaintances, even political ones. What happens in such cases to their commission, moving between 7% and 20%, can only be thought of by us. Brokers with such legislation as now that the wager of the insurance commission are gradually increasingly in control of the insurance market. In the vast majority of cases, their interest is not a high-quality service because, given the circumstances, it is not even necessary, but primarily their own property interest. Brokers take advantage of the situation and tend to increase fees, while insurance companies tend to maintain or increase the market share of this, increasingly higher fees are prepared to pay, as reflected in the resulting increase in insurance premiums in the final phase. In recent times, brokers have even been involved in the conclusion of insurance contracts; thus, contracting authorities or insurers are different ministries and other public institutions. In view of the above, it would certainly be appropriate, if not already necessary, to resolve the change in the law in the direction of greater transparency with regard to these commissions, which would ultimately lead to greater competition and better quality services in the insurance market. In the SLS Group in this direction, we are preparing amendments to the law before us, and we will present them in the procedure for the adoption of the law. As has already been said, we consider the proposal to be suitable for further consideration, and tomorrow we will vote in favour of the continuation of the procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Milan Gumzar has the floor on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u14	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted colleagues and colleagues! With the proposal for an insurance law, the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending the Directive and the Directives on the procedures for rules and evaluation criteria for the careful assessment of acquisitions and increases in shares in the financial sector is transposed into the Slovenian legal order, and we believe in the LDS that it is good that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has drawn up the proposed law. The bill is a twin, along with the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Banking Act, which is also because in other euro-area countries, unlike Slovenia, supervision of the financial sector is uniform. The aim is to achieve a pan-European harmonisation of the procedures for authorising qualified participation in credit institutions, insurance companies, reinsurance undertakings and investment firms. The new law will thus simplify the criteria and procedures for acquiring or increasing a qualified share in insurance and reinsurance companies, which is an additional measure to reduce administrative barriers and strengthen insurance in Europe and Slovenia. The most important are qualified shares, i.e. care about the quality ownership of this part of the financial system; licences for obtaining a qualified share in the insurance undertaking will be issued by the Insurance Supervisory Agency. Another important novelty brought by the bill is the possibility of unitary management of our insurance companies. The rest of the regional laws already know this possibility. Therefore, insurance companies will be able to have insurance if the owners so decide, only the Management Board and not the Supervisory Board and the Administration. Many know this part of the financial system supports the introduction of single management mainly in larger insurance companies, so that such management and control are more effective than two-thirds. In the LDS, we will conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, as its implementation will help to make this part of the financial sector more stable and safer, even more efficient.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u16	Respected and respected. When considering the amendment to the Social Democrats Insurance Act, we are not only based on the obligation to incorporate the provisions of the European Directive into the Slovenian legal order, but rather on our position to shed light on the reasons and objectives for the adoption of this law. In doing so, we estimate that the insurance market in Slovenia is growing to expand the range of providers and insurance services. These circumstances, in particular during the financial and economic crisis, require us to more secure the interests of insurers, to ensure the stability of the insurance market and to open up the possibilities of domestic insurance institutions to strengthen their competitiveness and better organisation, especially when it comes to state-owned companies, create conditions for enlargement to new markets. The causes of the financial crisis also show how important smart regulation and effective control of financial mechanisms and institutions are. We believe that by adopting this novelty we contribute to greater insurance safety, better protection of insurance undertakings in taking over, and we guarantee greater credibility and better quality of possible acquisitions. All of this in a clear, transparent and time-consuming procedure which, on the basis of a defined system of criteria, decides on the appropriateness to acquire or increase a qualified share in the insurance undertaking. A qualified proportion under the proposal of the novel shall be subject to an indirect or direct holding of at least 10% of the share in the insurance undertaking and may be less so where the holder is already allowed to exercise a significant influence on the performance of that legal person. In the licence to acquire a qualified share in the insurance undertaking, the Insurance Supervisory Agency will determine the allowed amount of the insurance company's capital in five different ranges: up to 20%, up to 1/3, up to 50%, over 50% or such percentage as to make the future qualifying owner a parent insurance company. We estimate that it is particularly important that the draft clearly sets out both the timing of the evaluation procedure and the admissible reasons for refusing authorisation. The implementation of this novel will simplify the criteria and acquisition procedures to increase the qualified share in insurance and reinsurance companies, which is an additional measure to reduce administrative barriers and strengthen insurance in Slovenia as well as in Europe. In addition, the amendment introduces the possibility of introducing a single insurance management system, while at the same time providing for certain exceptions, such as a restriction on profit participation for members of the board in an insurance company organised as a mutual insurance company. In addition, the novelty also allows insurance companies to organise as a European shareholder company, Societas Europe. In doing so, we assess the need for the Social Democrats to continue their strategic consideration of the pillaring of insurance. The idea of two pillars, Triglav on one side and the links between Maribor Insurance and Sava reinsurance company on the other, would enhance competitiveness on the domestic market and, more importantly, provide better starting opportunities for Slovenian insurance companies to break into new markets. We want to give this process the necessary political impetus. Convinced that by adopting this novel we are not only fulfilling our European commitment, but also contributing to greater stability of the insurance market and security for the insured, we will support the Social Democrats' proposal for a novel.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u17	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a general debate between Members and Members. Mr. Lucky Friend has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Dear President! I would like us to be honest with citizens and citizens in the National Assembly and to say what could mean to them further worse. The insurance markets and shares of Slovenian insurance companies in the past - of course I want to touch on these topics - have been sold, as well as you know, in a very suspicious way. If we mention only the Triglav Insurance Company, it was sold through the SIB bank, unpurchased shares were pledged, the story of Klemenčičev is familiar to you. In short, today we are introducing a single system, the supervisory function is lifted and the Executive Director will be able to control himself; I believe he will be well supervised. With such laws, honourable ladies and gentlemen, we will not be a bit social. What happens when these executives run out of the desired sums for the profits they would like to "bass" in their pocket: simply, they will raise insurance premiums. And again, the spears will break on the users of insurance services. And if we transfer this to that life-cost basket, we know that insurance is glued to all of these bills that we get a month, maybe this for the car, maybe this for the house or whatever else, which is already mandatory today - and it's going to affect our lives. And in the way that we are adopting it today with this amendment to the Insurance Act, we will again allow a handful to be rich. [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] I would warn you that you will find honest words and also tell people who are watching us and who will become users through the law. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mrs Renata Brunskole has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u20	Well-welcome, distinguished Mr President of the National Assembly, Mr Minister with co-worker, distinguished colleague and colleague! Slovenia's entry into the European Union also means that Slovenia is more open throughout the European Union, and I believe that EU-wide harmonisation in the field of insurance in the Slovenian area is also necessary, as we need to transpose the European Union's directive into our legislation by 21 March this year. The substance of the novelty, as has already been mentioned several times today, is also the adoption of an additional measure to reduce administrative barriers and, in my opinion, it is also extremely important to strengthen insurance in both Slovenia and Europe. In today's debate there were also quite a few concerns, in a direction, at least that's how I felt and felt, but I don't think they are necessary. The legislation provided for by the European Directive is such. If we have decided to enter Slovenia into the European Union, we must also adopt this amendment of the law in this area, i.e. in this field of insurance, or I am evaluating and proposing that it is suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr. Bogdan Chapich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u22	I'm giving up the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u23	He's quitting. Mr. Magg has the word. Radovan Žerjav. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In short, in my presentation of the opinion of the SLS Group, I said something on the topic of brokers. In Slovenia, like many others, this matter has gone a little, at least in my opinion, into strange waters, and it is right that when we have this law on the table, we are talking about this matter and possibly in the process of adopting the law. Brokers do not present their role to potential and existing insurers in the vast majority of cases in a way where their quality, knowledge, expertise, experience, international connections, references and so on is important for the choice decision, but with a simple doubt that the insurer will pay nothing for their services, but that the payer will, of course, be an insurance company. The policy of insurance intermediaries given to insurers acting as primary contracting authority to reduce their insurance premium, while ensuring that the insurers do not directly benefit from such a decision to cooperate with the broker or to sign an authorisation to the intermediary, in the vast majority of cases the insurers will decide to cooperate with the broker. Often these brokers get jobs through different relationships, ownership connections, knowledge, many times, I've told you before, even political ones. There are loud rumors on the market that part of this insurance fee must then be returned: in the form of donations, various awards or even bribes. Insurance companies fighting for their income were forced to adopt such a way of working. The insurance intermediaries' commission ranges between 7% and even up to 20%. Thus, for insurance undertakings, the cost of obtaining insurance from such an address is virtually higher than the total overhead remaining for the insurance undertaking. In the case of the insurance premium, for example, one million euros is also a commission of 200,000 euros. So you can imagine a broker who was a "one man band" who was already a salesman in one of Slovenia's insurance companies, decided on the basis of the law that this is the way, that is to say, on the way of the broker, he has a good friend in which the CEO of a large company, which has a large enough premium, sign the contract - and inserts in his pocket between 7% and 20% of the premium! Well, in Prekmurje we'd call it "guilty without a motika." So you practically don't have to do anything, and you put a few 100,000 euros in your pocket. Insurance intermediaries with such legislation as now, i.e. the fee payer is an insurance company, are gradually increasingly in control of the insurance market. Their interest is not quality insurance, covering the insured, but primarily their own property interests. On the one hand, insurance companies are willing to pay ever higher fees in the pursuit of maintaining or increasing market share, while brokers, on the other hand, are exploiting the situation and investing less energy in quality insurance services, but are only blackmailing by transferring portfolios to another insurance company or even demanding so-called portfolio fees. The increase in fees will have consequences in the increased premium, which, or if you want, we will also have to pay the insured in the final stage, which is not very encouraging in these times of crisis. The quality of the broker's work would only come to light when payment for their work was made by the primary contracting authority, that is, the insurer as the holder. A step further would constitute a legal provision that the insurance policy received by the insurance intermediary from the insurance undertaking in respect of the insurance contract in which it was provided should be indicated on the insurance half. Therefore, it is certainly now an opportunity to introduce certain changes in the law in this area, which will lead mainly to greater transparency, not least to greater competition between brokers themselves, but also to greater independence of individual entities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr. Willy Trophynik has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, first of all, it's principled. The law itself, as such, is not a problem, but the fact that Directive 2007/44, which is the fundamental reason for the proposed legislative amendments, was in force in September 2007 and that the deadline for its implementation expires in the second half of March of this year, can be found that we are relatively late in adopting this law and should not be comforted or comforted by the fact that it is possible to understand from the explanation that the other members do not know much more about this implementation of these and similar Directives. Second. In the explanatory memorandum itself, as has already been said and repeatedly pointed out today, the reason for the amendment of the law is the directive. However, if we go to the correlation table, which is meticulously prepared and that a variety of responses, we can find that only 12 out of 34 articles refer to the implementation of the directive, so that 22 out of 34, or two thirds, are not directly related to the implementation of the directive. This in itself is nothing wrong. The President spoke about some urgent changes to the law in general in view of the developments in practice, but we would expect that, under the terms of reference, I apologize, "to hide" but to make it clear that we are taking advantage of the opportunity to implement the directive, which must be done, even to correct the law for other reasons and why; in principle. Among these 22 articles, which do not concern the implementation of the Directive, I will use only one to discuss it. This is Article 16 of the amendment to the Insurance Act, which reads as an excuse: In Article 49, the first paragraph shall be amended to read: "The proceeds shown in the annual report may be distributed to members or transferred to the following financial year to the extent not required for: firstly, the creation of security reserves; secondly, the formation of others, by the statute of certain reserves, which may be used in particular to cover losses; for those risks which may result in obligations for the mutual insurance company; for the provision of capital in the case of insurance transactions in other insurance types; for the provision of capital in the case of insurance transactions in another insurance group and for other purposes set out in the Statute; or thirdly, the return of the fixed capital or for other payments laid down in the Statute. What's this all about? Among our insurance companies is also a specialised insurance company called Mutual and which is intended to operate according to the principle of reciprocity in particular. In the past, there have been some complications with this insurance company, so we think that by law we should sanction this special role of mutual insurance, by limiting the use of profit, and that it should not be "so free", forgive the term "by Kosovo" that the statute also allows the use of profits - in quotations - "for other purposes" - because the Mutual is based on some other principles and is fundamentally guided that profit should go in favour of the basic mission - that I will not propose and go into detail. I think that this is also an opportunity for us to consider in detail the status of the Mutual, its tasks in the next stages of the adoption process, and to identify them appropriately in the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirko Brulc has the floor. Please. Thank you. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Chairman. I think this is an important law which is basically a transposition of the European directive into our space. We attach this to it, and we will certainly have different concerns and difficulties to be identified in detail in the consideration of the law, which I consider to be a good basis for further work, by the changes in the law and the amendment, in order to finally achieve the basic objective that insurance represents; that is, when we are in crisis, when the problems, the burden of that moment and the crisis are more easily overcome and overcome. Therefore, the reflection announced by colleagues from the party Zares is still in place. It is also necessary to fully define and adjust obligations and, above all, the rights of owners that they are not too large. In our country we have already had some of these cases, of course it is easy to say that being a good owner of an insurance company and its insurer is sometimes quite expensive or too expensive. In our lives, we have many cases when we see that it is good and necessary, but if people have their assets protected, we are assured that when extraordinary events occur, we can get through these problems more easily. Therefore, as a parliamentary group, and also in our own name, a law that is a good basis for further discussion, we will support and later look for solutions that are best for the purpose of achieving it, that the insurance company means a way out in trouble and hardship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr. Marjan Bezjak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u30	Nicely greeted! Mr President of the National Assembly, Mr Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! I support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Insurance Act in person, as well as the party. This is actually the first step that will work or make insurance undertakings competitive or equal to European insurance companies. We are already thinking today, and we will begin to prepare actually certain amendments that would actually be an upgrade to this law. For we can be aware, as colleagues have already said, of certain things that may be harmful. I absolutely agree, as I have already proposed to President Pahor at the November meeting on the single systems and on the importance of single systems and on the sharing of profits and prizes of the supervisory councils and so on. This is, of course, an important step forward towards reducing the actual costs for our country in which we live. The second important thing is that, after all, insurance companies remain competitive and can also go to foreign markets that have somehow been restricted in the current law. I'd like to touch the system the insurance companies have with the brokers. There is no way I can understand that brokers can offer a lower insurance price than the insurance companies themselves actually offer. It's a sign of something that smells like that, if I may say so. This is important, and we will stand here to prevent these things from happening with the law and the amendments that are actually happening. That's what a fellow magician is about. The crane told the principles that I won't repeat myself. And here are those things that are very important and that need to be touched. I'd also like to talk about the Mutual. It's a mutual insurance company, kind of made out of reciprocity. I think it's very important here that the Mutual Insurance Company, which actually pays for the health insurance of people, is patients. Here goes the opaque money from this cash register to certain individuals, and certainly not to citizens. And here are things where we can appreciate where we can take a step forward for the welfare of Slovenia. I personally believe that this is the beginning of this law and I support it. And in the coming days, we're actually going to be putting in amendments to change that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor. [[He's quitting.]] Mr Istok Podkrižnik has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u32	Dear President, Minister and colleagues! In the SDS Group, we believe that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Insurance Act is appropriate. The solution in the bill is also that it offers the possibility of a single management system. Therefore, a compliment to the applicant for a move to enable Slovenian insurance companies to choose. Why is the bill an opportunity for our insurance companies? Above all, here I am referring to the advantages, the clear division of powers, effective control, the intensity of communication among members of the committee. Success depends primarily on people and not on systems. So here are the important people who run these systems, and I think that's the key. The active role of capital owners, capital is a burden, and the market is their master, who rewards well and eliminates poorly. The Slovenian Democratic Party, as it is said, will vote in favour of the proposal being suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Kampush has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u34	Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues! Yeah, the marriage comes in good time. I'm guessing my predecessors have handled most things. But of course insurance is not only insurance, but it is also another activity, such as, for example, following the example of our Austrian neighbours. In 2008, Slovenia, and at the same time Pomurje, experienced largely captures, accidents, storms and so on. There were a lot of ruined crops. And when we asked the locals how our Austrian neighbours are dealing with these issues, we found an important point - that in Austria the financial consequence of protection against hail is exclusively on insurance companies. I also wondered how much this budget is so that the planes can be ready, that even the pilots, who are mostly our Slovenians, who are on duty and, of course, at appropriate times, when they also need to be intervened, are ready to do so and thus reduce the possibility of capture in their area. This budget is about two million euros. In 2008, our insurance companies paid their insurers around 100 million euros together. So: at first reading today is an opportunity to try to animate all those responsible for this - that is, the agricultural ministry and some others - to understand and try to make a proposal for a second reading, in order to try to arrange these matters for us in Slovenia. Not only for Pomurje, for the whole of Slovenia - because I am sure that the financial situation would, of course, pay off to insurance companies. This is a proposal I've made several times. I will try to make sure that everyone understands it and that they try to involve it or in some way at least indirectly influence the insurance lobby or those who "de facto" stand for us in Slovenia to try to go in this direction. Because the proceeds would have insurance and, of course, all the insurance companies themselves. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr. Rado Likar has the floor, please. He's not here, I'm sorry. Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor. He's quitting. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I guess not. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to decide that the draft law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, decide on Thursday, 29 January 2009, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. At the end of the day, this is the first defence proposal for a law amending the law on value added tax in the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was submitted to the National Assembly by a member of the Magi. Andrej Vizjak. With regard to this bill, a group of 25 Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. I give my word to the proposaler of the Magi Act. Andrei Vissiak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u36	Honourable President of Parliament, Honourable Minister, Fellow Members, Fellow Members and Fellow Members, Members and Members of Parliament. In Slovenia, the consequences of the financial crisis show: for the first time, in the difficult access of banks to interbank loans, which of course reduces the level of resources needed to finance entrepreneurial ongoing and investment activities, which is why more and more companies are facing liquidity problems, and the reduction or postponement of already envisaged investment plans for a later period is expected. Secondly, it appears in the decline in foreign demand that directly affects the Slovenian export sector, in particular producers, exporters, durable goods and indirectly the effects of the entire Slovenian economy. Economic policy measures in response to the consequences of the financial crisis must act and deliver concrete results in a relatively short period of time. This is very important to maintain the condition, developmental orientation and orientation towards promoting domestic economic activity and indirect exports. Measures that are therefore not driven into a very short-term effect can, of course, have a good effect, but they do work long-term and will not have key effects to mitigate these specific problems. Of course, the government has the potential to develop economic policy measures in response to the changing economic situation and has in particular two key groups of these measures. The first group is economic policy measures in a relatively stable economic situation as a result of the financial crisis. This crisis is reflected in slowing down economic growth. I think that we are still in this period, that is to say, at a time when there is no recession, when there is no decline in the scale of economic activity in the country, but this is slowed down. Measures for this period are different from economic policy measures in a tight economic situation when we have a recession in the country. Of course, we have options, even a bunch of measures in one segment and in the other, and some of these measures have already been debated in this House. I am very sad that the law or amendment of the value added tax law, which we proposed some month ago or more ago, was not adopted for the first segment of the measures, i.e. measures in a relatively stable economic situation, to help the economy in particular in the liquidity segment, which is felt by the real sector because of the failure of the interbank market and, consequently, credit-crunch. Therefore, we propose once again to the Government and to the well-respected colleagues in the coalition a change in order to return the value added tax to businesses before 60 days after the bill. We propose seven days, as we suggested at first. Why did we decide for seven days? Because there are some such good European practices. 5 days Estonia, Ireland, the Netherlands, about 10 days or up to 10 days. Of course, these short-term repayments can only be made in certain cases where there are no obvious reasons for caution in the sky, when there may be later embezzlement or abuse of these short-term payment periods. We therefore propose that this measure provide the Slovenian economy with the necessary liquidity at the expense of the liquidity of state finances. We think that the real sector is that the economy is the one where liquidity has to worry us the most and, of course, the state budget. I hope, Sir, that the first reading of this law will bring a slightly more encouraging prospect for final adoption below the procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u37	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Here you go, Mr. Dr. McKinley. Franz Križanič, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u38	Dear Members and Members! Allow me to make a brief introduction to the Government's opinion on this point. The Magnificent Messenger. Andrej Vizjak submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for a law amending the Law to add value with the aim of improving the liquidity of the Slovenian economy. The draft law is submitted to the National Assembly in the same text as was submitted by Member Rudolf Petan on 22 December 2008. Mr Petan's proposal was rejected by the National Assembly at its meeting on 14 January 2009 as inappropriate for further consideration. Member Andrej Vizjak reiterates his proposal to reduce the time limit for the refund of the value added tax in cases where the taxable person on the basis of the VAT bill claims the State, from 60 or 30 days to 7 days. They've got 30 days of exporters today. As we have pointed out in the previous examination of the law, the proposal has been examined by the Government in terms of the control of VAT accounts and the actual implementation of VAT refunds and has found that the proposed changes in the light of the two criteria examined cannot be supported. The proposed amendment significantly shortens the time to control the VAT bill, in particular the control of the most risky taxpayers involved in tax wheel fraud. In addition, the time for effective VAT recovery is substantially reduced. On the other hand, the reduction in the VAT refund deadline would have an impact both on the liquidity shortfall in public financial revenues during the year and on the increase in the budget deficit for the year in the amount of the two-month VAT refund, which, according to the average monthly amount of returns in 2008, represents 0.08 GDP or one-tenth of a percentage of GDP. The Government is of the opinion that such an additional deficit in the State budget at this time cannot be replaced by other resources. Notwithstanding the above, the Government shall examine the possibility of shortening the deadline so as not to increase the tax risk in the control of taxpayers and that the necessary liquid assets may be provided. A proposal for a possible solution will be submitted by the Government to the National Assembly in its consideration of the budget balance. In view of the above, the Government does not support the proposed solutions of Mr Andrej Visiak and considers that the law is not suitable for further consideration. In our studies, we are currently targeting a given tax administration information system for 21 days of return, for both exporters and others. How this will be done depends on austerity measures or whether Members will make this a very high priority. In the rebalancing debate, some part of the investments in the budget may have to be missed, and we will not find any other resources to remain within the Stability and Growth Pact as a stable and safe economy interesting to investors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u39	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Villa Trofenik has the floor, on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. Nothing new, you could say. The same marriage, roughly the same situation, so there is nothing new to be said. However, the proposed amendment to the Value Added Tax Act represents one of the most meaningful and necessary measures. I would stress, not only in the given circumstances, but the 60-day deadline for returning the value added tax is generally unacceptable. The proposed measure is therefore not logical at first sight, but at least three conditions must be provided for its implementation, namely the accelerated control of the value added tax, the relevant information system in the tax administration and the provision of a bridge to the deficit in the 2009 or the year when this novelty would have been implemented. It is incorrect to state that the law has no financial implications. It has liquidity and is known in the current budget. Thus, this year's decline would amount to about €300 million in the context of the 60-day deadline, and in the event of a 30-day cut-off, half of it would be €150 million. That doesn't matter. Without the provision of a new information system, without overcoming the deficit of budgetary resources, of course, it is not possible at this time to support not only at first sight, but even a meaningful proposal for legislative changes, which will be possible and necessary as soon as possible after meeting the three conditions mentioned above. Therefore, at this point in time, we cannot support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Rezman has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. With regard to the VAT law, there is a dilemma in our parliamentary group. We have also made them clear in the past, and we intend to do so today. First of all, it must be said that the proposal for a law before us, which was already before us for the first time in December, tried what the economy had already demanded in the last year, to bring in the form of a bill and therefore to receive support in the National Assembly. When we think about this law, we think that these are the ambitions of the economy and not of the two opposition Members. So these two have formalised it in such a way that they have adducted it, adopted it, and presented some intention of the economy in such a legal form in the proposal of this law. The Chamber of Commerce did so by writing its requests to the Government last year in a brochure and also making them public. The Chamber of Commerce did it the same way. You can take the publication into your hands and read the various measures. One such measure is also this measure, and they are not talking about a seven-day deadline, but about a ten-day deadline, which is a formal error in this bill, because ten for those major exporters are forecasting, and later this is not recorded in the articles, but well, this is a minor problem. And later all employers signed a memorandum where a similar requirement appears before our government. We and ourselves take this requirement personally as a requirement of our Slovenian economy. Therefore, we have serious concerns that we would simply reject contact with our economy so that we do not do everything necessary to see this liquidity shock, which the economy is experiencing now, somehow, loosened, and this measure that we are proposing today is one of the many possible measures. The government has also drawn up its proposals, announced that this will take place in waves, i.e. in several packages, where everyone, i.e. opposition and coalition MPs and Members, can think about whether they have been chosen best and right, which will later be confirmed by our economic practice, and whether the pace and order of individual measures have been appropriate. I'll be honest with you. I'm a little doubtful about that. Therefore, the opposition Members expressed their dissatisfaction with these measures, which were presented by the Government, by filing twice the same, almost the same, is not exactly the same as the one in which the comma is moved, the law. Support for this requirement on the part of the economy is likely to be clear. However, support within the National Assembly has also been expressed between some Members and members of the coalition during the in-place period. It is said that the proposal is not entirely meaningless. The Minister also speaks of the idea, the intention of the right, that it is a problem of dynamics, of placing in public finances, etc. I myself, to remind you, on behalf of the DeSUS Group, wanted to table an amendment on the Committee, which, if adopted, would alleviate the pressure on public finances, and would have been involved in a number of support from coalition Members and Members, and later, after the suspension of the meeting and after coordination, would have withdrawn its proposal on one condition that the Minister would, in the context of the preparation of the rebalancing, that is, a similar or even better measure, present it to the National Assembly and also implement it. Unfortunately, this has been assessed by me and, according to the DeSUS Group's assessment, has now been cut short. We believe that the promise made publicly has not been fully realized. The promise that this could happen about a month later or two or three months later, I take it as a smoke that I don't put much on. This happened to me once before; I'd say we blew into a smoke that didn't have the right weight; recently. Therefore, DeSUS considers that the requirement of the economy is justified to modify it correctly, taking into account the sustainability of the public finances and the budget and the balance and all that we still have in mind. However, as we believe, some of the proposalers' demands are also problematic, particularly from the point of view of origin. I will now quote the thoughts set out in the introduction, which say that the Slovenian economy is currently in a good position. Very few would likely be able to find them, at least those who deal with the economy, who would be euphoric over the situation and processes in the Slovenian economy. Here I think the evaluation of the applicants was wrong. The recorded data, accurate as will be the economic growth in 2009, as copied from some past assessments, are incorrect and were wrong at the time of the first marriage on 22 December. And today or January 15, when it was re-invested, they are so much more wrong because they show that it was not the right will to face at least the real situation and the assessments. The assessment that there is no way to talk about any recession in Slovenia is not something that we would give our consent to. It seems that the proponents have overlooked that the economic situation is neither good in the world nor in Europe and not in us and that the real picture is therefore slightly different from that recorded in the introduction. They seem to have overlooked that economic activity is declining, at least in a trendy way, if, in absolute terms, someone wants to challenge it, it is therefore a recession. Symptoms are typical of recessionary processes, because they are about increasing stocks, buying down orders, reducing the value of shares, reducing exports, reducing sales prices, increasing unemployment, freezing credit flows and thus stopping investments. These are all symptoms that speak of us being able to talk about recessional trends and that this economic situation in us and in the world is not good. If that were not the case, then there would also be no reason to deal with specific measures, which should also be "turned" in the short term. The measures that are expected are also typical of anti-recessive measures. Indeed, major investments by the State and other public finances are expected. It is therefore an ambition to increase public procurement and it is an ambition, clearly expressed, so that taxes and contributions are reduced. All of this goes in the context of thinking about recession. In DeSUS, therefore, we do not agree that our economy is now in good shape, let alone optimal. We believe that it would be appropriate to put the measures proposed through the sieve in today's treatment and to complement or improve them later if the Government has better proposals. We'll be thrilled with the next, better proposals. However, we do not want this to be delayed, so that this will continue to conform to some criteria and preconditions that we will always be able to complement and will never be implemented. That is why we believe or ensure that there will be no full support for the government proposal to reject this law in the DeSUS Group of Members. And at the end of the day, I think of yesterday's article and a quote from one of our officers, who repeats one of the American presidents' thoughts that it is a recession when a neighbor loses his job, when you lose him for depression yourself. And it would probably be pointless to deny depressing processes for as long as we are not all without jobs and economic projects. So, in DeSUS, we're going to vote each on our own conscience. I assure myself that the proposal to reject this will not be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u44	Thank you again for the floor, Mr Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Dear Minister! The Slovenian national party does not want any policy in this context. Take this as evidence, I will express the same criticism, not criticism, an assessment as I did on the home work body on the proposal for a law amending the Value Added Tax Act on behalf of the Slovenian National Party. Mr President, first Mr Petan and Mr Visjak! We would be happy if you, a few months ago, when you were in power, thought about it and perhaps tried such suggestions at the time. We have already said this, but today we take a proposal for good and expect the government to listen. I give an example, the Slovenian National Party does not want to harm; I give one case purely in another area; Croatia, when entering the European Union, but wants to use Slovenia. It's the same here. There's no politics here. We want to help solve the recession and Dr. Franz Krizanič, I know for a long time, I appreciate him, I will appreciate him as a man and as an economist, and I believe he has the will to help. I also believe that he knows that we want to participate in this assistance. We do. My modest belief, because I cannot measure myself according to my knowledge with him, is that right now we can help in the areas we are talking about; even if we start with the proposal for a law amending the Value Added Tax Act; we can help with all the changes in the tax areas, in the reduction of investment taxes, in the acceleration of the process, the consumer who will return some production cycle. And it's not politics. The Slovenian national party will also be happy to support the amendment bill as it is at the home labour body, at the hearings. You know, I'm giving a comparison, the mayor, like many colleagues, which upsets me the most, if I say, I don't know if we're saying this, and that's what I have to do, and when I expect a report, I get an answer, and that's not possible. You're going crazy. You're colleagues, and you know that's not working. I have listened attentively to the Minister and I have heard that the reasons why this proposal is inappropriate are the following: that there is no control, and that there are possibilities, both of which are not marriageable. That liquidity would be the state budget outage and that there would be a budget deficit. But you know, I'm sorry, lazily, as a representative of the people, I'm gonna say, there can't be a budget deficit with money that's not ours. I can't have a budget hole with money that's not mine. This value-added tax money is not state-owned, it is the property of the State that must repay it. There can't be a budget hole, easy. However, there can be liquidity deficits if the state is counting on it to help itself with this money and I am in favour of helping the country in a successful economic time if we solve the bigger problem, but we will not. That is why I cannot accept that, at the very least, I can accept that we do not have, or that we cannot, an information system that would allow, within seven days, such as the proposal of this law, this overpaid value added tax to be paid. I can't believe it. I have Slovenia for a very developed country, one of the most developed in the European Union. But certainly, with all due respect, I love Estonia madly, I was in Estonia, and I'm happy to go, and I know a lot of people there. But we're certainly more developed and more capable than the Estonians, but they have 7 days, and we can't have them. I don't understand that. Even the Dutch, I don't know, the Irish have 7 to 10, the UK has 30 days, and these proposals have been given. So if we can't do this right now, let's at least show our will and say we can do it in the shortest possible time. I believe that this information system is the power to establish within one month. And I believe that, not least through the budget, if necessary, if we are to help the economy, it can also by withdrawing certain funds. But once again, we can't tell you that there's going to be a budget hole because we're going to get the money back to whoever belongs to him. That's no excuse, ladies and gentlemen. It is good that we have 60 days of money in a pile that is not ours, but we are turning it around, of course in good economic times, and today whoever expects that money wants it hard every euro; I want to say tolar, but I would like to say tolar; I would like to say that every tolar is needed for further economic drive. Any loan that the bank can give to an ordinary man, not to a tycoon, is necessary today in order for consumption to start climbing and new production to be made at that expense. We need to react at certain times. Today. And do not take this law now that it has been tabled by the biggest opposition party on purpose, politically against the largest party in the world, because I believe that colleagues have the same opinion in their positions of mind. If I waited for too much money today, depending on how high it is, I'd also be angry and I'd be waiting for it and I'd like you to return it to me today. Because, you know, what I have to pay as a consumer, as a man as a Slovenian, I have to pay right now, and what belongs back to me, but I always have to wait, always. Companies have to pay workers when they own them. But waiting and waiting for the services these workers have done, it is not a pleasant feeling. And I'm gonna say what I already said twice. Let us be so fair that they will pay us for this month in the National Assembly not on February 5th, but we will receive payment on April 5th. Let us be for this, and we will receive it on April 5th, because if we receive it on February 5th, it will be a budget hole. Come on, we all love pay, pay for work done, that's one try. The Slovenian National Party shall support it. Not because they're the authors of the biggest opposition party. Once again, I would like to stress that if the applicants could be in a position not for 7 days, but for 10 days, I would like to undermine them and commend them. But he's not there and he's refusing and there's no way. There's no will. Let's be honest. On February 5th, we want our salary. Those who have overpaid value added tax and need money in this crisis want money as soon as possible if it's not 7 days, let it be 10 if it can't be 10, let it be 21. And we'll back everyone up. For promises to wait, we'll change our promises, but once we can, we can't. By supporting this proposal for a law in the Slovenian National Party, we will only demonstrate the will and desire for this order of payments to be regulated in this country. This will be an expression of our will, and we will support every proposal that the Government will also make, I know that, Madam Minister, I will say once again that I appreciate it very much, that it will once again come out because it will be necessary to give it. And we'll back him up. But maybe this incentive, this proposal on your part, will help to make it tomorrow, not in 2011. In the Slovenian National Party, we support the proposal for a law amending the Value Added Tax Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Radovan Žerjav on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr Minister and co-workers, Members and Members of Parliament. We have before us a law with exactly the same content, which has already been rejected at the last extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. In our view, it is a simple solution by which funds owned by Slovenian companies are sought in accordance with technical capabilities to return to these companies as soon as possible. According to our assessment, it is an effective and very simple measure, since we do not burden the country with it either, because it is not a means to be owned by it. In the context of the debate held on the working body in the context of the examination of the previous identical proposal of the law, Minister Dr. Franz Križanič said, quote: "If we put this as something that can be very helpful to the economy, then it is the deadline that would be feasible in the current information infrastructure of the Tax Administration, that is its opinion, then this deadline is 30 days. This is the strategic decision of this committee and this Parliament. 30 days may be feasible if this is taken into account as a measure which is intended to substantially help. It means 150 million outages in 2009, Circus 0.4% of gross domestic product." This was, of course, the prime minister's position at the time, despite which the Government was not prepared to correct the bill in the cited direction. The promise was that this would be done during the preparation of the 2009 budget rebalancing. The main argument of the government's opposition to the coalition was a fiscal argument that this would constitute a risk of an excessive increase in the deficit in 2009, which would jeopardise the fulfilment of the Maastricht criteria. We have not agreed on this argument recently and we cannot agree today. Solving the liquidity problems of the budget at the expense of the liquidity of taxpayers is simply unacceptable in these times. Therefore, at this point in time, we propose to confirm the proposed law as an appropriate basis for further consideration and to adapt it accordingly in the second reading, in accordance with our capabilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Borut Saiovic, on behalf of the LDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. All together a nice greeting, especially to the minister with his coworkers! We have been dealing with this law for quite some time at the LDS, and we also have different opinions. We certainly support his spirit and long-term performance. However, there is one major problem, mainly because of the lack of this 150 million in public finances at this moment represents a serious problem. We have also been the initiators and proponents of coalition coordination. With the Minister and colleagues, we have poured pure wine on us, and our knowledge of this is that it solves a problem on the one hand and opens up a lot of other problems in public finances. However, we strongly welcome the thought of the Minister, who is also working hard in this story. At the Ministry, they came to the realization that there would be a real time frame in which we could review and close the story for about 21 days, and that's fine. At this point, however, there are concerns and problems about what the story means in public finances, where 150 million euros at the moment is quite nice money, as well as all due respect. Many investments are being made in this country, which are still important in these times of crisis, mainly due to their countercyclical impact. And if we move two or three months ahead, or postpone, we do damage in this area. We also estimate that the tax offenders in this country and these "missing traders" are not so many that the tax administration is not able to control them within three weeks. We have also made a word and a promise that during this year, and certainly in 2009, we will try to resolve and close this matter for sure. It is also certainly necessary to know that this world, which is spinning and will continue to spin, is working in the area of deferred payments. And if we look at this policy as citizens and citizens, we all want to pay our bills at the end of the month, after we have taken advantage of all phone impulses, impulses of electricity, water or more and pay back. We have similar policies in the congregations and in the country. Once the service is performed, of course, we pay it with a certain delay and reservation. This real delay must be taken into account when it is good for us and it is good for us and we like it, even when we cannot meet it. Therefore, in the LDS, the reasons cited by the applicant are convincing, reasoned, particularly in the part where we speak that this change would significantly improve the liquidity of the Slovenian economy. That's true, and there's no comment on that. I already mentioned that the government didn't fully convince us. That by an argument to monitor the accounts and verify the eligibility of claims for reimbursement, the deadline can be reduced. And we're the only ones here. We have also given serious attention to the government's concerns about what this means for public finances. We therefore hope that some of the solutions can already be found in the 2009 budget rebalancing proposal. But if not that moment, maybe in the near future, some other time. So, of course, we understand each other. And we will vote in the parliamentary group as always, each on our own conscience. But there will probably be a majority of the votes such that this moment to enforce solutions, unfortunately, due to public finances, is not yet the time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Ms Renata Brunskole has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u50	Once again, all of you, welcome. I present to you the position of the Group of Social Democrats. The reduction of payment deadlines makes sense, but not at the expense of reducing tax control, as this would result in less detection of tax wheel fraud. The proposed measure would also result in a significant loss of resources for the state budget, which means that the government would run out of resources to provide some important measures to reduce the impact of the financial crisis. For this reason, we agree that the proposed law is rejected. However, the government should consider reducing payment deadlines, in a way that will not result in a reduction in tax control and will not result in a greater loss of resources for the state budget. A reduction in the repayment period, from 60 or 30 to 7 days, would also result in a significant liquidity outflow of public financial revenues. In particular, in the month following the change, it would be necessary to provide funds for VAT reimbursement a month earlier. As a result of the proposed changes, 2008 data would reduce VAT revenue, as has already been said several times, by around €150 to € 160 million. This means that the proposed measure should lead to the cutting of funds somewhere. I'm also wondering, how would we do that right now? While the Government has already amended the Tax Procedure Act to ensure that legal persons are under an ongoing reduction in the burden of legal persons by determining the amount of tax inflows from legal persons for 2009 can take into account the rate of tax that will apply in 2009 and not the rate of tax in the previous year, which is the regulation in force. In this way, the amount of tax advances paid will be closer to the amount of tax to be paid in 2010 on the basis of the tax accounts. The proposed measure will relieve the economy of liquidity. On the basis of corporate income tax calculations, the economy will be burdened with liquidity by around EUR 50 million per year. Due to the need to use money and funds in a rational manner to target measures to mitigate the consequences of the financial crisis, and because the law would exacerbate the control of taxpayers, amendments to the Value Added Tax Act are not appropriate for further consideration. It should also be recalled that the Bank of Slovenia has pointed out that Slovenia's debt of over 3% of the deficit will already be more difficult, and the international credit rating company Coface reduced its credit rating on 19 January 2009 due to the consequences of the financial and economic crisis in Slovenia. However, lowering the credit rating means that the country and the economy will be more difficult and more cost-effective abroad, which will have a counter-incentive effect on the promotion of economic growth. Therefore, caution should be exercised as the proposed law would increase the deficit even further. Let me repeat the mags' opinion. Mr Kamnar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, who delivered it at the last meeting on this debate. She said, quote: "If the proposed proposal were accepted, this would only increase the budget deficit in 2009 from the current 2.4% to the current 2.4%, without the additional commitments that will prove necessary in the rebalancing to 3.2% of the gross social product. If we add about 1% of the deficit of other units in the state sector that are relevant to the assessment of the fiscal criteria after the Maastricht, then we would come up with a deficit that would severely exceed 4%." I think that, despite a situation that is not truly favourable to the economy or the financial system, it would be very difficult to defend such a large deficit at this time. I therefore reiterate that this year's proposal, in such an extent and in such a form, is absolutely not acceptable. In this regard, we would also be reduced again by Slovenia's credit rating. The shortening of deadlines will be easier when the new Dursa information system is actually in place, which will speed up control and shorten the deadlines. For all of this, the proposed law is therefore inappropriate for further consideration. When financial options are allowed, we believe that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will itself propose changes to the law and appropriate reduction of deadlines, since the economy is as successful as possible in the interest of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Andrej Vizjak on behalf of the SDS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u52	Thank you very much. The Slovenian Democratic Party will support the proposal for a new law. Why? Because he is looking for solutions in a given situation when things in the Slovenian economy get worse and when companies need liquid money like Ssahara water. Because the Slovenian Democratic Party is not looking in every proposal for reasons why something cannot be done, as we have heard several times today, but how we can help and go the other way. I can find many reasons why something can't be done for any proposal that will rumble into Parliament and is good. But we won't do it because we don't want to do it. We want to look for positive solutions and positive proposals that will have in the first light or at the front of solving what is most needed is the liquidity of the Slovenian economy, especially those who invest and are most concerned with this amendment of the Value Added Tax Act. Today, however, we have also heard or heard an argument to reject these proposals, a number of concerns that are tantamount to the state budget and the liquidity of public finances. Where does the full state budget come from, where does the liquidity in the state budget come from? From the economy. It's about as if we don't have to worry about, I don't know, some plant that gives us fruit, but we would just worry about how we pick these fruits, pick them up, and see if they're enough. But how we're going to fertilize, how we're going to trim, how we're going to take care of this plant, and how we're going to do it in our second priority, is not our first priority. And that's where we're different. That's all. And it is right for the public and the economy to hear what we differ in knowing that the state budget will be in one year, because we are only talking about the loss of public funds in one year, in the first year after its entry into force, because in the coming years this problem will no longer be and I think that this problem can be solved. This problem can be solved without flexing any projects to make them, indeed, with a slightly more flexible way of paying obligations. The parishioners sitting here know well that there is no need to pay in November, but it can also be paid in January and similarly depending on the situation of the activity. Therefore, it is not true that the result of such a measure is an increase in the deficit for 2009, this is simply not true if we want to do so responsibly. And there's one more thing. We're here to discuss it as if it were state resources. This isn't about state funds. These are the funds of the companies which were overpaid and had to be taken away by the companies when they paid the entry tax and which belong to them after the calculation. And we're talking about giving it back early. And now you're convincing me here that the deficit and the Maastricht and the credibility of the country are at risk because it would be fair or unfair because they would normally treat the economy and give it back what it belongs to and what it does. And it's really hard then to swallow these arguments against who are searching, why reject something because it came from the wrong kinds. In fact, this measure could very well coincide with the budget rebalancing. If you let him go, members of the coalition, through, he will be in the second reading at the end of February, if not at the beginning of March, because it seems to me that the first regular meeting is in early March. And I hope, according to the Ministry of Finance, that we will see a rebalance in mid-February or late February in Parliament. And then we will decide in Parliament whether we will introduce a 7-day repayment period or a 10-day recovery period or a 14-day recovery period or a 21-day recovery period, it's open. The law is therefore in the ordinary procedure in order to be able to correct or amend it in accordance with the political will. I often hear that it takes courage to solve the crisis - no, it does not take courage, not will, it takes money to solve the crisis. Anyone who thinks that only with his hot attitude and his populistly saving symbolic measures will be able to help him out of the crisis is in the devil's way. You can get out of the crisis if you untie the scrotum, if you give the economy what it needs. And I am sure that the economy needs, in particular, money for business, to maintain its condition and to in some cases even upgrade this condition in terms of looking for opportunities. Several times, ministers, current governments and previous governments have made it very clear that there is a large, large source of problem in the non-operation of the financial system, the interbank market and some very slow or would say limited bank-to-economy credit activities. That's changing a little bit now. I have to say, when I listen to the real sector or when we look at how these measures have been taken, as far as foreign banks are concerned; it is interesting that foreign banks in Slovenia are slightly more active than domestic banks; because there is a great deal of caution in paying off loans that are due soon this year. And it is the domestic banking system, which is supposed to serve the Slovenian economy the most, that is a little more cramped than foreign financial institutions. These are the current data I have from the real sector today. And this measure, when companies had their money in their accounts earlier, is certainly very much like a measure, like getting long-term liquid assets or getting a loan because they get the money that the country has been turning for them for some time. Clearly, measures to promote the financial market have not been taken enough and have not been taken enough. Some convertible capital can be obtained, loans, months, two, but long-term loans for investments cannot be obtained, not today in the financial market in the Republic of Slovenia. I hear the Minister of Finance has plans with these bonds. I think that this is a good, necessary step, and the question whether we will be able to sell and have money under the terms of this bond. Therefore, in my view, it is not too much to consider another possibility for the state to be in debt. As we have heard yesterday's Finance Minister, the state debt is in a relatively favourable position; the state is not unduly indebted to other comparable candidates of the European Union; and this money is distributed to banks through recapitalisation or similar measures, and this money is further distributed to the real sector for long-term development projects. However, of course these measures must be immediately, it is not enough to wait for these measures, I do not know that it will be six months from now, and in six years we will be able to take other measures, when we are actually taking measures from the recession out. Now we have measures to mitigate the consequences of the crisis or how to keep the economy fit, how to maintain investment activity, how to maintain industrial production. Not how to lift something from the bottom, but how not to get down. These are different measures. I wanted to say this more than once, but some are just going more "lococepic" in the text of the bill. 150 million more in the real sector or in the economy at the expense of the state budget spinning, I think it is an important measure. Today, I have heard everyone who has spoken, no one has disputed that this measure would not be good. Some coalition parties, not all of them, thank God, have only the thought that, as I would say, the consequences of public finances are problematic. It weighs, in a coalition, while having liquid money to the economy or having liquid money in the country. And you decided, obviously, to have it with you rather than to give it to the one who needs it most today. This is my basic fear that you are unable to face the seriousness of the situation. That's the problem. I'm sorry, even if someone feels a little bit, I don't know, 'papagasy' to put one and the same proposals into this House and we'll be investing in the future, because I think they can help, receive and solve part of the problem. Well, one more time! To solve the crisis, well, you must, of course, have in addition to knowing what you are doing, including money. Courage isn't enough. Or maybe courage is too little. And also the Ministry's arguments, if we wait for the rebalancing and then we'll see what we're cutting off and what we're not cutting off, indicate some kind of tactics, some dynamics in dealing with a crisis that I don't think is effective. That's what they say. Step by step, with certain measures to be taken. I think we should go at a time when we felt walking economic growth, now we are deep down in this period, with a strong remedy, with a strong package of measures that would of course have a quick effect. Here we now have a tactic that, in addition to some of the bad draft laws such as full-time subsidisation, another package is proposed, which is intended to be symbolically saving nature and at the same time a budget rebalancing. We are all aware that the balance of the budget, when it comes to additional money, either for technological development, research and development and so on, will not fall until six months later, because I almost cannot imagine that it would be possible to say that this money will reach what it is intended for, sooner than half a year. The invitation, the choice, has to do something, and only then can he get the money. So, of course, there are no advances and some advance payments. So this is where we're different. We differ according to the measures and differ according to the dynamics of the adoption, enforcement and also by the extent of these measures. I'm telling you. It seems insufferable to read daily about higher wages, in that cabinet, in the public sector and so on, that we will now, of course, share more or less openly here, and, on the other hand, in public finances, we are looking for a reason to support the economy where the economy is united. This measure welcomes all the associations involved. And not just that. This measure is fully in line with the recommendations of the tax profession. For if too much tax is collected, it must be returned as soon as possible. But not to stir it up and take care of your problems and thereby prevent the one who actually provides public finances. So, respectable! The bill is primarily made out of concern for the situation in which the Slovenian financial system is located and, last but not least, of concern for the activities of credit institutions and the ability of businesses to obtain credits. Since the situation has not changed significantly in a positive direction in a month, since we last introduced this law, we have reinstated this law. And believe me, we will do everything we can to apply these or similar solutions as soon as possible. So I'm counting on wisdom and I'm counting on the dynamics that I've mentioned that it's possible to adopt this law even when the rebalancing is clear. And if, honourable Members, we support this law, that it is suitable for further consideration, which of course is ambition at this stage of the procedure, then we will also give a clear signal to the Government to take this into account at the time of the rebalancing. However, if we reject it, then the message of Parliament will also be clear - this will not be the case in the future and this action will in fact be difficult to implement because we have all kneeled together. And here, in the end, let me draw your attention to another important issue concerning the dignity and role of Parliament. The role of Parliament is not to listen to and obey the government and its opinions. The role of Parliament is to decide, on its own conscience, and to decide as is right, as it thinks it is right. And I can see that the agile ones here are very clearly identified, and they're laughing at those words. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u53	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We continue with the general debate of Members and Members. The first one has the word, Mr Zvonko Černač. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u54	Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister and all others present! When things change quickly, action must also be taken quickly and effectively. In the last period, we have witnessed the sudden deterioration of the economic situation in our country as well, and fortunately, the situation is not the same as in some countries around us that have already gone deep into recession. And if we were to act quickly and effectively, I think that Slovenia could also avoid the recession. The predictions that we have been hearing lately are no longer so optimistic. Although it is still announced, including by international institutions, in Slovenia this year's positive economic growth, I think that failure by the Government leads us in a very dangerous direction. I do not know whether those who decide live in a virtual world and do not hear the Chamber of Commerce, Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise, many calls from individual companies, individuals, unions and all others who warn that what has been adopted so far is not enough and that it does not work in one part. Measures that would have an effect that should have an effect are practically non-existent. It's been two months since the new government was appointed. In doing so, it must be said that the previous government, before leaving this position to the newly appointed government, aligned certain measures with it, also offered aid, but was rejected; this time-limit was rejected. And we are also hearing now that what the opposition is proposing and with what it wants to help is not accepted as benevolent, but, we have heard, as populism moves that should arouse a certain sympathy in the public. Wrong, I think it's someone else's populism. Populism is one who seeks solutions to the challenges of the cappuccino crisis. This is the greatest populism that we can trigger right now and the most negative response that we can record, given the serious issues we face. Rather than allowing all those who have been chosen to make decisions and make decisions on the basis of which people will have a job on the basis of which people will be paid fairly, on the basis of which the economy will prosper, deal with it, and all together look for the best possible solutions, we have been working for two months on who will save more and who will set a better example. Nothing wrong, great, but, ladies and gentlemen, do this and act, act what you're paid for, this is what you and all of us are expecting. As a result, the re-examination of this law, which I hear has only led some to a change of opinion in relation to the treatment two weeks ago. Nice to meet you. I think that this is a proposal that, in a small but important part, relieves the economy of liquidity. Every day, every week, every month, when we postpone measures, the situation just gets worse. See, today I read on the cover - this is one of the rare things that somehow reflect the real situation, otherwise we see on the headlines of the newspapers the last two months mainly smiling faces of new officials who explain what they will do and how everything was wrong back - "the number of unemployed is rising steadily," says today, "by 70% more in January of this year than in January of last year." If that's not the information we need to worry about, then I don't know what kind of information we might be worried about. And what was adopted by the new government, two measures: excise duties which have been burdened, and the law which was passed in the National Assembly, which subsidises reduced working time. The law, which will take strong millions of euros out of the state budget if the measure is taken - but I think it will not even be taken as it was intended, and it will have absolutely no effect. A marriage no one's satisfied with. Nobody! Not the economy, not the unions. Nobody! And in this case, it actually means a direct outflow and a direct financial burden on the budget in 2009. However, the law that we propose does not mean another than the current liquidity gap, which must be replaced liquidity only at some point and then never again. If the former government had not acted in such a way that, on 8 October, former Finance Minister Bajuk and former Prime Minister Janez Janša had publicly stated that the roles of citizens and economies were guaranteed in full, as they were imposed in banks, then, I firmly believe, today would also have a banking crisis in this country. And I'm not sure we'd be facing any worse consequences than we are. Although no law was adopted, it was necessary to act quickly, decisively, and so that a positive signal was given. And this is also expected by the amendment of this law, which we now have on the table again today. I sincerely hope that if the time is at the government level to deal with Schindler's, forgive me, Squeak's list of write-offs, forgive those who are not compatible with the new authority, if it is time for the public exposure of individual heads of administrations of individual state institutions, where the new government, with recommendations, is even nicer than the previous government, instead of proposing, if courage in this national council, a law amending the income that would make all wages above, I don't know, 8, 10 000 euros 100% taxed, this is a measure that I would expect at such a time and that would work seriously and responsibly and all equally, then I think it is also necessary to find time to deal with what we all live together in this country: with the unloading of the economy. I suggest you consider and accept this hand offered by the opposition, because this is the first time that the law is being examined and I think that these solutions can be further improved in the next legislative procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u55	Mr. Willie Rezman has the floor. He's not here. Mr. Sylven Tiny. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, chairman. It's not the Americans who are to blame for the financial crisis. Nor would it be necessary to wait for them to tell us that this will happen to us. All too much was speculative investment financed by banks from various acquisitions to speculative construction. Things were clear a while ago that this would happen. You don't have to be an economist for that, but you have to look at things logically. It was all too much to spend, it was dominated by the lobby of capital and prestige, so that, in my opinion, we got away with so cheap so far. It must have been expected that such behaviour would affect the financial, public and, more recently, the real sector. The situation is certainly most noticeable when a problem arises in an economy which is in some ways a barometer of climate in the country. The poor lending conditions of the economy, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, make the situation worse. The need to shorten the period of reimbursement of the value-added tax has so far not been followed. Because of such things, some companies have put themselves in an illiquid position after unnecessary. As we see that the proposed amendments to the value added tax law have no effect on public funds, the law needs to be corrected as proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u57	Mr. Franz Bogovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u58	Nice greeting, chairman! Dear colleagues! I support myself, and I am glad that the law is back on track. I support those who claim that, in our beautiful country, we do not deal enough with serious problems and with solutions that could give some positive result in the will to live, in the will to manage, to do business in this society, but that we are trying to deal with some populist, sometimes I am also evaluating, with very demagogic receptions, which are mainly the invention of pirares, rather than some serious economies, to play and try to respond to this crisis. I will certainly support such a bill, and I would also suggest to my colleagues that we seriously consider whether it means giving the economy money back first is really such a big burden, or whether it would be one serious and responsible measure to be taken in this country. I agree that we can assess whether we are also able to perform technically within this period or financially. However, it has been a practice in the past that even a scale has been made in the law on wages, which has been estimated to fall in one year and then, in due course, reduced this tax on wages. There may also be a model here to transfer part of this burden to the 2009 budget and part of this burden to the 2010 budget. As far as resources are concerned, I would like to ask if today we can get an answer to what we did not get the last time we pointed out in the Slovenian People's Party that this calculation is quite problematic in this law, with which we will subsidise reduced working hours. I'll try very briefly, as we say at home, on my fingers. You have estimated that 230 million will stand for this year. 6 months after €60 means €360 per employee. Six months after €120, it amounts to €720. If we take the average or some middle number, 500 euros per employee to make it easier to count, 230 million, as far as you have estimated that this measure will cost 800 million, means that you have foreseen this measure for 460,000 employees in the Slovenian economy. As far as I know, the Slovenian real sector has about 500,000 employees. It is said that for more than 90% of all people, they are expected to be home six hours a week. I am confident that this measure will not cost more than 60, 80 to 100 million in this year. And here I see the 150 million that this year, if we really want to give 800 million to our economy and to our liquidity flow, we can give up this money this year. Please, if the representative of the government tells me whether this home mathematics is too simplified. Is there something wrong with her? Or is this your starting point of the government that this measure will cost the country 230 million, sand in the eyes of citizens and the economy in Slovenia?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u59	Mr. Anton Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u60	Your Honor! There is some competition in re-entering this law into the procedure. There's nothing wrong with perseverance. On the contrary! I think it's wrong that we don't respond to things any faster. For the last time, I did not vote in favour of rejecting this law. There's too much swindling, there's more to trying to explain how until day D was all right and then everything broke. I remember Mr Bayuk and the previous Prime Minister of the Government when they said what a crazy surplus there would be, and in the end it was a loss. You know that. And there's no serious dilemma here. We could have adopted this marriage sooner, but I don't want to discuss it. However, I would like to say that the 60-day deadline for VAT reimbursement has been invented, set once because it has been estimated that the whole process can be rectified during this time and that it will run as well as must, from the beginning of the payment of control and to the return. I am convinced that at this time there is such a technological process, both control instruments and everything else at a higher level, that it is possible to find out more quickly what the situation is and to carry out the whole process. The fact is that today we are talking about who will be more liquid, who will be less liquid, but it is obvious that this is how the country, the municipalities and even the most businesses face the larger issue of liquidity each day. If it is true that payments are also extended by the State, by the municipalities, by those with public money that they do not pay within the agreed time limits and, on the other hand, this money from the overpaid VAT is held in the tax administration or state account, of course this is unacceptable. I believe it is necessary to share the fate of everyone. When it comes to liquidity, the liquidity of companies is greater than that of the State and all other entities managing public money. There's a real claim here that says if anything, then we all have to share fate the same. By taking measures, and one of them is also directed to act for all equally, for all to be effective and as quickly as possible. When it comes to liquidity, another question is, who is really easier to bridge these issues, these problems: Whether the country, banks, and, of course, this sector, or businesses? Then we need to ask ourselves if it is true and if these data hold that banks of certain sectors, some companies, the whole industry simply no longer finance the situation we are in. So far, they have been exemplary payers, not long ago. Here the former finance minister spoke about how cheap loans are, how better it is to be in debt. The State has also committed itself to infrastructure and other areas beyond measure. And of course, this money has been tried in every way to sell to business entities. We are facing some unfinished investment processes because this money was available and offered. Now, let's say it's overpaid and they don't get it back. There are no bank loans to bridge liquidity, so this situation is not sustainable. I think it's right that we adopt the law at first reading. I myself will vote in favour, as I have said, and I hope that in the second reading an amendment will be adopted that will bring the hands of those who are durable and sustainable by those who collect VAT, which they retain and should also be returned, and, of course, those proposals that are here today, which I am sure would contribute to solving some problems. Either it's 21 or it's 30, maybe 7 days isn't that deadline, but somewhere in between it must be. And anything that will contribute to at least a little relief from this crisis, I will support. I understand, however, that the members of the government coalition also strive to do so. And it would be wrong for today to have the impression that government Members, including ministers and the government, care only about the liquidity of their sector, the payment of coffee, flowers and I don't know what else it will or will not. So here, at least I am sure, we have come to realize that we are all on the same ship, that we must share the same destiny and take care of each other's tasks, to do what is primarily a primary task in the primary field. And speaking here of the role of Parliament, it is certainly appropriate to listen to all the problems and, on the other hand, to adopt proposals that are well-intentioned, which are mitigating, which solve problems. As I say, I will uphold the law in the first reading without reservation. If I said before that I would hope to adopt an amendment, I would also try to bring these hands closer to some reasonable numbers. As I say, as far as this is concerned, I have understood some of the performances of government representatives, as well as some others, who deal with these issues in order to make it possible, and so be it.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u61	Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Matjaz Han. [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Rado Likar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u62	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and honourable Members! I myself support the proposal for amendments to the value added tax law concerning return or the reduction of the VAT refund deadline from 60 to 7 days, or I myself would suggest that we discuss some other acceptable repayment period. I myself worked for days at the institution, which at the time was a reimbursement service for then traffic tax. I'm telling you, this deadline hasn't been 60 days yet. It's shorter. But I don't remember exactly how long that deadline was. It's definitely shorter. And my opinion is that the 60-day deadline for the refund of overpaid VAT is not acceptable, because it is nicely said to be archaic and belongs to the 1970s when the information system was actually at a much lower level. The liquidity, I stress, the liquidity shortfall and the loss of government revenue cannot be sufficient to reject this proposal or to reject the solution without trying to bring our "negotiation" point of origin closer together. The economy in these times expects us to find solutions that will work quickly and effectively. The fact that the economy expects the country to return to them as soon as possible what they have been paid too much is the least the country can do for rapid and effective action to alleviate the recession. I do not want to feel that the proposed solution will be rejected simply because it has been proposed by the Member of the largest opposition party and because it is clear that this proposal or this solution has not already come from the previous government. I therefore appeal to all of you to consider and find a common, smart and acceptable solution that will benefit all of us citizens and citizens whose representatives we are Members of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u63	The word is Marian Bezjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. Hello, Vice President of the National Assembly! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry, Members and Members of Parliament! Why did we decide to submit a proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party for the refund of overpaid VAT for a period of 7 days? We are of the opinion that this would be a measure which would very quickly "take" in the economy for the situation that is ahead of us or at the door of certain companies. After all, we are talking about the recession: whether it is here or not. In some companies it is already, and in some companies it will be created if we do not act faster and adopt certain laws more quickly. It is true that the opposition is somehow proposing amendments. The coalition won't accept them at all. The coalition should be aware of this by those Members who are themselves economists. How they do business if they don't need that money back. We know what the mayors are doing. They do not pay certain duties to operators for up to a year. These are the things these people think about that money means in the economy. This money would mean that certain companies would have liquidity, those that are now ineligible. I think you are aware, honourable Members, of what you will accept today. I don't understand at all that you don't want your money overpaid to give to the state right back. We've been proposing for seven days. It is true, thank God that Minister Križanič has a hearing, he has an ear that wants to listen. But on the Committee on the Economy, the coalition immediately met, 15 minutes of pause, and voted against this law. And the Minister himself supports this. I don't know why it's such an opinion and such a view of you, because you didn't propose this law. Once again, let us shrink our strength and help the economy, for the economy is the one that pays you here. If there's no economy, neither will you or they won't need us. Be aware of this once, but not of destiny. People who don't come out of the economy and think that money comes from the sky. Sorry, you're thinking wrong. You're talking about the tax system. Three years ago, the tax system was concentrated. You're talking about the intransigence of the tax system. Believe me, the transparency of the tax system is very good. And thank God that's true. Maybe you just need to make one upgrade to this system. These are the conditions for the operation of this country, these are the things that bring this country to a better tomorrow, and certainly not the things that you oppose them, to good ideas, to the voice of the economy. I hope coalition colleague Anderlich could convince you that you were listening. Believe that there was a great deal of pressure on the economy to express this wish or to say that he would vote in favour. That's the only right thing. People voted for him. He's here today. I hope that we have convinced you sufficiently, given you strong enough arguments to understand what the economy needs, what is important to the economy, and that you will vote in favour today. We will support this law in the SDS, because we believe that the only real source of money is the faster money companies can get back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u65	Mr Miroslav Klun has the floor. He's not here. Mr. Anton Kolarich. Mr. Lucky Friend. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. In vain, you call those who can make the most of it right now. My colleague Cloone, President of the Chamber of Commerce, I would like to hear his opinion. The opinion of the Slovenian National Party is that the amendment of the value added tax law is necessary. It's an emergency. In this context, this must happen as soon as possible, as the country is the largest debtor. Even legal actions, when citizens and citizens, with torture and additional financial means, demand from the State what, of course, a judicial decision the State should give, forget the payment or the execution of judgments. And today we have had a chance to hear right here from the types of social Democrats - see how empty the species are - Mrs Brunskole, that the budget will be cut financially, that the deficit in the budget will be greater if we accept this, that it will be the end of the country if we accept it. Yes, should the state not consistently collect taxes from those who work directly? The tax must be paid immediately, whether the payment is realized or not, because this country is no longer interested in the second step, but collects the taxes immediately. It is also happening many times that companies that perform the business in a manner that is exemplary also realize it. And once the material goes to the store or to the final customer, this service is not paid. But the countries don't care about that again. The state collects its tax. And if the tax is not paid, she doesn't care if the service is paid or not, she sits in the account. And this company, due to its good work and financial non-discipline, which should be taken care of by the state, is failing. And we have huge companies like that. Reducing the refund of the overpaid tax from 60 to 7 days, that's normal, people of God, at the time that's coming. The economic situation in Slovenia will be worse, it will not be better. The recession in the economy won't get past us. It's going to hurt us just like all the other countries. I think that Slovenia should be at least as honest as those who process this tax field, from which this state budget is also being fueled to soil this field to enable them to produce better crops in this second year. Despite the crisis. With a fair approach, let him return what is theirs. If it's overpaid, it's normal for the state to return it immediately. However, the state is getting budgetaryly directly from the economy. Unless it's our goal to destroy everything that's good. That's what we used to do in the past. We have also destroyed the economy in Slovenia in the way that we gave some privileged people the opportunity to pick up the great giants who were successful, people have been swept on the road, this is what is happening today, and money has been put in their pockets. Is that a good country? Tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, you will make more unemployed and more social problems if you do so. I didn't see any of the tycoons sitting around because he bought a company illegally, and then he shut it down. This is happening to us today. And when we talk about helping those who know and want to work and can do well, we help them to return as soon as possible what is theirs. But let's stop here, and there's no more healthy logic and normal thinking. And today, as has already been said, the voice of the economy is also in this bench. Mr Miroslav Klun should also be sitting with me in this Chamber today. He advocates craftsmen, but he's not. You called him for free. And that's a shame. Because of such acts, I believe that we will be nothing more social. And with such moves, you will not remain in power. Believe it!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u67	Mr Istok Podkrižnik has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u68	Respectable. I support the proposal for a VAT law. It also helps to ensure the liquidity of companies alone. Economic growth, if we're looking at the last three years, has been very good. But if we look at 2009, we have to say that it won't be as brilliant as it used to be. So we estimate about 1.1%. Due to the situation at this time, foreign exchange and investment will be affected. The decline in investment was expected and an additional factor, which is crucial, is the decline in demand in some sectors and other tightening funding conditions. It is therefore important that good companies with orders develop and make up for the difference we need for positive growth. I believe that positive economic growth is optimistic, as in most countries in the euro area there will be negative growth this year. It should be noted that, due to the current financial and economic crisis, Slovenia will not be able to achieve the desired growth of more than 4% and can be achieved by around 2. It should be noted that the financial crisis started in the financial sector. It is therefore crucial to ensure that the conditions for funding is returned to as normal a framework as possible. All these measures, including this proposal, which have already been adopted, and others that will, if they do, be able to help reduce the slowdown of economic growth, which is most important at the moment and in this situation, so I think we need to support this proposal. For the company, liquidity is important - to provide long-term funds for the financing of basic assets and also for operating assets. I think that many companies in Slovenia are facing liquidity problems today when they have to provide customers with one way or another, because we know that if we take a supplier's company to deliver some material within 30 days, that's what we need in the company, in the process, 10, 30 or 60 days, to make this product, and then we put an account out and wait for the inflow for up to 120 days. It is therefore very important that these liquidity assets are long-term, as this ensures that companies can function normally. Also a VAT refund, I think it is one of the tools that could help companies to work better. The choice of measures is very important for the growth and retention of the number of employees alone. They will influence that the export-oriented economy will be even stronger. I am convinced that in Slovenia we still have many companies that could make good progress through appropriate measures, despite the crisis in the world. And that, I think, is crucial, because the Slovenians are people who have a lot of intelligence and we also know a lot of hard things to do and sell into the world. I think Slovenian economists are very well aware of what is happening around the world. Every day we see in newspapers how many people are being forgiven, which therefore means smaller orders for our companies. On the other hand, as I said before, we have a lot of companies that have their own development, they have brains. And these companies actually need this help. I think it's about time we helped them here, so they can develop normally, because these companies are going to provide us with better tomorrow. That's why I support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u69	Thank you. Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. First, a reaction to the distasteful and also a very inappropriate comment on adversarial Members. If we wanted to start discussing who was receptive and who was not, how did some of them bend their arms when adopting individual laws in the previous term, then we could discuss for a long time. And I think that this comment was, you could say, "very on the spot," under the terms. However, I would like to say that during such a very well-sung period of large, rapid economic development, high gross domestic product growth and a range of positive results in the past mandate, with the very efficient and capable Republic tax administration, and with the high budgetary surplus that we will be talking about tomorrow, it is likely that, in the past term, a proposal from this law, with all the necessary measures, could also be made available to the tax administration in order to prevent, or to compensate, a one-year shift in the revenue of the State budget due to a substantial, almost ten-fold reduction in the time limit for recovering overpaid tax liabilities. I must say that it seems a bit distasteful to me that the law, which should in fact be in some way, as the referendum on such legislation is forbidden, should you go a little bit to see that this law should also be made available to the Government because it has all the information available and also knows what the operational capacity of the tax administration and the financial ministry is to make such radical changes of legislation. Because of this call on the opposition to understand, I think we could now go look at some magnetograms for years and months ago and we could see what understanding was for substantially more justified and significantly better-quality marriage proposals than this. For this reason, of course, do not expect me personally to vote in favour of such a bill in the first reading because of my admissibility to the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u71	Mr. Franci Kek has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u72	Thank you for your word. I, too, believe that the 60-day deadline is an abnormal debt for recovery, but I think it would be very difficult and difficult to achieve a reduction in this deadline this year. An additional 150 million in this year's budget would mean that we are very dangerously approaching the 3% Maastricht minus limit in GDP and could overcome it. When we listen to Mr Visiak, who says that we are different here from each other after who wants good for the economy. In this case, I think Mr Visjak is very different from himself. From himself in the past four years, when he had much better conditions to lower this 60-day deadline.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u73	Mr. Anton Kampush has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u74	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I come from the economy and, of course, I do not believe that we would find someone who would not be better able to manage at this moment of crisis. As far as VAT is concerned. But at this point we should be a little more patient. It is probably the Minister of Finance who manages the financial situation in Slovenia. He is probably the one who can say whether this measure is acceptable from a financial point of view of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia today. He's probably the one who can say what if we take this action today, what will be deleted. What will be the next point that will not be implemented within the meaning of the State budget or the balance that is being drawn up at this time? How will we react then? What happens then? Then how many heroes are you calling yourself here today? At this point it is clear that there is some payment discipline in Slovenia. It's moving more and more, paying 60 days, moving 90 days to 120 days. And of course this is bad for our economy. Of course, I estimate that the Government is still following these trends daily and must continue to do so. And if the Government finds out, especially because the balance is in the final stage, that it is possible to include this measure within this, of course, I expect it to implement it within the next few months, weeks. But of course, not the way I'm going to make it up, not the way the former Minister of Economy is going to make it up, but the way the government is going to make it up. Whether this term will then be 7, 20, 30, 60, as it is now, certainly not, but as I say, 7, 20 or 30 days. I expect that from the government. At this point, however, it is pointless to support this because it is not sustainable from a financial point of view. Today I will try to ask the Minister to get the thesis I am talking about on the table as soon as possible. To support things just as ad hoc as is spoken today, I think it's pointless. And that's not gonna happen on my side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u75	Mr. Daniel Krivec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! When I listen to this debate, I cannot help feeling that it is only a mistake that the government has not proposed or a coalition. In an extraordinary session, this was an argument that the Government must examine this fairly and decide in this direction. When I listen to the debates, you all say that this is an unendurable 60-day deadline, so it would be wise to shorten this and similar debates. The Minister also agreed in principle. We're talking about the 7-day deadline proposed by our side. However, dear colleagues and colleagues, we are talking about the first reading of this law, which is the basis for the second reading, the basis for a debate on committees where this law can be so shaped that it will certainly have effects, which is not the last thing you all find. And you can also propose a deadline in another direction, but certainly shorter than 60 days, and perhaps longer than 7 days. However, the debate that speaks of this as an unnecessary measure at this time is not correct. In fact, this measure would slightly mitigate the matter, which, despite the fact that we have taken a decision in Parliament for guarantees from banks that are supposed to lend to entrepreneurs, is unfortunately not being implemented in practice. And if we take a measure that would allow these craftsmen and small businesses, as well as large businesses, to receive at least their overpayments, to be a little faster, this problem, which is also caused by the non-distribution or unfavourable bank loans, would be greatly mitigated. And both actions would be very well complemented. Talking about these measures being premature is a big mistake. And I know that a proposal will appear on the part of the Government, but it will certainly be too late. I would like to draw attention to another problem that we are following in the financing of municipalities, where a few words can also be said about this VAT. You know all the European funds, various calls where municipalities advocate in terms of liquidity and also in terms of VAT payments to the country. They are practically burdened twice with some liquidity problem. Perhaps I would consider facilitating this financial flow for the municipalities, at least in such a way that VAT is charged when the municipalities actually acquire European funds or this refund. In this case, too, a certain segment of the public sector would be facilitated and the measure would certainly be welcome at this time, as would the economy, as this Act amending value added tax and reducing that period of reimbursement. Maybe the 20-day deadline is appropriate, maybe a 14-day period, but it is absolutely necessary to continue this debate and also take concrete measures.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u77	Mr. Bogdan Chapich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u78	Thank you so much for saying that. I do not support the proposal for a law amending the Value Added Tax Act for further consideration, but not because it was proposed by the opposition, but because there are several decisions or some reasons for such a decision. The general reason, such as poor supervision, less detection of tax fraud or a poor information system, can be very important but certainly apply at any time to repay this VAT. This must be the standard of the tax administration to prevent these things and to be able to identify or detect all these abuses, whether it is a 7, 15, 30 or 60-day period. These are problems that the tax system must resolve, irrespective of the deadlines for payment of liabilities. Another time. The proposal to amend the Value Added Tax Act does not differ in any way from the proposal already rejected by the National Assembly after a rather grueling and controversial debate on the Home Finance Committee. The proposaler is now taking a second path, although the Minister of Finance at the time suggested that the issue should be thoroughly examined and proposed a government proposal to present the 2009 budget rebalance. I have a feeling that it is now a competition, who will prepare such a proposal faster and who will invest faster and be more successful in the final stage. However, I must say that this is a broader problem and is probably also related to some other elements, such as payment deadlines, as we have heard today, such as the payment of VAT for municipalities, such as the last payment of taxpayers for payment to a country which is also limited by one deadline. Therefore, it should also be established by provision in Article 77, which is the obligation of the person to pay VAT in the budget fixed on the last working day of the following month after the tax period. This is approximately 28 to 30 days. All of this is also related to payments that colleagues have already discussed today. This is due mainly to the fact that financial non-discipline leads to problems here as well. It is true, however, that the majority of these VAT returns are linked to export-related investments when these major parts occur and when the company purchases a maximum of 20%, the service provides a value of 8.5%. And this is where there's a difference. Otherwise, in normal business, in normal things, this tax is in fact approximately balanced. The applicant’s claim that the amendment of the value added tax law has no effect on public finances is incorrect and has an effect. It has an effect directly into the city when it has to be returned, whether this period will now be 7, 30, 15 or whatever, can of course be calculated. The Ministry's assessment is that this is between 300 million and 150 million, but of course it also has a long-term impact, because in these public finances it will be necessary to provide a certain amount of money to turn this circle around normally. It would, of course, make sense that when public finances were more stable when there was more money, they would introduce such things and certainly not discuss these things today. I therefore propose that this assembly rejects this proposal and instructs the Government to draw up an appropriate solution that will take account of the initiatives of the economy and this assembly while ensuring the sustainability of public finances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u79	Mr. Magg has the word. Radovan Žerjav. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! Sometimes I get a feeling that we are not well enough aware of the situation of the Slovenian economy. I'd like to ask you to stop using the Maastricht criteria. What are these criteria, in fact, who are sticking to them at this time of year? The question is, is it wise to stick to them? What are the risks of violating them? These are, of course, questions to which it would be good to get answers, but the answers based on some of the analyses carried out. If we don't help the economy now, and this is very serious, we can put these criteria on our hat at the end of this year. We're gonna have a great rating and an economy on our knees. As far as I know, these criteria at this time violate both France and Italy, and please correct me if I have the wrong information. And many others. Why are they doing this? Because they save their economy and care little about the Maastricht criteria and care little about the European Union when it comes to saving their economy. The Slovenians will wait a little longer and see if a large number of companies will fail; or if we will move when 20, 30, 40, 50, I don't know. With the argument that we have been hearing all day today that this measure could have been done by the previous government, of course I agree, but I am still concerned. When I look at myself personally, last year I behaved substantially differently than I do today because of this crisis. And if last year had behaved as I do today, I would probably have saved some more money in my home budget. But I didn't, because the times were different. And I don't think such arguments are right at the moment, so I invite you, let's not be so stubborn. Let us not be so stubborn, support this law at first reading, and then, in a later procedure, we can all find out whether it makes sense to continue or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u81	Mr. Willy Trophynik has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Rudolf Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, Your Honor! The Slovenian proverb says that who quickly does, twice does. That is to say, if we return too much VAT, we will probably give something else, not just what we return. Certainly, however, it is a fact that today there are different situations than they were six months ago when we had a better situation. And since today is a different situation, there is certainly a need for different measures, different receptions, different tools, different instruments that can be seen in such an environment more than we can hear many times. This is similar to in everyday life - we also use umbrellas when it rains, when it is sunny, we do not need umbrellas. We can have him, but that's when he doesn't take this measure. And today we are in a situation where the previously paid VAT means something; six months ago it had no such effect. But that could have happened, but maybe no one thought about it at the time. This is why we did not do this before, because there were different situations. This, of course, can only be an extraordinary measure at a time when such a situation persists, and this can, of course, change later. The Minister indicated in today's debate that this would amount to 0.08 GDP in financial revenue. Of course, it would only be at the beginning, maybe not in the whole year, or if we count as a year, then that's it. However, if I remember correctly 10 days ago when excise duties increased, it was about the same amount. This is between €200 million and €300 million, or about €250 million. And now there have been other excise duties and the Secretary of State has announced that these measures will continue. That is to say, with one increase in excise duties, we get exactly these funds. Furthermore, the Minister also stated, if I understood correctly, that the sustainability or the possibility of supporting the information system was 21 days. Okay. We are also satisfied with 21 days, because this is some help. Last but not least, it can be a start, and then even if it turns out to be okay, we can also improve it, we can shorten it, but we cannot do that if we reject this law today. All of this can be done if we confirm the law today if we say it is appropriate for the next hearing. Otherwise, these are, of course, empty words. I'm sure the government will prepare a set of measures. We can read about it. Although we have not yet seen and heard the measures, more specifically what this will all be. We know what's going to happen. But what we see today in one of the printed media is that there are few who are supposed to contribute to a better economic situation, but there are those at the top who will not be able to make a big contribution. But well, let's be surprised, that's not final. The next thing I want to say is that I will support this proposal for the marriage to go into the next treatment. And I would also suggest that it would be good for you to consider this proposal also for those who currently oppose it so that we can improve it. Maybe somewhere in terms of compromise. But I'm concerned that when we don't want to do something with us, we say it to Europe. Now we're making excuses for the Maastricht. What will Europe say? Please, Spain and Italy already have, I don't know, I don't remember a time when Italy and Spain haven't exceeded all the possible Maastricht criteria since those criteria even applied. [[...]] These are two major countries in Europe and survive. Therefore, I do not know why Slovenia could not, if this meant something good for our economy. Last but not least, who fills the budget if not the economy. The economy fills it. The same is true of vinjets. We are talking to Europe, if we are to have a relationship with foreigners, which is subordinate to the locals. Please! But for whom are our roads and who built them? We built them ourselves. But here's what Europe's gonna say. And that worries me that we're doing the same now that we're talking about paying back too much VAT. I think if we think about it properly, it's right to give the green light that this law goes forward. We can fix it. We think there might be some kind of compromise. It doesn't have to be seven days, including 21 days, like some kind of sustainability to support our information system. Perhaps the government could shift the large spoon to the beginning with these excise duties to overcome those liquidity problems. I will vote in favour of this law going to the next reading. I suggest you think about that for the rest of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u83	Thank you. Mr. Brultz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u84	Your Honor! Of course, the public is convinced that public finances are the sole concern of the minister. The local community is filling the budget with the mayor's concerns. But of course, life is not like this and the emptying of the budget must also be careful. And charging and emptiness must be our joint task. I am confident that the Government will, on the basis of accurate calculations of the consequences of the reduction of payment deadlines, as well as the preparation of appropriate mechanisms that will allow Durs to be monitored, prepare such a law when necessary. However, I am also sure that the opposition will make many more proposals in these difficult times, in which there will be no concern about how to fill the budget and how the whole state budget works, and thus the country as a whole, but it will only be a partial exercise at the same time. And that's what happens to us every week. It is obvious from some that the situation now in this area of financing the country and the development of the economy is unknown - be assured that we are. Unfortunately, skeletons falling from cabinets at various ministries need to be repaired. But all this now is government's concern. I am convinced that the adoption of such a law would also mean an urgent reduction of budget resources on other items. Now let us ask ourselves where we will choose to reduce. Probably hard to pay teachers, doctors, health care, etc., but we reach out to investments; investments that the state is supposed to invest and thus trigger a new cycle of economic crisis, more unemployed, etc. For all I have said, of course, I cannot support this proposal and I will vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u85	Thank you. Mr. Franzege.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u86	Dear colleagues and colleagues! I must admit that I have a certain sympathy for this proposal. I think that in a slightly different situation and with the knowledge of the consequences, the opposition would only look at it with sympathy, but at the same time with the understanding that such a proposal also has negative consequences. I believe that the burden on the economy by lending tax money is, of course, considerable. I don't think there's anyone in this room who wouldn't want to do that in a constructive, moderate way. But! As it is said, this measure has two effects: the first is undoubtedly liquidity burden of the economy and, on the other hand, liquidity burden of the State. However, it is not a question of liquidity in the country; it is a question of what, now the already infamous limits of 3% of the deficit in which we fall or survive on the Maastricht criteria. Some in this room wonder why these Maastricht criteria are of any importance. They're important because they're providing us with a credit rating. Today, this rating is still an AA, which ensures under tight financial conditions that the state and the economy have extremely serious problems, despite this high rating, towards access to funding because there are no such funds, but this credit rating currently maintains a favourable approach. If this border were to deteriorate by reckless measures, it would significantly exacerbate the potential for both countries and economies to reach financial resources. And here's the catch of the whole story. Are we wondering if we're doing this because of some magical Europe? No, no, no. This is because we want to safeguard the stability of public finances as a fundamental condition for us to improve the conditions for the functioning of the economy in tight financial and economic conditions and for the economy to have what is our common objective, and this is greater liquidity, greater access to financial resources and better opportunities for us to survive under tight conditions. I'm sure the former Minister of Economic Affairs Vizjak also knows that. I appreciate him as a smart man, but I can see that he is also very receptive and that he will now and in the future serve the National Assembly with proposals for laws that he will know that the government coalition cannot accept. There's a lot of talk in public about the prime minister's coffee. I take this coffee, the Prime Minister's willingness to pay his own representation, as an important example. I would like to see such examples, not because of the symbolic effect, but because they open up a real possibility, the idea of starting to save on public consumption also exists in the previous mandate. But no. In the previous term, we have witnessed a deficit at a time of high economic growth. And because it was a policy, I will say, also because the policy of the former government was so shortsighted, we are facing today that we cannot please any good proposal from the opposition. The government is expected to take 30 austerity measures tomorrow, with the effect of € 130 million. This lets us know how difficult it is to find the necessary reserves within the budget to ensure something that looks like a relatively small surplus. But I am sure that both the Finance Ministry and the Government will continue this process and look for ways to further reduce public spending. I therefore trust the Government, and I believe that in these cases, when faced with the difficult public financial consequences of political decisions, the legislative initiative should be left to the Government and the financial ministry. I understand the Minister of Finance, and I have also understood this at the first reading of this law a few weeks ago, in order to commit himself to finding the liquidity reserve we need in 2009 so that we can take such or similar action. However, once the government has identified the exact situation when we are convinced that public finances can handle this burden, not that we want to please the economy and make some real change, but, on the other hand, we will make public finances worse and thereby significantly worsen the potential of the same economy. Sometimes I feel that ladies and gentlemen on the other side of the hall think that the Government, ministers, the President of the Government and also Members of this part of the hall - that we do not care about what is happening in the economy. We don't care! We, too, think about, think about and look for solutions that we can offer to Parliament and the Government to make Slovenia come out of this situation strengthened, to solve many situations that are taking place in completely concrete companies or in the economy as a whole. I'm saying we're doing this first and foremost. For this reason, I also expect the opposition to understand that we cannot in times when we are taking a solution that at first sight looks glamorous and is behind a significantly greater threat to the economy and the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u87	Thank you. Mr. Friday has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u88	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Everyone in this room has a nice greeting, especially to the Minister. With this law, we only want to help the Government of Borut Pahor in the opposition. His client, the party leading him some decade ago, promised 100,000 new jobs, and now that he is leading the country as he leads the government, we are ahead of losing 100,000 jobs and I think the opposition's help at this point is correct and necessary. While some new government measures are announced tomorrow, which we do not yet know about, we can only hope that they will go in the right direction. It is a fact that businesses, the professional public and also in politics find that the measures so far are too slow, as they were of course. We have already taken steps in the National Assembly to subsidise working time, which is not a good one, which is not in the spirit of equality before the law, because some are in a privileged position here, so of course our view is that the adoption of this law, which we have offered today to deal with and allow for faster return of money, would have a more beneficial impact on the entire Slovenian economy. I am surprised that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is relatively slow, modest in these measures. There, on the other hand, Milan M. Squeakl sat down a few months ago, asking difficult questions, he knew the answer to every question. He could save not only Slovenia, but the world. I am therefore surprised that you are so slow in these measures, because you have Mr. Cwickl in the government. Mr Minister, because Mr Borut Pahor is not here, please tell him this: instead of looking for a variety of excuses, please start looking for solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u89	Thank you. Mr. Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u90	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Mr. Secretary. Right in front of colleague Petko, it was obvious from the position that they could not please this proposal as an opposition. No, dear colleagues, you don't have to please us! Please please please please please please please please, please, please, please It's a law that's meant for them, not us. We don't need this marriage. And even the times that have been said here before are not right for such a marriage - but when they are, please! This is a response to the situation today in Slovenia. And I really don't understand how coalition MPs with such unweighted arguments can justify non-supporting this law. Who will benefit from this - as I said, our companies. If I touch our region: in the White landscape it will be Danfos, it will be Iskra Semič, it will be Kolpa, it will be Revoz, will be Krka and thousands of small entrepreneurs who are even more dependent on these funds, which now, their funds, will be turned by the state. They are the ones who need it, which every euro really does come to their aid. The reason that we are going to get into a budget deficit - we will not get into a budget deficit, because it is the money of our entrepreneurs. It is true that there will be a liquidity problem, but let us find a solution to overcome it. It's certainly possible to find a solution. The next proposal, which we can come up with together again, is that we must first support this law today, that it is suitable for further consideration, and then we will be able to design it to be sustainable. If we are not capable, I doubt that our tax administration would not be able to respond to this deadline from 60 days to 7 days, as we propose. Let us make transitional provisions so that within one month this period can move to 30 days, in half a year to 7 days or whatever - this will certainly be an assessment of the profession. Let us give our entrepreneurs a clear signal that we are ready to follow their needs, their expectations. We do not need to detect warm water: not the Government, not the Minister or us, in Parliament. Let's listen to what entrepreneurs tell us all the time: relieve us, give us a chance to develop. That's their appeal. They don't need us to do something to them "shank," they just want to have the conditions so that they can act. And that must be our mission. Unfortunately, we're not aware of that enough. Like I said, this marriage needs our entrepreneurs. Let us support the first hearing if we do not find a solution, we can reject the law in further procedures, but let us give a clear signal that we are going against their expectations and that solutions such as they are appropriate can then be sought. So afraid that there will be a deficit in the budget, it's too much. However, I fear that the budget deficit will be very large and difficult to resolve when businesses start to fail because of such amendments to this law, which we have also tabled today or are considering today. And only with regard to the obvious, especially by the position, why we have not accepted this in the previous term. Dear colleagues from the post, let me remind you that many of the laws in the field of tax jurisdiction have been amended, all for the benefit of our entrepreneurs. Remember, in your term of office a law was passed to tax wages, now this has been abolished by the law we passed in the previous term. Then you also introduced a law in your time where entrepreneurs had to pay their taxes before they got paid. How many companies have this caused? One business could have led to the bankruptcy of a lot of entrepreneurs. That's the law we fixed, too. And there was a lot of it. And believe me, if Janez Janša's government were to be again, I am sure that this marriage would have been adopted a month and a half ago. And all the other explanations you're making here aren't real or well-intentioned. I expect this law to be supported and improved if necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u91	Thank you. Mr. Yuri, please, just one Yuri. [[No, no, ……]] Here you go. It's your turn. Franco Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u92	Sorry, I didn't know my name on the list, I saw another Yuri, and I thought there was a mistake. Thank you, Mr Vice President, for reminding me of almost untapped rights. I have already expressed my sympathy for this proposal for the first time that this law has been tabled, and I will reiterate this sympathy today. Because I myself was an independent entrepreneur, although in the form of an independent journalist, and I know exactly what what was warned today means. Someone picked up my words earlier and also my thoughts when he realized that we had recently voted and passed a law offering a lot of money from the state budget to businesses to compensate for the deficit that will arise when the timetable is reduced. These are subsidies that have not satisfied either workers or employers or trade unions. In fact, I also expressed my concerns at that time, despite the fact that I voted in favour of that law. But the fact is, I find it a little embarrassing that, while we compensate for the deficit of those companies that will reduce the timetable, on the other hand, we are not prepared to pay back the money that is the money of these companies. That is why I have a little confused attitude towards this debate, because the state or government has its arguments, the opposition has its own, but the fact is that we are only at first reading, at the beginning of a long debate, where there is the possibility that the government will intervene with essential proposals that will improve this law. I am an advocate of a shorter deadline than what is now in force and longer than what the opposition proposes - so, 30 days of course means a certain liquidity deficit for the country, but it means a lot to entrepreneurs who in these exceptional circumstances also have the right to survive and to get their money back. So my voice will be unconventional again. I will also support the beginning of this law's consideration and in further discussions, I hope that the debate and the Government's proposals, which are now seriously highlighted by the importance of resolving this non-compliance with some positive and legal logic regarding the rights to own money, will also intervene, as appropriate with the amendments. I am convinced that in the end we could reach a compromise that would at the same time meet the liquidity needs of the country and also the rights of the company. That is how I will join those who will vote in favour of starting the examination of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u93	Thank you. Mrs. Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u94	Thank you for your word. So our entrepreneurs and businesses are probably facing problems that we can or cannot help them with. In my opinion, the situation in the country is that businesses and entrepreneurs have not made so much a decision by the end of last year and at the beginning of this year to draw on the reserves they have provided in those good times, and in December or by the end of the year, they have not decided so much for forgiveness and any changes in their businesses because they have relied on such promised measures by the Government and expected the Government to take a step towards them and make things easier for them. However, this did not happen to increase the investments already made in 2008 or to allow them to make it easier. This measure has not been adopted, so this has not happened. With other laws that we have adopted, such as the Act on Subsidisation of Working Time, we haven't done much to help them. Let us remember that neither union representatives nor employers were satisfied with the law, because this measure was not assessed as a measure that would help them significantly. And they probably don't expect much anymore, or they don't count on us, but they certainly expect that the deadline for the refund of the overpaid VAT will be reduced, because we talk about it a lot, both in the opposition and in the coalition, but something important doesn't happen. Therefore, for the second time, we are proposing a law that would bring this to entrepreneurs and certainly help them in these times, which we ourselves find to be difficult for them. Perhaps the state and the ministry could prepare a calculation of what this means, even if they did not agree on a 7-day deadline, perhaps a little further, but probably based on everything that has been going on in the past year, these things make it clear what dynamics would be and what this would mean for the state budget, and it would not be necessary to point out here that, at once, teachers will not have to pay, and I don't know who else if such a measure were to be taken, since the economy contributes most to the fact that teachers, doctors and everyone else in this country is paying. That's how I'm going to support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u95	Thank you. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u96	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, in the introduction, I would like to try to recall the paradigm that President Pahor had in his two speeches. Here he undertook to ensure that the coalition would support all the opposition's good proposals. From the discussions of the Minister, not only today, but also before, it has been noted that this proposal is the one that is good; even coalition Members, some of you, have found that this proposal is good. And yet somehow then we also hear from some others that the opposition is trying to somehow adjust or hinder the work of the coalition. That's not what this is about. The measure is appropriate and I think it should also be adopted. Someone earlier said that the government is preparing 30 measures worth 130 million. The average value of the measure is therefore around EUR 4 million. If we are trying to sort this out somehow, then the government is preparing very selective measures that will affect very individual groups or profiles in the economy. This means that the State or Government has essentially begun to select to whom such a special measure will be directed. I can't explain it to myself. We are proposing a VAT return law, which is the return of the money that economists, the economy deposited in the country's account, have. Since the economy does not receive liquid money in banks, it is in fact our duty to ensure that we return to it the money that is held interestlessly in the accounts of the State and which the State must return in any way within the prescribed time limit. All we're suggesting is that this deadline is not two months, but that this deadline is shorter. We are indeed proposing a week, seven days, but the Minister made it very clear in his debate earlier that there is no problem in ensuring the return of this money, which is not state money and will never be state money, but is the money of entrepreneurs, in 21 days. So, substantively speaking, it's not a dilemma. Both the Minister, the Government and the opposition agree that this money must be returned. The only dilemma that is is how quickly to return it and put it into the economic system. It is true that in that first year and only this year will it be a problem to ensure a shorter period of repayment of this money. That's for sure. But if this option exists, I don't see why we wouldn't do it. There were some indications that former Minister Vizjak could have suggested that such a law should be adopted earlier. I must say that the previous government and also the previous minister have proposed a series of laws that make a number of matters or many matters substantially rectified. A major change has also been made in the implementation of this State budget. With 600 million inherited deficits in 2004, we came to the budgetary surplus in 2008 and, in the meantime, carried out a tax reform that amounted to about a billion and 200 million euros less revenue in the state budget than in the law proposed by the previous government - Mr Maramor, as well as Mrs State Secretary Kamnareva, was the one who was involved in the preparation of that tax legislation. Thus, for €2 billion, the changes were around in the previous mandate and for so much less they were also burdened. I propose that we let the law go so that at least we can complete it with other solutions or deadlines. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u97	Thank you. Mr. Saiovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Of course, we have a dilemma and a serious problem, and the view itself would shift further than the back. I also take the view of the fellow Member of the Visiak as a completely correct and one that leads to a solution. I am sure that all Members would be happy to raise their hands for him, and the Minister and the Secretary would probably agree with him if the lack of these funds did not affect public finances. I'm glad the Ministry is looking for a solution that could shorten this deadline, not 60 to 30, but 21 days. There are indications that this is logistically possible. This would certainly be one of the solutions that we can come to the public as soon as we solve public finances problems. Today you can read in the daily newspaper that the minister is also looking for a source by means of bonds, a call for bonds for 3 and 5 years, a source of billions of euros of money to open credit lines in banks, so that craftsmen and entrepreneurs can start and open the circle. And I am sure that this is a solution that can help the economy significantly more than this moment of VAT solution, which I am confident of, and I also insist that we must certainly introduce it before the end of the year, while at the same time discussing financial discipline, which, like this VAT, would greatly help our craftsmen and entrepreneurs. It is necessary to give your hand to the heart and acknowledge that we have been living and doing a lot of credit and debt in the public sector for years now, probably by the state. This country has undertaken a number of commitments over the past four years, which will have to be paid once in the future. Those of us who have taken over the congregations who are in debt to unconsciousness, where two, three, or more mandates have collapsed and have accumulated, are willing to do so, sadly, so that we do not close our doors. Today, I will not support this solution, especially out of confidence in the measures presented by the Minister and the Ministry. However, if, within two, three months of this issue in the field of public finances and the opening of credit lines for entrepreneurs and craftsmen, I will certainly change my decision in June. For if there are no other measures that we expect to be of greater benefit to craftsmen and entrepreneurs, then it will certainly be necessary to support the one that undoubtedly produces concrete effects and results immediately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u99	Thank you. Mrs. Brunskol, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u100	Nice to meet you again. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr Vice President. On the Committee on Finance, we had a very thorough debate on the proposal for a law amending the Value Added Tax Act. I took my own stand, as several fellow Members have already said here, for the deadline to be reduced to 30 days, so that practically all companies would have uniform conditions, as is already the case for exporters today. However, when the Minister of Finance briefed us on the problem that in the event of a 30-day cut in time, we need at least 150 to 160 million Euros of funds, and for 7 days even 300 million Euros of funds in the first month - and each of us who understands and who knows what this means to provide funds now: how to provide them, how to cut funds, what to do? I am sorry when I look at the data - I believe that my fellow Member, who previously led this sector of the economy, would agree with me, in 2007 it was 6% economic growth. I'm kind of sorry that maybe then somehow it didn't take any action in this direction and tried to provide these funds, if perhaps it was difficult already, it would certainly be less difficult than it is today. When a fellow Member mentioned the companies from which we both come or we are quite a few Members from Dolenjska, White Krajina - from Istria, Krka, Revoz, Kolpe. The 30 daily deadline is now due to the fact that these are export companies, including export companies. It was mentioned today by colleagues: let us give entrepreneurs a clear signal that we will give them conditions to develop. I am 100% convinced that none of us, regardless of whether we are operating on the term coalition, the opposition - none of us are opposed to entrepreneurs developing and the whole economy as well. However, when I returned 14 days ago, when we had a meeting with economists in the White Country on 12 January, these economists appealed to me and to the Member State of the Republic of Slovenia, to all of us Members to take care of them and to have a hearing for them; on the one hand, with certain measures, which I think were also some of them already adopted, on the other hand, there was a great emphasis on the quality of transport links between all regions of Slovenia. If I go specifically, it was: Dolenjska and Bela krajina, but here I can also mention Koroška, Štajersko, Prekmurje and also Primorsko, Idrija and all other areas where we really do not have a quality transport connection. And with this measure, I am convinced that we could also cut transport assets. As a result, I'm worried about another moment. Not only will we continue to drive along the roads we are going to get here, but I am concerned that that is why the economy will also be here, I am thinking of the construction companies, that they will be forced to forgive the employees, because as a result this circle will turn in this direction, that there will be no work for them, because we will also cause this cut. That is why I propose, I also appeal in this direction that we really think and that we will go to this action when we are also in the balance, including the Government, which has not yet been six months - I know that someone has also mentioned that he regrets that we did not go into this measure six months ago - that the Government will also try to find a solution, but where it is really possible to cut, that we will not cut again dramatically in the area where we will burden the other side of the re-economy. However, because it was also somehow not the most positive at the expense of our President of the Government, of all of us who are here in the Chamber and of all the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Borut Pahor, to finally start looking for solutions, I think that there is no dilemma here at all. The solutions are sought by both the President of the Government and the entire Government of the Republic of Slovenia, including the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, and we are all here looking for solutions as well as members of the Finance Committee. We do not all run away from making it easier for the economy to work, especially in this difficult situation in an economy where there are economists, but I do not know if there is such a solution - the warning has also been given to consider whether we can stick to the payment deadlines of public institutions, including the municipalities. And here, alone as mayor, I have to say that I'm worried that we're not going to get into these problems and problems. That way, if we don't take a real look at it, we're really gonna get to it. Therefore, I agree with the proposals - I support, but we must also understand when the Ministry of Finance warns us, and the Minister himself, of certain facts that we must be realistic here, without running away, without being soldiers, not as much as we are - someone said: resilient. We have nothing to be flexible about. Why would they be flexible? But we have to find a common solution, and I think we're looking for it, not contradicting ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u101	Thank you. Mr Vizjak spoke as a motioner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u102	Thank you very much. I didn't mean to, but after thinking like that, I have to do what I have to do. In fact, it is very unfair and misleading to conclude that such a proposal would actually outweigh certain other investment projects and that this would result in fewer investments and thus interfere with public finances. Because of this law, given the medium term and the short deadline, the state will have no more or less money, only to return it to the companies earlier. Therefore, the expenditure from the budget can be exactly the same and exactly the same investment activities. All the same investment activities! However, it is true that, I would say, a skilled financial profession at the Ministry of Finance will need to know and, in the context of existing measures or other measures, can overcome the liquidity shortfall or replace liquidity by returning VAT earlier. But VAT will collect the same and will return it the same and the same will be available to public finances for all purposes, looking through, I don't know, some investment cycle. Once again: if this first-year liquidity outage is used as an argument that expenditure from the budget will have to be reduced, then this is wrong and wrong and avoidable. I believe that this can be avoided; if not, liquidity can be overburdened at some point in time. Therefore, it is not true that the adoption of this measure will cause any damage to public cash registers as regards income or expenditure. They'll be the same! They'll be the same. And that's why the numbers, a few hundred million euros, are being used here dramatically, because it's a two-month dynamic. It is appropriate that the State, especially during such a period of financial and economic uncertainty, repays to undertakings the money it has now done. And it is also right that the payment deadlines are being reduced. And it is right that the acrobats of the financial professions, because we know that, when it is necessary, they also find that liquidity is the answer that can sustain them as a result. I myself remember the acrobatics a few years ago, or I would have said almost a decade ago, when 13 months of income were counted in one financial year, and 12 months of expenditure, making a balanced budget or a smaller deficit as originally planned. I remember a number of bank locks already in October of the month when it was no longer possible to withdraw from the country or the tolar at the time, because payment had stopped due to these concerns. I also remember the years of the previous government when this did not happen when the budget was open to the last, which was only possible because the situation was much more balanced. And don't tell me that any investment will be wasted by the adoption of this law!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u103	Thank you. Mrs. Kamnar, Secretary of State, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u104	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members, honourable Members! The law that we are considering today is not only a liquidity effect; it also has an impact on the state budget balance. We all know that. On the mid-term and long-term, the picture is exactly the way you described it, honourable Member Vizjak, and I agree with you. However, we have an annual budget and an annual budget balance. And at the level of the annual budget balance, there is a deficit. And this budget deficit, which is identified at the level of the annual budget balance, is the one by which we assess the implementation of the Maastricht criteria. And it is clear to everyone here that this liquidity gap that you are talking about is the fallout in 2009 of EUR 150 million, and that is, of course, an increase in the budget deficit. It's nice and it's okay. It's not about losing revenue. But let me just remind you a little bit about some of the things we face in the budget, and why we cannot at this moment adopt or support the law that is before us. Not at this point. We want to get him in circulation, that is, when we have a clear picture of the budget, which will not indicate that we will increase the budget deficit to such an extent that we violate the Maastricht criteria or threaten to obtain money to cover the budget deficit, because, of course, it is closely linked to the Maastricht criteria. This year, we have met with the following picture in the state budget: our budget revenues are falling drastically mainly as a result of macroeconomic frameworks, and we are being reduced compared to the budget on which the expenditure was directed. We are also being reduced compared to the 2008 reality, which means that we need to bring all the legal obligations that have increased dramatically in this year to a substantially lower level of revenue. They increased for two reasons. The first reason is the operation of automatic stabilisers. Valorisation mechanisms, which are legal, operate mainly on inflation, partly on wage movements, and inflation has been higher in the past than planned, so these funds were not included in the state budget. In addition, we even have a bunch of new legal obligations that took place during last year. Let me remind you, for wages we need, with a restrictive approach to employment policy and the like, 204 million extra money just to implement the existing rules on the existing number of employees - not one extra! Social transfers require 188 million additional money to move the number of beneficiaries and due to the valorisation mechanism. For natural disasters, we need 30 million additional money, which was not foreseen in the budget, because in 2007 it was not foreseen what would happen in 2008 with natural disasters. For the subsidies that are part of the crisis mitigation measures, we need about 200 million additional money, or 290, sorry. Payments to the European budget due to good developments in the past amount to 33 million additional money. As a result of changes to the Public Finance Act, the municipalities need 14 million additional money and we are negotiating if enough. Not to mention that income from the state budget has also decreased dramatically due to the law on the financing of municipalities. And we have to spend an extra 7 million money on pensions. These are obligations that cannot be crossed out, but we must finance them unless we decide to delete individual rights. I guess no one's ready for this right now. So these are the liabilities we have to finance: increased liabilities with lower revenues. Our budget deficit is currently estimated at 2.7% of GDP. At the moment, we do not hope to support this law, because we could endanger the public financial deficit to the extent that we could not even finance this deficit by borrowing. Therefore, allow us to reconsider, at the time of the budget's rebalancing, whether with other measures that we still have in processing and possibly have positive effects and will be able to implement them, whether we will get a space to provide a similar solution as you propose; but with an unaltered or such budget deficit that is still acceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u105	Thank you. Mr. Visjak as a motioner. Here you go. You've got a little bit of time.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u106	Yeah, I'll try. First time. I believe that we are faced with one virus that is constantly present, particularly at the Ministry of Finance, which is that it sees, even under such circumstances as now, in the circumstances of the financial and economic crisis, extremely in the short term over one year and then takes or does not take action through this prism. And if that's the case, then in 2009 it's going to be a little less and in 2010 it's going to be a little less. Look, there's another one. I agree with you. It could be your script. It is possible that you will also decide whether to support and to what extent to support this law at the time of the rebalancing. So let him through at first reading. It's only February, it's only the end or early March that the marriage will be in the second. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] the treatment. [[...]] It can't be before. And then we will decide on the amendment and the deadlines which are optimal for the VAT refund.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u107	Thank you. This concludes the list of applicants. However, since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. Yeah. I'm opening an application for further discussion. We've got four applications, each one has five minutes. Mr. Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u108	Thank you very much. One more nice hello to everyone. So, exactly what was said by the Secretary of State is what should be supported by this law. For if you do nothing and do not do it quickly, then your predictions will actually come true. And at the end of the year, we're not going to witness 2.7% of the deficit, but 3,7, 4.7 or even more. For the revenues that you say are being drastically reduced will be drastically reduced in the future - because there is no action! Apart from raising excise duties and partly starting an accelerated "filat" budget in such a way that you take it from the pockets of the economy and the population, in other segments you have done nothing. The law that you have proposed, which will not save anything, not a single job, I hope to claim, and it will carry out, according to your forecasts, €270 million - it will not, do not worry, because there will be no such interest - should be the development paradigm that will draw us away from what we are getting closer and closer. I wonder how this situation will get us out of a law that stimulates a work that is not developmental, which in no sense opens up new opportunities. You rejected the possibility that entrepreneurs would invest in new equipment last year's profits; this option was also rejected. Each option, which has been somehow indicated, has been assessed by you or by the Government as inappropriate. And it is true that, as you estimate, your income will continue to decline, the number of unemployed will continue to increase, as I said earlier, 70% more depending on January last year is in one area, and I'm really afraid that the payment of cappuccinos, which everyone working in the public sphere, is going to start with their own pocket, will not help much. As a result, this law has been an incentive to all those measures that are to be followed as one welcome incentive to think in the right direction. Because if measures are not taken in time, they will not work and they will not "capture". Nothing helps if we take a certain measure in six months. It doesn't help us! Nothing helps if we increase relief in six months. Then we can no longer enforce them for 2008. By the way, someone here today was talking about the skeletons falling out of the closet, and it's a minus in the cash register. I don't know where he gets that information. In 2007, which, with the help of some experts, you want to show as negative, the surplus in the balance sheet was EUR 37 million. If we take all the cash registers and are based on the methodology SA95, 176.6 million euros. For last year - read today in Finance - 68 million surplus in cash. So this heritage is good. And it would also be a great miracle if it were not good, given that we had favourable economic conditions, which were encouraged by the relevant measures of the past government and by the corresponding tax reform, which it also further encouraged. As a result, I am surprised to see this imprisonment in some defensive position when what is proposed by the opposition is bad, harmful, which is supposed to undermine public finances. On the contrary! If the economy now gets an impulse to breathe more easily, it will make it easier to fill public finances; otherwise they will actually collapse. And in view of the forecasts you have also written as an obligation in the coalition contract to take care of the budget restructuring - now is the right time and the right moment! Now make this move, which in other circumstances cannot be done because everyone expects more, or it is much harder to do. However, see, even in this area, "Schindler's List", excuse me, "Twik's List" deleted or those that are not compatible with the new authority will not help you much. Even if all those who have been employed in the last four years, which you have done as one of the first measures of your new government, delete or terminate them, you have not done even 0.1% of GDP and therefore will not be any closer to the Maastricht criteria. Again: the opposition has offered you a hand and offers you a hand in taking measures as soon as possible to relieve the economy and enable its survival. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u109	Thank you. Mr. Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u110	Thank you again very much for your word. In these debates, mainly by coalition Members, it is always possible to see the obvious that we cannot afford to give something to our entrepreneurs at this time. Then let us be convinced or taught! I think we could understand that this is their money that they had to pay under the law, or that taxes are overpaid, and that is their money, and with this law we only allow this money to be returned sooner. That'll help them. Madam Secretary of State, I believe you are very well aware that the budget of all of us is filled by our entrepreneurs, our businesses. It's not self-fulfilling. If measures make it impossible for businesses to grow, develop or survive at that time, all efforts are futile. Nothing will come into the budget, but then all those Maastricht and other criteria will be far exceeded, as well as social transfers and everything else that follows. The economy is the only one that creates and gives the opportunity for the economy to live and, of course, to develop. All these excuses that you're saying here don't really hold up; neither do the effects - we don't know what's going to happen. My colleague Vizjak mentioned earlier that if we decide on this law today or tomorrow - this law will be confirmed, the second will be in February or March. If it is not clear at that time whether we are capable or capable, it can also be postponed to March or April, it is important to inform our companies that the country is working in this direction. This is a key message, and at this time, let us give ourselves the opportunity to look for solutions. Nothing will be wrong, and it will have no effect if this law is confirmed tomorrow. This is a general treatment. The last decision will be when we say that this law is or is not in force. From then on, there may be some effects. Because of this: if you do not support this now, believe me, no one will believe that you are well-intentioned, that you want to go against a good proposal supported by the economy as well, and that it is indeed what the opposition proposes that you should not support it. Such ideas are also in the interpretation of this partnership proposal, that you do not want all these solutions to be covered in any way, even though all the solutions are intended for the benefit of the Slovenes and Slovenes. If we all act like this, they will, of course, have us. Let us support this law tomorrow and then take time if it is not possible to realize within seven days, with the preceding provisions, to find such solutions that this law will have effects that will bring our finances into a better position than we can now predict.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u112	Thank you very much. We've heard here several times that skeletons fall out of closets. Now, if there is any economic growth, employment growth, wage growth, surplus in the skeleton budget, then I suggest you embalming it, because such things are historic. I hope at least some of this coalition will somehow track you down. I think it is right that certain measures are taken at the beginning of the year. We have proposed this law a little earlier, but the beginning of the year is when we can propose something. Since the budget is still open, the balance sheet can still be drawn up and all those that can be cleaned in the balance sheet can be cleaned up because of the situation, perhaps now necessary costs or expenditure contained in the state budget. This is the task of every single government, no matter what has been adopted before, it is the duty to sort out all these matters and to prepare the conditions for the fulfilment of those conditions in the situation in which we are in need. There were some needs in the plan, other types of needs are needed this year and other measures are needed. The acquisition of rolling stock within government institutions, including the public sector, may certainly be deleted, perhaps other measures. Mr. Pahor gave up his coffee. I hope that it will also be followed by a parliamentary group, which also has a representation quota, that they will also give up there and so on. These measures are relatively large. I hope that you will give support to this law and that, for example, you will be able to speak in March or April and receive a report on the measures and with suggestions on what should be added in order to perhaps give better effect to this law. Thus, all these measures proposed by the Government are somehow translated into a time when a budget balance will be drawn up, and then into a time when the balance will be adopted. So, we're postponing for the second quarter. We need and the economy needs action now. If we listen carefully to the debate of government representatives, then somehow the only reasonable measure would be to extend the VAT refund deadline. It's not like it's been 60 days, but maybe 90 or 120 days. This is how some or most of the coalition Members and the Government debates. But this measure, or debate, that somehow gives you the impression that it's more lying to you than cutting the repayment deadlines, I don't think it's appropriate. The economy has only responded, both the Chamber of Commerce and Business and the Chamber of Commerce and Industry have put the rate of return of overpaid VAT among their basic measures. The economy has money, and the money on the budget, which is supposed to be 150 million euros, cannot even use it as a guarantee to raise credit. Not even a guarantee. The economy has money on the state budget, it needs money to rebuild production, it needs money to start production, and it cannot, for the new markets, because the financial market does not work, nor can it use the credits and funds it has, which it has earned, from the state budget that it should receive, even for a guarantee on the bank in order to obtain, say, credit, short-term credit. A number of measures are possible, including implementation. But what we can do right now, let's do it now. I don't think there's any need to postpone action for a while. The economy has earned money, it is in the state budget, and I think it is best to give it what it deserves, at least in time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u113	Thank you. Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Look, I'm listening to this debate, and I'm also referring to the Government's arguments, and I have to say that I would accept the Government's arguments if we actually offered some measures that I could trust them with. That these measures that you have taken so far, which have come from the government, will work for the future. I must say that I have more confidence in what is also written in the draft of this law, and this is a more effective measure. Indeed, Madam Secretary of State, you have literally announced the bankruptcy of the budget and do not comment on the economic crisis, so that it works within two months. You predicted a dream team. You have made two financial ministers, Mr Gaspari and Mr Križanič, and nothing works, obviously. Mr Rob, who is supposed to be an expert and a future European Commissioner, is not even here in your ranks. I don't know what kind of responsibility you're going to send a man like that to Brussels as Commissioner if he doesn't participate at all. Now there's something else I have to say. You're messing with some arguments. Mr Saiovic said earlier that in today's newspapers we can read how the Ministry of Finance is working and that this is the main topic, they are talking about credit crunches and government bonds. Maybe so. But today in the newspapers is the main topic of how to take care of the deleted, how to make reparations. They multiplied this Schindler list, as they said. I don't know how. And think about it. The media is already under government pressure. There should have been no transmission of the questions sent yesterday. Today all the media are full of this and some commentator wrote: "Parliament is not a place where many words should be spoken of deleted." Think of the attack on democracy! And tomorrow it will say what the government says in the financial field [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u115	Mr Jerovšek, we have a specific agenda item [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u116	"but this must not be spoken in Parliament..." [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u117	Please, hold on to her.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u118	Yes, listen, I have to react to such a drastic attack on democracy, because tomorrow they will write [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u119	It's a general debate, but it's about the law. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u120	I don't think you can stop us like that. See, the Finance Ministry or the Government has the tools to actually act and save where it needs to be saved. Here is a law that actually returns more quickly to the economy money, which is from the economy and which, if properly returned and properly invested, is back into the budget of two euros instead of one. And you're resisting what I see. I have to say, I don't trust this team anymore. I have no confidence, for how this financial spasm could have happened - yes, this team, which is now, and also Mr Zunič was part of it, at the same time you were Secretary of State, signed the millions prizes, departures. How many more of these millions of euros are going to go to awards and emoluments, I wonder. Take care of it! And that money, in my opinion, is not legitimate for sharing, it's not legitimate. And this money back to the economists, they produced it, they did their best, and they'll know how to turn it first. And don't defend yourself with good measures. But if you have better measures, bring them to Parliament! I hope that it will be fair to say that there will be no such threats, but that the deletions should no longer be discussed in Parliament, but compensation for the erased. We will also discuss these matters when you bring better measures to the table. Until you have better measures, however, you do not defend the measures offered by the opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u121	Thank you. This concludes the debate. On the proposal to decide that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide on Thursday, 29 January 2009, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to nine. Agenda item - First draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Banking Act. The draft law was tabled by the Government. With regard to this bill, a group of ten Members and Members with the first-signed Bojan Kontic requested the National Assembly to hold a general debate. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mrs. Kamnar, please. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members. Allow me to present briefly the substantial changes to the law that are under consideration at this time. The main amendments to the law relate to the implementation of the four Directives of the European Parliament or of the Council of Europe. These Directives relate in particular to the procedures for rules and evaluation criteria for a careful assessment of the acquisition of an increased share in the financial sector which entered into force in 2007. These directives must be implemented by Slovenia in its legal order by mid-March of this year. The main amendments to the law are based on three essential principles. The first is the principle of the safe, prudent and transparent operation of banks, which requires banks to effectively manage the risks to them or to them through appropriate measures. This principle is implemented through established rules, the most important of which are those requiring banks to have adequate capital adequacy, to establish a sound and sound management system, as well as appropriate strategies and processes to assess the necessary internal capital. It is also important to require banks to operate in accordance with the exposure limits and other constraints and to operate appropriately with liquidity. Another principle we follow is the principle of transparency. Third principle, the principle of prudent and effective control. The main solutions to changes in the law relate to the following. The ranges of licences for the acquisition of a qualified share shall be redefined and the rules on qualifying shares shall also apply to persons acting in a coordinated manner in the acquisition of bank shares. The criteria and procedures for assessing the suitability of the future qualified holder are newly defined. In so doing, the Bank of Slovenia must take into account the impact that the future qualified holder would likely have on the management of the bank if he acquires a qualified share and assesses the appropriateness of the future qualified holder on the basis of explicitly defined criteria. Specific rules for the decision of the Bank of Slovenia on the application for authorisation to acquire a qualified share shall also be laid down. In connection with the latest amendment to the Public Finance Act, it is also necessary to redefine the possibility of increased core capital in order to determine the economic stability of the bank. This control measure may, on the basis of a proposal for a law, be expressed either during the duration of an emergency administration or without an emergency management decision being issued, allowing greater flexibility in the choice of that measure or a combination of control measures which, in a particular case, enable the most effective resolution of the causes of capital inadequacy. We believe that the proposals we have drawn up are good and therefore we propose that you support them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u123	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Anton Urh will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u124	Mr Vice-President, distinguished representative of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! The amendment of the Banking Act is necessary in order to implement the European Directive, which has exacerbated the conditions for the acquisition of financial institutions. However, the Government has proposed the adoption of a proposal for a law for so long that it has obtained the opinion of the information officer concerning the acquisition of customer credit information. However, in the DeSUS Group, we believe that waiting for the opinion of the authorising officer has been justified, since there may have been a breach of the protection of personal data in the area of the evaluation of the monitoring of the security of natural persons. In addition, the deadline for implementing the Directive expires in March of this year. The Ministry of Finance has also consulted some other institutions: the Information Protection Office, the Consumer Protection Office and the Justice Ministry, which is a positive indication of the constructive cooperation of all departments. As regards the provisions on ratings of natural persons, the competent authorities have been able to harmonise it by reducing the data for natural persons exchanged by banks to a minimum. An exception applies only to persons who do not pay. In addition, this information is obsolete after five years because it means that it must be deleted from the register. Otherwise, the novelty requires the capacity of the acquirer to lead the financial institution in a qualitative manner, while the Bank of Slovenia also permits any purchase to be prevented if it turns out that the financial institution's potential acquirer is not able to manage it. We consider such an instrument in our parliamentary group to be appropriate, in particular in view of the current economic and financial situation, both for us and elsewhere in the world. The rules for the acquisition of banks must be precise, unequivocal and must be taken into account in the proposed text. The buyer will have to reach high standards after a new one in order to be able to control the bank. The Bank of Slovenia will issue a permit to acquire a qualified share of the bank, which will be able to determine the share of voting rights in the bank's capital in five different ranges. Up to 20%, up to one third, up to 50%, above 50%, and some percentage of which the future qualified holder becomes the parent of the bank. Of course, Banka Slovenije will have to take into account the impact that the future qualified holder would likely have on the management of the bank and also assess its suitability, including on the basis of its reputation and financial strength. The proposed amendments to the basic law will allow for the recapitalisation of the bank in order to ensure its economic stability. Such a control measure will be able to be issued by the Bank of Slovenia either during the duration of the emergency administration or even through the issuance of a decision on emergency management. In addition, the proposal for a new law provides that, in the event that the Bank of Slovenia is not executed by the shareholders of the bank, the Bank of Slovenia has the possibility of carrying out an increase in the bank’s core capital with actual deposits subject to creditors’ claims to the bank. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that the text of the amendment is prepared carefully and in accordance with the principles of the safe, prudent and transparent operation of banks and at the same time with the introduction of effective control institutes with the possibility of taking the necessary measures. We will therefore support the proposed text of the novel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u125	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u126	Third of all, I welcome you, colleagues and colleagues. Mr Vice-President and Mrs Kamnareva, who replaced Mr Minister. We hope in the Slovenian National Party, but we do not know whether the effects imposed by the European Union will be good for the banks or not. Otherwise, we wonder why SIS-BON should include information companies besides banks. I don't know why it should be, because, after all, whoever's asking for financial assistance, either to banks for loans or they want to borrow through lease houses, they have to bring one or another information anyway. And why is now the flow of this data from the banks to the leasing houses. Some even complain that not only those lease houses that are connected to banks, but even everything. Then it's best to put it in the papers. But let's leave. Why such a proposal? Why does the directive want it? Of course, we also wonder whether the green light for conversions is good or not. In this case, we believe in the Slovenian National Party that this could be good. Thus, the State would in practice convert the claim to the bank into shares when the guarantee was cashed to the bank, as already provided for by the Public Finance Act. This is also one of the measures we are talking about today in this law. Well, we are more skeptical in the work of the novel, where 10% of the shares in banks are issued by ownership licences for ranges, not for precisely defined shares. If you ask me against the fact that the NCBs, for example, would be Belgian, who now has the permission of Banka Slovenije for about 30% of the New Ljubljana Bank by implementing this proposed novel, which once got the green light by 50%. I'm not excited about it if you're the other ones I don't know about. However, some amendments to the Banking Act may already be necessary, perhaps once before. Will the amendment of the law make the operations of banks clearer and clearer than they are now, I don't know. For now in the Slovenian National Party, we know and claim that the operation of the largest bank in Slovenia at all, which we still believe in in the Slovenian National Party and which is also good to remain in state hands, is very blurry. I don't know if this novel will bring the conditions for individual rich people to have no more loans secured by the shares they bought or bought with these loans. For me, this is at this novel or without this novel, at least I'm telling you, a crime that's been committed because the bank's money was being spent just like that on loans secured by the shares they bought with this money. They're not going to lend 5,000 euros to one of the poor people at the bank to replace a 14-year-old car. If that's right, I don't know. I hope that this novelty will have an impact that too low a reservation will not affect the higher profits of banks than it has so far, nor will it affect the amount of the dizzying millions of euro prizes that some people are affording and allowing, which is a complete absurdity. Personally, if you could afford it to anyone, only Mr Franz Arhar, who was the only real banker for me, would be no matter what political colour. Last but not least about this law and this novelty, which will be decided by each of us in the Slovenian National Party, we will probably support it because we hope that a lot will change, but we are afraid that by setting these novels, as we say with the measures taken so far to re-energize the loans and activities of banks, these have been adopted, the effects, this information comes from companies, especially negative ones, these measures have not taken, nor have they taken the main measures for the banking sector: 12 billion euro guarantees and loans, because banks are waiting for guarantees and loans. In short, there is a great deal of chaos in the banking area right now, and we have to admit it to each other, and also to blame. Those who may have allowed such chaos in the past and those who allow it now. As it is said, in the Slovenian National Party we will decide on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Banking Act. Perhaps we will support it in order to hope that it will be created in this fog of banking, a ray of sunshine that will clear up and give us a vision of what is going on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u127	Thank you, Mr. Barovich. Mag. Radovan Žerjav will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear secretary, colleague and colleague! The reason for the amendment to the law before us, as in the amendment to the Insurance Act, is because of the transposition of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council into our legal order. The content is similar. The law also clearly sets out the time components for deciding whether to obtain a qualified share. It also specifies the criteria on the basis of which the Bank of Slovenia assesses the appropriateness of the future qualified shareholder and identifies the impact it would likely have on the management of the bank. Of course, all with a view to ensuring the safe and careful management of the bank in which the future qualified holder intends to acquire a qualified share. Of course, in further consideration of the law, it will be necessary to examine the actual possibilities, which my predecessor has already considered that Banka Slovenije would start issuing ownership licences for ranges and not more for precisely defined shares, to qualified holders, as a rule 10% of the shares in banks. The Belgian NCBs could thus get a 50% chance in the New Ljubljana Bank, which would not be good. Of course, in the Slovenian People's Party, we disagree and feel that, as we have always believed, the majority share in NLB and in which other important financial institution must remain in Slovenian hands. Nevertheless, we will support this proposed law in the SLS Group at this time, but we will certainly continue to amend it in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u129	Thank you, Mr. Zerjav. Mag. Borut Saiovic will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Greetings to the guests of the Ministry! Colleagues and colleagues! We have before us one of the alignments with the European Directive, which we support in the Liberal Democracy Club. Here I will also present you with one of our serious concerns, which must be discussed, to find a solution before the final adoption. The key solution to the bill is that the business bank cannot and must not take over anyone, as Banka Slovenije can prevent the acquisition of the bank's share, and we think that is the case in the group. One of the important criteria is the financial stability of the new owner of the bank's equity. The new Banking Act is therefore necessary for the implementation of European directives that have exacerbated the conditions for the acquisition of financial institutions and which provide a number of security clauses for their acquisition. The note requires the ability of the acquirer to lead the financial institution well and allows the Bank of Slovenia to prevent any purchase if it turns out that the potential acquirer of the financial institution is not able to lead. The main new solutions are the ranges of authorisation to acquire a qualified share, with the Bank of Slovenia setting the percentage of voting rights or the share of the bank's capital. In doing so, the Bank of Slovenia must take into account the likely impact of the future qualified holder on the management of the bank in order to ensure the safe and sound management of the bank and assess the appropriateness of the future holder on the basis of its reputation and experience of persons who will be able to manage the bank or otherwise influence the operation of the bank. The criterion is also undoubtedly the financial strength of the future qualified holder. Changes are also in the decision-making process to obtain a qualified share. The Banking Act also provides for the possibility of recapitalisation with real deposits or transfer of loans to equity if such a financial institution is in difficulty. Then there's a matter with which we have quite a few problems. This is a system of mandatory exchange of credit information on natural persons. This is data on debt, the amount of annuity, limits, late payments and the like, which has been valid for banks since 2006 and operational since the beginning of last year. The shortcut is popular SISBON. This will now also apply to the leasing of companies owned or owned by banks, the problem, but not to other leases of non-banking companies. These are significant and also have a lot of market shares. I will not appoint them by word of mouth, because this would be unnecessary for the EPP, but they take up an important share of the Slovenian market space and have sound, trusted names. This restriction was adopted on the proposal of an information officer who is afraid that the extension to all house leasing in the country would trigger a plaza of similar matters, so that such data in that country would also be checked by insurers, card holders, trading houses and so on. And this opens up a basic thought of what we're dealing with. One proverb says: "Honest cops are not afraid. And I think that anyone who takes credit for leasing with honest, concrete purposes should not have any problems with that. However, if there is a purpose, what is happening to us in practice, that we have an indebted country, that some municipalities have financial problems, and that many of our citizens have problems with personal finances, and that we do not properly regulate regulations and legislation yet encourage them. Then I see a pretty serious problem here. I think that the goal of every orderly and exemplary society must be that everyone, except for social transfers, orders as much as he has in his wallet. And if this is a position from the point of view of the Commissioner's mission, whose task is solely to protect and therefore access to this information in principle tries to revive and suppress the use of personal data everywhere, then another aspect of the problem needs to be looked at: Who will then protect the leasing agent? Because these leasers don't just offer leasings. To a large extent, they credit individuals, natural persons and ultimately consumers themselves, in one way or another, before over-indebtedness and personal bankruptcy. Is it in our interest that people are personally overly indebted and beyond their financial abilities?Oh, my God! There is a risk that now mechanically accredited individuals will go to leasing houses for credit, especially those who do not have these requirements for checking ratings. And we don't see any real logic, and even by the principle of honesty, it's not that we're separating these leasing houses - that those who happen to own banks will have fast, independent access to information, but not all of them, because in our case a large part of the leasing companies will be eliminated. It is important to ask whether this is in line with the objectives of a moral and normal society. At the Liberal Democracy Club, we will support the law and give a clear signal that it is suitable for further consideration, as such a law contributes to a more stable, safer financial sector both in Slovenia and in the European Union. Indirectly, it is also linked to the current financial crisis, as the implementation will gradually certainly also help to enable business banks to obtain better quality and financial strength, particularly for more responsible co-owners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u131	Thank you, Mr. Sayovic. Mr Mirko Brulc will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u132	All in attendance, all in attendance! Social democracy supports the amendment of the law because changes to the law are in fact necessary in order to implement the European Directive, which has exacerbated the conditions for takeover financial institutions. The novelty brings improvements and some security clauses in the acquisition of financial institutions. Novela also requires the capacity of the acquirer to lead the financial situation well, and allows the Bank of Slovenia to prevent any purchase if it turns out that the potential acquirer of the financial institution is not able to lead. The main new solutions to the draft law are the ranges of licences for obtaining a qualified share, with the Bank of Slovenia setting the percentage of voting rights or the share of the capital of the bank for which the authorisation is granted. In doing so, the Bank of Slovenia must take into account the impact that the future qualified holder would likely have on the management of the bank and assess the appropriateness of the future qualified holder on the basis of his reputation, reputation and experience of persons who will be able to manage the bank or otherwise influence the operation of the bank. The criterion is also the financial strength of the future qualified holder. In particular, as regards the types of transactions carried out or planned by the bank and the likely consequences for the bank's ability to act in accordance with the risk management rules. Changes are also in the decision-making process to obtain a qualified share. In this way, the Bank of Slovenia must issue a decision within two days to remedy the deficiency of the requirement to obtain a qualified share. However, within two days of receipt of the request, it must also issue a certificate upon receipt of the complete licence application. The Bank of Slovenia must decide on the request within 60 working days. However, the applicant shall be required to provide additional information or documents, with an extension of a maximum period of 20 days for the decision on the application. Banka Slovenije may require additional information or documents after receipt of the decision, but this does not extend the decision period. The Banking Act provides for the possibility of recapitalisation of real deposits or transfer of loans to own shares if the financial institution is in difficulty. With the amendment of the law, the increase in core capital, in order to ensure the economic stability of the bank, is a special control measure that the Bank of Slovenia can impose during the duration of the emergency management without issuing an emergency management decision. This allows the Bank of Slovenia to be more flexible when choosing a control measure or their combination, which, in a particular case, allows the most effective solution to the causes of the Bank's capital inadequacy and to ensure its economic stability. If the shareholders of the bank do not make an increase in the bank’s core capital, Banka Slovenije has the opportunity to increase the bank’s core capital on behalf of the shareholders’ and other competent authorities on behalf of the bank’s shareholders by means of actual deposits subject to creditors’ claims to the bank. Because of these good features of the proposed law, the Group of Social Democrats supports the conclusion that the law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u133	Thank you, Mr. Brultz. Mr Rado Likar will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Chairman. Nice greetings to all present. Similarly to insurance, banking is a specific activity and is therefore subject to relatively frequent decisions to change banking legislation and to adapt it to the legal order of the European Union. In the SDS Group, we believe that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Banking Act is appropriate for further consideration. With regard to the objectives and principles, we have no comments as well as the amendment to the Insurance Act, the proposal on amendments and additions to the Banking Act is being amended, in order to harmonise national legislation with two European directives, as regards the criteria for assessing the appropriateness of the future qualified holder, the decision-making procedure for obtaining a qualified share, the increase in basic capital to ensure the economic stability of the bank and the range of licences for obtaining a qualified share. Complementing the arrangements for the collection of processing and the information exchange system on client creditworthiness will help to increase financial discipline and prevent over-indebted customers. Here too, as in the proposal for the amendment of the Insurance Act, in our view, in Article 12, which provides for an assessment of the suitability of a future qualified holder, it would be necessary to define more precisely. Indeed, it is not clear by what criteria the reputation of a future qualified holder will be assessed. The SDS will support the proposed amendment to the Banking Act at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u135	Thank you. We're done with the presentation. Mr Villa Trofenik will also present the position of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u136	Thank you for your word. As with the amendments and additions to the Insurance Act currently under consideration, the proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Banking Act for the partial implementation of Directive 2007/144, and in addition to Directive 2007/64, goes also to the part concerning the amendment of Directive 2006/48 as regards the procedural rules and the assessment criteria for the careful assessment of acquisitions and the increase of shares in the financial sector. The proposed amendments to the Banking Act provide for safe, prudent and transparent operation and careful and effective supervision of the operation of banks. Banks are obliged to establish a sound and sound management system also through rules on the administration and holders of qualifying shares, with capital sobriety, operating in accordance with exposure limits and other constraints, and with adequate liquidity management. The law shall provide the competent supervisory authority with the possibility of issuing control measures to exercise effective and careful control. As regards the authorisation to acquire qualified shares, the law classifies holders in five classes depending on the proportion of voting rights or the share of the bank’s capital. The law also introduces criteria for assessing the suitability of a future qualified holder, namely the reputation of a future qualified holder, the reputation and experience of persons who will be able to manage the bank or otherwise influence the operations of the bank, the financial stability of the future qualified holder and the likely consequences of obtaining a qualified share, on the conduct of the bank in accordance with the risk management rules. The law further limits the time limit for the granting of a permit by the Bank of Slovenia for obtaining a qualified share. The law also defines the increase in core capital to ensure the economic stability of the Bank of Slovenia, which allows the Bank of Slovenia to be more flexible in the choice of control measures or combinations of control measures that enable the effective resolution of the causes of the capital failure of banks. Although the introductory explanation of the law only defines compliance with the Directives mentioned, these amendments relate to these amendments, that is to say compliance with the Directives with only 15 of the eleventies. Or for 66 articles there are other reasons which would be at least mentioned in the explanatory memorandum. These include the minority mentioned in Article 390a of the Act submitted in the second paragraph of Article 72, which introduces a distinction between leasing companies owned by banks and other leasing companies with regard to the obligation to exchange credit information and for which there is a real risk of being disregarded in the adoption procedure. However, this is not the only one that requires attention, monitoring the further consideration of the law. Nevertheless, in the Group of Members, we do believe that the law before us is the appropriate basis for further consideration and will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u137	Thank you, Mr. Trofenic. We are now really done with the presentation of the parliamentary groups and are going to the general debate of Members and Members. First of all, Mr. Majhenič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u138	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. The objective of each investment is a safe investment for which the bank must also guarantee. It is therefore appropriate to advocate a law that will also impose on banks the responsibility to deal with capital. The sale of shares should not only be a source of short-term recapitalisation of the bank, as in the case of the New Bank of Maribor, that people owed to the same bank and took loans to buy shares. It is true that long-term investments are made in stocks. Which is understandable. But in the case of the New Bank, strange things were happening. The crediting of various acquisitions by companies, thereby bringing the bank, investors and, last but not least, the country into a hopeless situation, must be prevented by this law. I agree that the audit supervision of the operations of banks must be upgraded. In particular, the annual report should be clear on compliance with the rules on bank risk management. The exchange of credit information with credit rating systems of other Member States banks is certainly meaningful in all respects, including in the field of risk. The supervisory authorities of banks must also be responsive and effective on their own initiative. By amending and supplementing the law, we will finally gain more effective control over banks and banks will gain greater mutual trust and trust among savers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u139	Thank you. Mrs. Brunskole has the floor. For I call only those on the list who are present in the hall. Here you go, ma'am.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u140	Nicely greeted! As has been said several times today, when we discussed changes or amendments to the law, the amendment of the Insurance Act, something similar is involved in the amendments to the Banking Act. Given that the banking system has undergone quite a few changes in recent years in the Slovenian banking area, I myself have also felt this indirectly as a bank, I can say that in these amendments to the Banking Act there are indications that we are adapting to the European Directive. We also want to limit or adjust matters in some way from the point of view of control and from the point of view of individual security clauses in such a way that, with the help of the Bank of Slovenia, we can operate in the Slovenian banking area as necessary. Of course, in the interest of the Banking Act itself, it is also in relation to what we have discussed today, and this is also about the fact that the banking system works effectively, including in terms of capital adequacy and financial liquidity, so that it can service both the economy and public institutions in a qualitative way. I will also support the amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Banking Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u141	Thank you. Mr. Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Good-bye to all of you again! In this debate, I think it is good to remember what we have faced a short time ago, I think a bad half a year, because we have talked about the capital adequacy of banks, especially in relation to the two banks that are still in the largest state ownership. If this change will help to make it more transparent and more efficient, and better indicators that, as we see in the material in the explanatory notes, are not the best, then of course it needs to be supported. Yes, the interesting situation in the National Assembly was about six months ago by individual representatives of Banka Slovenije, when at two different board meetings two different vice-governors spoke entirely diametrically about whether any of the Slovenian banks, which are majority-owned by the state, was threatened by the placement of so-called management loans. And then, by one of these gentlemen, who was, by the way, a candidate for Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, we heard that he was not afraid that any of the banks were at risk. A few weeks, or two later, from the other, which said that a large majority of the loans of one of these banks were placed in a group around one of the major Slovenian companies, which was granted in the so-called Taiwanese privatisation. So, if I cut it short. If this law will improve parameters in this area, then I think it should be supported. However, Slovenia's banks and both of them, which are owned by the majority of the country, were extremely successful last year. Because of this, even in the light of what we discussed at this point, it is a miracle that these mechanisms by the State cannot be connected in an appropriate way and that we encourage what we call a 'loan spasm' which is still going on and we cannot somehow penetrate it. Now, what is missing in this law, given that the Government has dealt with it on 15 January this year and that we are a witness in the media to big words about whether and in what way, it is appropriate that, like the Presidents of the Bank's administrations, we are rewarded. Of course, there is a shortage of what the Government wants to settle with recommendations and where it doubts in advance whether or not it will succeed in these recommendations. By the way, Mr Lahovnik, former Member of Parliament, was an extremely great expert when he spoke of the general human privatisation of New KBM, along with Mr Cvikl, then a Member of Parliament, pointed out that the state had decided to sell Novo KBM. It would be interesting to hear it today, in these circumstances. Its expert evaluations, on the basis of which it was based at the time on a media coup against the then finance minister who defended the model. But let's leave it to the experts, to the experts, to the experts, to the experts and to the different, to judge the profession, not the politics. In this light, there is no doubt that the question that the new Government wants or is to solve is also raised. A million euros is the prize of the former Prime Minister, a close associate of former Prime Minister Drnovska, who will be paid from the funds of all of us taxpayers. The recommendations that have been adopted hear that they do not depend, because the attempt to limit this award to the contract in the previous term was not successful. So something better than this law to bring in the relevant provisions that will sanction the solution. But of course we don't find that in the marriage. By the way, we find provisions that will allow KBC to become more than half the owner of the bank. If the purpose that is created in public and which borders on defeat against those who are politically not compatible, if this new will is no longer removed, is serious, then, at least what is, in this law - the opportunity is ideal, on 15 January it was discussed in the Government - you could read provisions on the awards of the supervisory boards of banks and so on. And the ideal opportunity, in connection with the relevant tax legislation, where you could, if you so set yourself up, settle the problem once and for all, without populism and without pressing the cross of those who have a upright spine and trust in their expertise and success. And we would write, as much as the President of the Government, ladies and gentlemen deserves, it can be earned in this country in any chair. All that is above this amount is a hundred percent income. However, you do not say this, nor do you write anything similar in this proposal of the law that we have on the table today. Why? Because it's not about regulating things by content, away from it. You are talking about cheap populist propaganda at a time when we should take seriously the situation in which Slovenia is increasingly speeding up. And I have a feeling that you're like the Titanic who's going to the finish line and doesn't see the rock in front of you. But this rock is getting closer. It is unfortunate that on this Titanic, ladies and gentlemen, it is not only you who have been most entrusted with the responsibility for change, but we are all with you. And we'll all sink. And here's the point between the opposition and the position that they don't understand in any way, and they don't want to understand that there's no time to argue about who's sitting in the chair, but it's time to take effective action without populism subtons going in a very strange direction. The last time I made a joke, I was going to ask the President of the National Assembly to replace the savings lamps in Audi 8 that cost some 150,000 euros to drive. But that's how these things work, sorry. They're funny, I know, but they're already tragic and I think that even with this non-amendment, it's with what it might not have been, but you're proving that you're not in favour of what you stand for and that you want things to remain in the tax area under the influence of what he had by 2004 until 3 October and which he is now doing again, after this four-year vacuum, because you named Mr Kramar a little before the elections and Mr Veselinović now that he's again a new authority, the same as he was four years ago remain in the same hands. Previously on LDS, now back in the hands of LDS. The only difference is that it is now the President of the Management Board who should be sitting at the seat of Mrs Katarina Kresal. For the people elected him to the National Assembly, and not to the seat of the President of the New LB administration. The procedure carried out in accordance with all normal criteria, without checking the most capable, even as the world of the Bank of Slovenia had warned, and as if nothing had happened. This is what I personally miss in this marriage. There is still an opportunity for this to be settled before the final examination. On the other hand, in general, I think that these changes need to be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Dr. Luke Yuri has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Respectable associates and coworkers. I think we can join the general opinion that this proposal is appropriate. For not only does it regulate compliance with European directives, but it primarily allows for certain interventions that are very important at this time. Globally, we see that all countries have great difficulties in ensuring liquidity or in actually stimulating their banks to finally borrow money again. They have problems in the United States, regardless of the 700 billion "bail-out plan". They have problems in Britain. Britain has recently had to cut into this market for the second time to stimulate, simulate, and simulate, given loans. Germany will probably have to do it again. It's probably Italy, too. And France has already done it twice. The options we have aren't great. On the one hand, nationalisation is possible; on the other hand, it is possible to buy bad claims, and this amendment also regulates this domain so that the Bank of Slovenia can intervene more actively precisely in problematic options that prevent or exacerbate the overall liquidity situation in the Slovenian credit market. As regards the debate in which I have to find that it is not directly relevant to this topic, it is relevant to some media setting, the question of awards. Here I think that the opinion now expressed by the opposition is similar to the opinion we have on the side of the coalition. So that certain awards, even at this time, are inappropriate and unhygienic. Unfortunately, the Social Democrats had no opportunity and had no insight into the treaties that set these awards. The ruling Slovenian Democratic Party had this option for four years. She also said that she did it to stop when she was a signatory, so in this case we know who it was, of course, because it was not in his interest, he refused to sign the annex. So I would ask the present opposition, the then ruling party: Why did she not act legally at the time, and she had four years to solve it? Why did she close the book and leave a big problem? She was aware of this problem: Why did she not warn the public about the problem? I directly ask Mr Visionak, who, unfortunately, is not in the Chamber now, regardless of what he should be discussing, and who was the Minister of Economic Affairs at the time: Why did he not raise this issue in public? Why is he dragging himself out today with explanations that don't convince him? I agree that the economic situation in many places can be similar to that of the Titanic, which sails toward the icy mountain. However, I must point out that in Slovenia the direction towards the icy mountain, unfortunately, with many wrong and pro-cyclical decisions has been set by the Government under the leadership of the Slovenian Democratic Party. And the Social Democrats will not be the Titanic, but we will do our best to ensure that instead of playing the story of the Titanic, we play the story of Carpathia and save the people of this story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mr. Miran Bezjak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u146	Thank you so much for saying that. Well welcomed, Mr President of the National Assembly, members of the Ministry, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! In the SDS Group, we believe that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Banking Act is good and will be supported in the end. However, I have a few questions that are not exactly written about what can happen in order to prevent just such matters, which are now being discussed by colleagues from the SD Group. Surely a qualified holder is a good thing, only the important thing is whether these qualified holders are once again related or any of the friends and so on. You've touched the new Maribor Credit Bank before. Six, seven years ago, New Bank of Credit sold out the share of Dinner. They said that it was at the time that Pivovarna Laško stole it from the Credit Bank Maribor. It was in this story that Pivovarna Laško reselled her share of the Supper and was the buyer's son of the then president of the KBM Line of Mesarič. And then what happened? That this guy sold Del again and so on. I see at dinner tonight that work sells dinner. It's a game. I think it's most important that the Ministry of Finance actually wonders where this money goes then, which, after all, in this chain, believe me, there is no money at all. This is the money of citizens, citizens or taxpayers. It is true that there was a lot of talk last year about the sale of KBM that the share was too low. It turned out that the shares or companies were overblown, that they were much less valuable than they actually are. Where's the €43 now? Who would buy the 43 Euros of Maribor's New Bank of Credit? Here it is important to ask that there will be no different machinations. I absolutely agree that we are taking a big step forward with this amendment of the law, but let us examine it later, with various amendments, to complement that there will actually be no such and other frauds. There's no information on the President's or the president's prize that can't be seen anywhere. Now this is what happened at the Ljubljana Bank. What's going to happen somewhere else? This must be prevented from repeating these stories. I have already told the President of the Government at the November session that there is a need to reduce the awards and salaries to the Presidents of the administrations, as well as the prizes of the Supervisory Boards. These are enormous numbers that lead us to destruction, and these things we need to actually engage professionally and take them all together. Whether it's a coalition or an opposition. To prevent these things from happening and to repeat what happened yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Kampush has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u148	Thank you, President. It is nice that there are changes and additions on the table so that we can prevent some anomalies. For this reason, of course, I will support this proposal and I will gladly support the first hearing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Borut Saiovic. Please. He's quitting. Mr. Rado Likar has the floor. He's not here. Would you like a word with the proposer? He doesn't want to. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss the Rules of Procedure under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I'm guessing he does. I'm giving you a chance to report. Well. They've been reported to be two, each with five minutes of time. Dr. Luke Yuri has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u150	Thank you very much. I had the opportunity to listen to the debate, I would like to thank you for your efforts to actually look for arguments, not demagogic cleansing. This, of course, is positive - both by the opposition and by the coalition. With regard to the appropriateness of the law, I would like to point out that we must not stop at the banking system. Because the government will have to take a number of other decisions to ensure liquidity. However, we must be aware, and I also ask the opposition colleagues that the European Union will also have to look for better solutions in the medium and short term for concerted performances by all banks, together with the central banks, with the European Central Bank, I apologize, in the banking market. Therefore, I also appeal to the opposition's colleagues to seek a solution in the form of a resolution with us, i.e. a party to the European Social Democrats in the European Parliament, so that we can solve these issues not only in the Slovenian market, because we know that we are a small and open economy, including in the banking market, on the whole of Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u152	Thank you. I think that there is something irresponsible left, which would not be good, given that we were needlessly challenged in the Slovenian Democratic Party to the issue of why we have not settled in our mandate what we now see not to be regulated by this law. I think it is not only a matter of the Slovenian Democratic Party, but you need to look back three times, otherwise Mr Rob is not sitting in that chair today, but he has a seat in this Parliament. He was the Prime Minister of the Government when this bank sold a third of its assets to the Belgian NCB and he was the finance minister under which Mr. Zunič, the President of the Supervisory Board, signed a contract setting out a million euros in prizes to the former President of the Administration, worked. So in your own kind, find the answer to why. Not with us. You're looking for him for nothing. In the past mandate, the Slovenian Democratic Party, through the Government, made recommendations to the President of the Administration and to the members of the Supervisory Boards, tried to regulate these relations in accordance with applicable legislation and in accordance with European legislation. You also know what these restrictions are, your Minister Lahovnik says: "I have no information on the content of Mr Veselinovic's new contract." Interesting. I was talking about how you know all this very well and that you know very well the relationship in this society, yet you deliberately establish a psychosis of witch hunting where it's the least necessary. I was talking about that if you are actually about regulating these relations and you really want to prevent overly and unjustifiable rewards and riches, then do it here in the National Assembly by adopting appropriate legislation. That's why you have more than the necessary majority. What's more, we'll back you up on that. Everybody. All the way. But don't do it with cheap populism, like you did before the elections when you compared incomparable data. When you spoke on one side about how much a member of the Supervisory Board deserved and pointed out information about his annual reward and compared this data with the monthly average salary and then came number 42:1000, instead of 42:83. This, I advise you not to do, because now you are the ruling coalition, you have taken responsibility for the leadership of this country in September and the populist language no longer bothers you. Neither will people reward him anymore, as they rewarded him in the hope that something would really change after September 21. This time you will be punished for this language. I am putting this on your heart, and I have also told you this in the debate, and because of this I have also told you what I do not think it contains in this law, but it would be good to have it written, if your purposes are in fact what you are exposing. But I don't think they are, because if they were like that without this exaggerated populism they'd already come to this National Assembly, it's been more than enough time. Only one article of the law needs to be amended, introduced by the fourth tax class and said, "All those who earn more than 60,000 euros, 70,000, 100,000, 200,000 euros, because of me, are taxed annually with a 100% rate of income." And the problem is solved for everyone. No more recommendations have to be accepted, no more populism is necessary and the financial impact is thousands of times against what you are doing now that you are suffering, I must say, very persistently, first with cappuccinos, then with the saving of flowers. I support everything that there will be no misunderstanding, everything, but most of all I support the elimination of all those nonsensees in the legislation, to which I have also warned those ministers who were responsible for each area in the previous mandate, they produce the production of unnecessary things that cost very much, and I support this most. And in the area of the law that we are talking about today, I support that we will actually have a transparent picture. I hope that we will get this change and that the two members of the Bank of Slovenia will not talk about the same matters in a diametric way when it came to assessing the threat of one of Slovenia's largest banks, one said that the threat is nothing, and the other that it is enormous because about 60% of this portfolio is placed in a group that is associated with one and the same economic entity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-01-28-SDZ5-Redna-02.ana.u153	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to decide that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will decide on Thursday, 29 January 2009, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. I also adjourn the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow, on Thursday, 29 January 2009, at 10 a.m. Thank you very much, very good-bye.
