ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. I begin the ninth meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members and Members are unable to attend today's meeting: Miran Györek, Aloyz Posedel, Breda Pecan, expected by 16:00 and Joško Godec. I have invited the President of the Government, Mr Borut Pahor, and the Secretary-General of the Government, to the first item of the agenda and the representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the agenda of the 9th meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda by reference to the meeting on 11 September 2009. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for withdrawal or extension of the agenda. We're moving on to a day's work. Members and Members, please check your voting devices, and the orange light must be on the right hand side of the card. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 75 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 9th meeting of the National Assembly is set. With this adjournment of the 9th session of the National Assembly, we will continue at 3 p.m. with the 1st item of the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u2	Dear fellow Members and Members. We're moving on to one. A TIME OF DAY, THAT'S ON THE QUESTIONS OF MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. With regard to this item on the agenda, I have received 44 written applications for questions sent to me within the deadline of business. The order of the question referred shall be laid down on the basis of an agreement with the Heads of the groups of Members and in accordance with Article 244(2), Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition and the Member of the ruling coalition's question to the Member of Parliament will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. Each Member shall have three minutes to ask the question, the President of the Government and ministers shall answer the question within a maximum of five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have five minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. The Member who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Secretary-General of the Government. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, Minister or Secretary-General of the Government must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. On this point, the following ministers and ministers apologized for today: Katarina Kresal, Minister of the Interior, Dr Patrick Vlačič, Minister of Transport, Samuel Žbogar, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mag. Milan Martin Cwickl, Secretary General of the Government, Mag. Zlata Plosteiner, Minister without a department responsible for local self-government and regional development and Borut Miklavčič, Minister of Health. You have received an overview of the questions and initiatives that were not answered in the course of business. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. Procedural, Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u3	Thank you so much for saying that. There is no foreign minister again today. I would like to point out that he was present at the last eight sessions only twice and not once at the last five sessions. Thus, a number of questions raised by Members have remained unanswered for more than five months. It may not be particularly necessary to say that the Institute of the oral question is intended to answer the Minister immediately, and it is unacceptable that we have been waiting for some of the Minister's answers for five months, since April. This is obviously about the Minister's escape, which is irresponsible. It is also irresponsible of the Government, including the President of the Government, not to remind his ministers of their duties to the National Assembly. This responsibility is even greater because at the beginning of the term of office, the President of the Government specifically said that ministers in the National Assembly would be fully present. And on the Foreign Minister's case, we can see that that's not true. And something like a minister not to be present at five consecutive meetings of the National Assembly has not yet happened in this house. This also shows that the communication and information blockade of the National Assembly continues. This point of foreign policy does not include a silent diplomacy between the National Assembly and the Government, or vice versa, between the Government and the National Assembly and ministers. The National Assembly remains unanswered. I'd suggest two things. First of all, the procedural proposal that the item should not be answered to parliamentary questions today and that the point of reply by the Minister of Foreign Affairs should continue on Friday. And if this procedural proposal is not adopted, I propose that the President of the Government, Mr Pahor, respond to the questions raised by Members concerning the Foreign Minister. After all, it is the President of the Government who may temporarily replace the Minister in the event of absence. However, if that is not the case, then I propose that the President of the Government authorizes one of the ministers to answer these unanswered parliamentary questions. For it is more than obvious that we have been given the feeling that the Minister for Foreign Affairs does not feel competent to answer Members' questions. And I propose this order of decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. Tanko. Look, Foreign Minister Samuel Zbogar sent me a letter, addressed it to the President of the National Assembly, and I'll read it to you: "Dear President Dr. Gantar! Allow me to apologize to you personally for not participating at the 9th meeting of the National Assembly on 21. 9. 2009 on questions sent. I have not attended a meeting of the National Assembly since May to attend the General Affairs and External Relations Council in Brussels and to meet between the Bureau of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe and the Presidential Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in Paris. This time too, it is a very important meeting of the UN General Assembly in New York, where the President of the Republic, Dr. Türk, and I myself have a lot of responsibilities. I want to let you know that I will do everything I can to attend the October 19th meeting. 10. and answer all the questions raised." So the minister doesn't avoid it, but he's obviously also picking up the problem of not answering. The fact is that the meetings were adopted for general foreign affairs and external relations in Brussels on Monday, which was a major problem already in the previous mandate, including the current one. Therefore, it is unrealistic to expect that he is at the General Assembly meeting so that he can answer any questions this week. Therefore, I cannot put your proposal concerning the postponement of the item to the adjournment of the meeting to a vote. We're actually counting on Minister Zbogar to be 19. 10. but came and answered all the questions raised. Otherwise, some form of representation will have to be found because such absence is really not appropriate for Parliament's work. Please, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u5	Thank you very much. First of all, Mr President, I think you are obliged to put the motions of procedure to a vote, no matter what you think of them. If the Minister is absent and has not been present for so long, then you, as President of the National Assembly, are obliged to take care of yourself if the Government itself is unable to organise and the Secretary-General of the Government is unable to prepare its ministers to attend the meeting of the National Assembly and also to tell when they can answer that the work can be organised so that Members can receive appropriate answers at the current meeting. Given that the secretaries of state cannot answer the questions of ministers, I propose that the President of the Government, instead of the Minister, be responsible. If the President of the Government does not answer that question, then I propose that he authorize one of the ministerial teams who are here to answer these questions. These are just ordinary things, and it is unacceptable that we have not received an answer for more than five months. The second problem is that we do not yet have a Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy. It may also be part of this problem that work does not take place within the National Assembly as it was expected that a two-and-a-half-month or more coalition would not be able to deal with who will lead the Foreign Policy Committee in the National Assembly. And these chaotic conditions are apparently transferred from the government to the National Assembly. It's time to end this. I therefore propose that we, Madam President, decide on these procedural proposals. It is necessary to vote on them because they are properly given and also stand in business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. Tanko. First, I would like to stress once again that the questions addressed to ministers are personal and that they must be answered by them and no one else but them. Can not get folder: %s: %s It is the minister's responsibility to attend these meetings, although we have a serious problem here, due to the obligations he has on Mondays abroad. However, this problem is not from this mandate, it is quite a long one. No one can answer for him. At least we have a promise here that it will be 19. 10. But he came and answered. Come in. As far as your procedural proposal is concerned, I will not put it to the vote because it is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The President of the National Assembly shall determine the timing of the meeting. You suggested breaking the point after today, not rescheduling the point. That would, of course, be put to the vote. At the same time, I must remind you that the work in the National Assembly is going on normally, that the Foreign Affairs Committee has met several times during this time. That Minister Žbogar was also present and your criticism of the work of the committee is unfounded and unjustifiable. I hereby conclude this debate. Please do it again, but please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I propose that we stop this point and continue it when the conditions for the continuation of this point are met. This is also sufficient for these additional requirements of yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u8	I could make a motion to postpone the point. There are conditions for the continuation of this point, and of course I cannot and cannot stop it. I can't and I can't stop. And that's why, of course, we're going to continue. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. As I said, the first four questions will be answered by Prime Minister Borut Pahor. The question will be asked first by Victory Jelinčič Nobleni, Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u9	Thank you very much. That's a nice hello to you all. The problem with Croatia has been ongoing since 1991, due to the incompetence of all governments so far. Because of the lack of knowledge of historical facts and the close connection of former colleagues from the same political structures. The undeniable fact is that we have missed a lot in this time of year. A whole series of stupid, unfortunate, imported proposals were presented, which were fortunately not accepted on the Croatian side. Now we're talking about taking a step forward. However, it is questionable what this step is, for at the very beginning the Slovenian side has agreed to talk about the border in the Gulf of Piran, which Croatia has already imputed us from the very beginning. The undeniable fact is that Slovenia has entered a common Yugoslav country with Slovenian countries, with Styria, Koroška, Kranjsko, Primorsko. The coastline was week-long and indivisible. It contained the entire territory from Vršič to Lošinj. It was only distributed by gentlemen after the Second World War with a communist decree in Belgrade, when Croatia was taken from Srem, joined to the People's Republic of Serbia, and in return they gave Istria to Croats with three Quarner Islands and joined it to the People's Republic of Croatia. By normal law, what is brought into law, even when this law is dissolved, is taken back in divorce. Slovenia has the absolute right to require the entire Slovenian national territory, which was then included in Yugoslavia. The fact is that even the invaders from 1941 to 1945 were aware of where the Slovenian national territory was, and therefore never and never joined that work to their already biting allies in the Independent State of Croatia. Today, in Slovenia, there are some quasi historians and quasi-legal experts who in neighbouring European countries could not even represent the one who would undermine the neighbor's dog's grip, because they do not know, cannot, do not know, do not know history, but are in fact afraid. That's why I'm asking the Prime Minister: Does the Government have any basis for any arbitration or other form of dispute resolution?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u10	Thank you. Please, Prime Minister Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u11	Your Honor! The government has a starting point ready. Before this high assembly, I will risk a bold statement that Friday's agreement with the President of the Croatian Government was one of Slovenia's most successful political and diplomatic moves in 18 years when it comes to resolving the dispute with Croatia. Why? Because we are in a very difficult political situation where, unlike the expectations that it has been pressured on both countries to resolve the dispute, virtually since Commissioner Rehn's withdrawal from the attempt to solve it, there was no pressure to resolve it, but the countries were left to find their own solution. And in mid-July, I assessed that it would be good to give an initiative that would satisfy our interests. And it is. We have received Croatia's commitment to resolve the border issue in one way or another before it enters the European Union. This was also confirmed in writing by the notice of the Foreign Ministry of the Republic of Croatia last week, on Tuesday, when it was very clear that we were returning to negotiating points with 15. 6. 2009 This means that we are back to Commissioner Rehn's proposal for an arbitration agreement, which sets out in Article 3 inter alia the link or contact of Slovenia with the high seas. Except in the Drnovšek - Račan Slovenija agreement, such an achievement has not been achieved in the effort to resolve the border issue. We now have this opportunity again; the National Assembly will be sent the starting points for an arbitration agreement; the Committee on Foreign Affairs is working normally and will also be appointed as the new President. For the last time, I was at a meeting of this important committee, together with the Committee on European Affairs. The Committee will, I hope, agree on the negotiating points. Both countries and the international community, the European Union, I have been to the Council on Thursday, welcomes this agreement, and also knows what its content is, knows that we will continue negotiations on the basis of the proposal for an arbitration agreement, which Rehn has made on the basis of complementing Slovenian diplomacy with its draft. We have achieved a lot, including the arbitration tribunal, the starting points are clear to the Government, will give them to the National Assembly, and I hope that the Committee will confirm that, as the Swedish Presidency has also said in its reply, we will be "note bene" in parallel with Croatia's accession negotiations between the two countries for a final resolution of the border. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that from the situation we are in, with the reservations that were made in October and December, almost politically and diplomatically, more elegant and successful for us could not be resolved. I think we got rid of it in a successful way.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u12	Do you want to complete the answer? Mr. Victory Elinčič the Noble, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Well, the Drnovšek - Račan agreement was a betrayal of Slovenian interests and fortunately Croatia did not accept it, otherwise we would not be able to sail out of the Bay of Piran today. Contact with the high seas is a flossule that means nothing. The contact can be 1 meter wide, but it does not allow the passage of any ship, just military ships, which Croats do not allow now. I'm asking myself, and I'm also asking you: How strongly did the United States of America pressure you to place military bases against the Russian Federation in Croatian territory over time? How strongly did the European Union countries pressure you to protect and protect the private interests of companies from these countries of the European Union and individual political experts or bribery experts, that is to say politicians from the European Union? And: Did the Vatican also pressure you to establish as strong a defence wall as possible against Orthodoxism? I think that we were not victorious in this and a man would say that in the fight for the chicken we have only collected one pen and, of course, received another card. We can't look forward to that kind of victory. And until we put our demands on historical grounds, no one will appreciate us for so long, and I fear that we are on our way, that Slovenia is slowly disappearing from the European map, that it is slowly becoming the "piion" of the European Union and, I would say, some kind of governorate of neighbouring Zagreb. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u14	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u15	Were the pressures on Slovenia to somehow lift the blockade when it was first pronounced in October? Yeah. The European Commission, in the intergovernmental sphere, has expressed its expectation that the new government will be more flexible. At my first interview with President Barroso, I told him that she would be as flexible as our vital interests would be realized. Since they were not, in December, we, with my responsibility, expressed our reservations and thus prevented the negotiations from continuing. Rehn entered with several proposals, which Croatia rejected in turn. When she refused to continue negotiations on the second proposal, there was no more pressure, ladies and gentlemen. No more pressure. Not Ljubljana, not Zagreb. It could have happened that "ao calenoas graecas" would have been "ao calenoas graecas" which was neither in our interest nor in Croatia. And in July, at the end of July, at my office, I met with one of the world's diplomats and asked her to be an intermediary and witness in these negotiations. Why? Because it had to be achieved that what was agreed will also be realized. And perhaps, without this witness, we would not have achieved that after we were refused in Croatian to agree to return to the Rehn 2 proposal, then there would be no denial from the foreign ministry that we held that we had agreed to return to Rehn 2 and that the Croatian foreign ministry was obliged to explain the truth and this was also explained in writing on Tuesday. At that time, we needed someone who would diplomatically jump both countries into assistance and as a witness. It's both paid off. It took a little more trust, a little more respect, and I think we can be more than happy with what we have achieved. Now, of course, it will depend on this high council or, once we ratify the arbitration agreement, I hope that we will, decide on the referendum or not. I already told you. The government is probably not going to propose a referendum so far, because it might let Croatia or the European Union know that it wants to extend its decision time. But if anyone else proposes this referendum, the government may change their mind and advise me otherwise, but if anyone else decides to do so, it is only for people to decide. If we conclude such an agreement as is now written, we will conclude a good agreement and, for the Slovenian national interests, as far as the border is concerned, very useful. Let the people decide.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Procedural Mr. Victory Jelinčič Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Of course, I am not satisfied with the answer. The fact is that, as we can see from the Prime Minister's response, we have decided to capitulation at the very beginning, which is very bad. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u18	Dear fellow nobleman. I've given you procedurally because you no longer have a chance to ask questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. President. However, I can explain in a procedural manner, even in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Article 246, Mr President. The fact is that the starting points are not prepared, as I see or are based on wrong grounds. There is also no knowledge in the Government that would justify the right starting points. Unfortunately, there is no such knowledge in the National Assembly either, but I hope that colleagues will at least listen to those who know something about history. Our Owl does nothing instead of getting information from Croatia. The worst thing Mr Rupnik does is that they are following me because I am too loud in some matters. Therefore, Mr President, I request that the vote be taken in accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure, second paragraph, to hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government. I hope we find out more then. To explain to us the things that we still see today only in the outline. For these marks may cost Slovenia even more of our own territory than we have already lost it. Two thirds of the Slovenian national territory are in foreign hands. Let's get what we can get. And despite the fact that some ministers are laughing or smiling, it would be good to have a history book in our hands. And not the one they write or fuck in the hands of the FDV, but some serious history book. In there we could see that the truth is something else and that, of course, Mr. President, time is limited and I see [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u20	We'll have to read the second paragraph of Article 246 together.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u21	Yeah, yeah, yeah, Mr. President or you're looking, I still have a minute and four seconds. [[...]] Make sure I make the most of it. In short, why does the Slovenian government not, however, decide to set its own basic starting points on the basis of Slovenian national interests? But no, our government is ready to succumb to US, EU and petty bribery by Croatia. I think that this means a loss, an additional loss of Slovenian national territory, because in the case of such starting points as Mr President of the Government has pointed out today, in this case we will lose not only half of the Bay of Piran, but all the Gulf of Piran. The facts are such and Europe is buying. We're not, we don't know how to shop. It is important to realize that diplomacy is not a great science, but it is roofing: The worse a horse is to sell for as much money as possible and show it as a better stallion. That's wisdom.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u22	Thank you very much. On the proposal by the President of the Government to hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the President of the Government to his parliamentary question, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, on Tuesday, 22 September 2009, in the framework of the votes. The question of the emissary will be posed by a mag. Radovan Žerjav, Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u23	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Honourable President of the Government, Minister and Ministers, colleagues and colleagues! At the beginning of your term of office, Mr President, you have repeatedly announced a new paradigm on which, according to you, a new government policy would stand or fall. I am thinking of the government's human resources policy and allow another personal quote of yours: "I make a promise here to people that I will not replace any man in public office unless there is a reasonable suspicion that he has not done his job well. I will not ask him with a single word which world control or political definition belongs to." Another time. In your opening speech before the election of 7 November last year, you said: "When I am here many times with my fellow ministers, I will not be because I will not trust them, but because I want to see what a different voice is from that of the Government. And whether the opposition's arguments are better than those of the government. And if the opposition has better arguments, I'll take them. As for listening... if you have a wish, I'll come to you, knock on your door, I'll listen to you. I'll try to find what's best than anything we've heard in the debate." Third time. Regarding relations with Croatia, the quote from your speech on 7 November last year: "We will not make any important decisions without prior consultation with the relevant representatives of all parliamentary parties, and in particular not without a thorough consultation of the Government in the competent committee of the National Assembly." Fourth time. It's a promise about Moore. In response to my question on 21 April 2009: "We are also dealing with individual cases. The wall is one of those cases, and I'm going to visit Mura in early May. I'll talk to the board about possible scenarios." I ask you, Mr. President of the Government: Can citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia believe that the words and promises you make as President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will also be fulfilled?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u25	Your Honor. Of course, an honest answer would be to try to fulfill it as much as possible. Not everything as I imagined, as far as I could see, I will try not to disappoint those who were destined for my message. First, about the new paradigm. I think that, on November -- not with us, not abroad -- it was only a month later when the American government decided not to help Lehman Brothers Bank and let it sink, but also started to drop exchange rates around the world and the financial and economic crisis, it didn't know how far and how deep the crisis would go. All they knew was that there was going to be a lot of unexpected things to do. At that time, it was clear to me that we would have to look for new circumstances, and this is this new paradigm, a new balance between solidarity and competitiveness. I think we've held on to solidarity. The question that now arises to me: Will we know with a budget that will soon be on your bench and with measures in the fourth package, if we choose to do so, also open up more opportunities for competitiveness? Without competitiveness there will be no jobs, there will be no basic element of social security. I'm well aware of that, but the government is going to this paradigm. Human resources policy. Not only did the creation of the Human Resources Accreditation Council, which has become a very important institution in human resources, with all the problems, including the mistakes we have made, end up building a new model of human resources policy in Slovenia. For example, the election of the new President of the Management Board of the New Ljubljana Bank. I told the press when I talked to them, "Should the President of the Government know who will be the new president of the New Ljubljana Bank Board?" And I said, "No. Because if the President of the Government knows who will be the new President of the Board, then there is no need for the Kassa and the Supervisory Board." The Kass and the Supervisory Board acted on their conscience and elected a new chairman of the board. It was a public call that was not made a year ago, and the Supervisory Board decided, in its opinion, to set a further example of good practice and call for an interview with people who think they will do their job well. In fact, in this year more or less successfully, I hope, we have closed all the appointments that have been the responsibility and responsibility of the Government. Not without suffering, not without problems, but a new human resources model is being implemented. It's foreign policy. They were consecrations, more than anyone would have expected. As far as the last agreement is concerned, the Foreign Policy Committee was informed even before we met with Prime Minister Kosor. I've also said it very honestly, and I'll say it again, and this time I'd like to call the party presidents on Thursday night. One of them was missing, and I thought that, given that the second day was the Foreign Policy Committee, there might also be criticism from the parliamentary benches that I always refer the party presidents to the Foreign Policy Committee. Don't worry, we will consult, we will consult very much, because much remains to be done until the final settlement of the dispute or the issue with Croatia. As far as solving capable people is concerned. See, today I have asked the Secretary-General, who is on a reasonable leave - I hope that he has a good time - to explain to me the reasons why he convinced me that, for example, Dr Čepar could no longer be Director of the Directorate for Relations with Religious Communities. And I expect his answer. My position was - and I can say this here in front of all the ministers and also in front of you - that Dr. Chapar was doing his job well so that the religious communities were pleased with his work. That is why I have proposed that he remain acting until his appointment is again made. And the Secretary-General will have to explain well why he had arguments in the Government - just for a moment, please - I was, of course, obliged to take one of the arguments into account and this government will provide a thorough explanation of this also to the Assembly and the public. As far as Moore is concerned, today the Minister of Economy has already explained to the public, and you also have this online, what the government's reactions were - and without the government's reactions, we would not be as successful as we are today. I hope that what is happening in Mura today will also be resolved successfully. I'm asking you, sir. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u26	Mr. President, it's time. It'll be an opportunity. Please, mag. Crane, would you like to complete your response? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u27	Thank you very much. As far as the frame-up is concerned. You replaced everything that could be replaced. I wonder who you didn't replace?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u28	Peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u29	That's no problem for me. I have repeatedly said that exchange is normal, natural and logical. But the problem is if you promise people something different. If you promise them you won't change. You know what I'm gonna tell you. All those who have been replaced, so theoretically, practically, and also statistically, it is not possible for all to be villains, all thieves and all depraved and incompetent. It's impossible. That's not possible, Mr. President of the Government! More than that. This new human rights paradigm is my most fear, which is not really new, is a few decades old, that a person should first be disqualified, made a thief, a bastard and then replaced, by destroying him for all his future life, so that by chance he wouldn't return to any important position. And this is not a good trip for the Slovenian state and for Slovenian politics. I wonder who else will be ready to come to the most responsible places in this country when they know that there is no way out of this city as a winner. The coalition did not support any proposal from the opposition. None. Except for those two laws at the beginning. In the Slovenian People's Party, we voted against only seven of the 86 government proposals. I'm not talking about Croatia. As far as Moore's concerned. There's a sad story going on today, unfortunately in Murski Sobota. I regret what's going on. Unfortunately, you who sit there now share the spoils of war. They urge people for 5,000 euros to invest in individual subsidiaries so that they can continue [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u30	Please, Prime Minister Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u31	As it is said, Mr Kuntarič is probably already in Murski Sobota or at least on his way there and will also meet with the unions and the administration. I think I have too little time to explain all the activities that have been done by the government. However, I would like to say, given that the Court is slightly less than 13% owner, not the largest shareholder, but perhaps without his efforts we would not have enough time to find a successful solution for Mura. In May and August, with other weddings, we extend the loan that Mura leased to NLB. In May, the Court withdrew the mortgage on one of the properties that they paid for May. In June 2009, the Court produced the internal price of Moore at 31. 12. for the purpose of recapitalisation. In July, it provides guarantees for the issuance of a bank guarantee to Mura's daughter company and partners. Due to the scope of the project, the Court appoints a special project group dealing with the problem of the resolution of Mura. I'm a part of this group now and then. He's constantly trying to get himself an investor for a long-term solution to Moore's perspective and not least 3. 8. invite the interested professional and investment public to no later than 17. 8. Provides possible proposals for a solution to the Mura problem. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. 9. This was now, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, I think that this is Friday, with a view to retaining as many jobs as possible, but to a real extent, the role of the Assembly is to adopt a decision imposing on the Administration of the Slovenian Indemnity Society that, in the event of the start of the bankruptcy, Mura participates in solving the problem of Mura and immediately supports the maintenance of production to a real extent by issuing guarantees to Mura and its partners. Mr Kuntarič is now in talks to explain what the Government is doing. I also proposed the last time the unions said that they would meet to maybe go to Murska Sobota, and the unions thought it best to meet in Ljubljana and the government would come to Mursko Sobota when we hope, however, we had a more definitive solution. It's not hard for me to meet the unions. Today or tomorrow I will meet with the unions from Vrhnika etc., and we will try to find solutions. As far as human resources policy is concerned. I know that the human source is the greatest wealth we have. If, and as long as the Government is ever or anyone in its name - I know for myself that no - has disqualified someone to achieve his replacement and to prove it, someone must also be responsible. As far as I'm concerned, I think it would be good if, as I say, from the beginning, those who do their job well stayed in this job after the change of power, but at the same time, I have to respect the ministers in their autonomy that [[..]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. Time's up. Thank you very much. The question will be raised by Zvonko Černač on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u33	Dear President of the Government, there will be an opportunity to continue the answer, because I will ask myself, like my colleague, a question about promises or about unfulfilled promises. There is no fear that questions on this subject will run out. Each of us in the National Assembly could ask you a question and the material would still not run out. Today, a year has passed since the national elections, and before and after them we have witnessed your many promises. We have listened to commitments that we need each other, about partnership, about cooperation. We have witnessed your public commitment to a different workforce, that no one will be replaced, especially for political reasons. About you not agreeing to divide into yours and ours. We have heeded the commitment not to bury the dead by voting, we have heard promises to strengthen the supervisory institutions, promises to visit the areas most affected by the crisis. By the way, here in this National Assembly, you made a public promise to visit Mura in May. You have repeatedly ensured that the country will help the economy with concrete measures, especially you, and this has repeatedly highlighted the reduction of payment deadlines to 30 days. The expectations of the public were high. People believed you. After a year, we can see that none of these promises have come true. Slovenia has been accelerating its reputation in the international public for a year. We've landed from the best of our families among the worst. Public debt exceeds a billion euros, debt at the summer of three billion euros. From relatively low unemployment and even a shortage of labour, we approach 100,000 unemployed people, as well as those who do not know what will happen to them tomorrow, you have not kept your word, not enough to visit them, let alone help them. Dear Prime Minister, I therefore ask you about the fulfillment of these promises of yours, why you have not fulfilled your promises or commitments. I'm asking you: Why did you not take advantage of the opposition's willingness to cooperate in the preparation of anti-crisis measures? And: Why have you rejected all our well-intentioned proposals for a way out of the crisis and to accelerate economic growth? You yourself said in the National Assembly that the government was the one to ask the opposition to cooperate. Even if we had not done so, the opposition would have done what it did nine months ago, because your offer was gone, we offered ourselves for cooperation because there were no measures, we proposed them ourselves. So why do you reject all the well-intentioned proposals, Mr. President of the Government? Why did you not invite the opposition to participate in the preparation of these measures? Why have you not fulfilled any of these many promises? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u34	Thank you very much. President of the Government, Mr. Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u35	Your Honor! As far as partnership is concerned. I believed you before when I was in the opposition, so much more now that I have this responsibility to lead the government, because I know it's simply paying off for the country. However, they must be partners for this, and partners should have concerns and differing opinions from mine. When you know, then we reached an agreement in February that was oral, that we would cooperate, that we would be practical, and that we would try together to find the best solutions. Then, as you know, the situation in the National Assembly, when blackmail occurred and everyone thinks he is right, and then there was a breakdown of trust between parliamentary parties that made my wish impossible, I must say this out loud, that we would come to at least an oral agreement on partnership and to the participation of the opposition and the coalition in counter-crisis measures. It should be said that your client has made a condition for us to reach a written agreement, 2+10. My assessment was that if we started talking about a written document, we would talk about it for so long that the crisis would be over and it would be better if we "started" with an oral agreement that was interrupted, strengthened trust and then thought together about concrete measures and structural reforms during these months. Since, last but not least, structural reforms have been the subject of the cooperation of our party, the parties I am also leading today in the previous mandate with the Prime Minister, Mr Janša. As far as the action is concerned. You said unemployment, by the way, a few more 89,000 people are unemployed. And anyone who is unemployed today does not or does not need to hear about statistics that Slovenia is the fourth most successful country in the EU facing the biggest problem right now, the problem of unemployment. Fourth most successful. So if, in my opinion, regulating relations with Croatia is the greatest achievement in foreign policy, from the victory you mentioned this year before, then in internal politics, I think, a successful fight against the problem of unemployment is what this government can praise. Not without a price, of course, you'll say. This unemployment can become a structure of nature. Exactly, therefore, we must now pay attention to measures to increase competitiveness and go into what is most difficult, and these are structural reforms. I will try, together with my colleagues, to find a way to exchange views on these issues: health reform, pension reform, labour market reforms and so on, difficult things, very difficult things. At that time, I also said that I do not accuse the previous government of the crisis we are going into. But what kind of thing you've left in such a nature that it's causing us some problems? But every government, including mine, will leave a problem the next one - so we'll lose the election, won't we? [[Laugh.]] But there will be no misunderstandings [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u36	Peace in the hall, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u37	We must resolve these problems, for example, in the public sector - here is the Minister - I must say that I admire her prudence and perseverance in negotiating with the social partners - to resolve the issue of the burdens associated with the level of public sector wages, which is part of the reform, without offense, in 2008, when someone else was responsible in that country. [[...]] And we need to get through social dialogue to a solution. Social dialogue was my commitment and I insist on it. I still think today whether we will succeed together in this crisis or not. So far, I estimate that people - and this is now a matter that needs to be openly recognised, statistically one more, the other less - have been statistically able to achieve in these nine months that those people who are not responsible for this crisis have largely not borne the burden of this crisis. This, of course, may have reduced the space a little bit when it comes to the issue of competitiveness on the other hand, where we need to do something more than I personally wanted to do if we want to come to the top of the developed world that you have been talking about. But I suppose you'll continue with the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Tinker Bell, supplement your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u39	Dear Prime Minister, I must say that I enjoyed your statement that you would lose the election. I just don't know where to put it, whether it's a promise, a commitment or a promise. [[Laugh.]] Anyway, I have to say that this time your prediction is not far from reality. And perhaps it is one of the few commitments or promises that will come true. So, with regard to these parameters that you've been talking about, I must say that I'm sorry you haven't answered my questions. But you had your chance because you and I were asking a similar question. As far as unemployment is concerned, if good starting points compare, we're still the best, but we were third, but now we're fourth. I don't know if that's really good. I think that's still bad. With regard to all other parameters, if we go to the entire scale of comparability, Slovenia has reached a deep abyss in the last year. And in one debate in the National Assembly, you yourself said that it was a free fall. With an average of more than 3% higher economic growth than the average of the European Union, we have fallen to negative 9%. In short, we're on the tail now, but we were either on the forehead or on the top of the scale. About cooperation with the opposition. Surely this cooperation with the opposition is extremely important, but you yourself have said, if I may quote you, that "it has informed you that we need each other, because Slovenian politics, not the Government, in the time ahead, must play the role of the representative. The government is the one responsible, the government is the one asking the opposition for cooperation and understanding." And despite your public announcement, there was no such move. We ourselves have proposed cooperation for you because we feel responsible for this country, we feel responsible for these citizens and citizens, because we care about what is happening today and what is going to happen tomorrow. According to your prediction, of course, someone will have to take responsibility, and if the starting point is bad, it will be very difficult to manage this country responsibly. For this reason, much more is needed today than ever before, and there can be no narrowly offensive views. So I ask you to tell me: Why didn't you make any of those promises?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u40	Please, Prime Minister, Mr. Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u41	Look, I can be the most responsible person in this hall to run state affairs as long as they are within the authority of the government I run. Why do you think that, for prestigious reasons, given the character you know - it has good and bad points - would let go of a good proposal if I think it helps me solve the problems I'm facing and for which I'm responsible. But if there are fellow workers here with me who I have to trust, and I trust them, and they think that the proposal might increase public debt sooner than reduce it, so that they can come into trouble on the expenditure side with the rights enshrined in the laws and so on, then of course I am obliged to take their opinions into account. What is missing - and I agree with you, if we can make up for it, we will make another attempt - is one more qualitative cooperation, dialogue between the opposition and the coalition on the reforms that await us. The crisis - the end of the recession - was announced by the first man in the United States of America - will also come with delay. Then there's a year-long stagnation. I think that either Trishet or Commission President Barroso, someone mentioned at the last meeting that we are likely to have a 10-year stagnation and that the biggest problem of this stagnation will be unemployment. Oh. K. then let's see what needs to be done in advance in order to structurally solve the problems that we have not been able to solve in previous mandates and are waiting for us. I suggest we try to make this effort perhaps after the first year when we have good and bad experiences with each other. And last but not least, you know; I mean, I don't have the data on me, if I put it wrong, so I apologize; at the annual level, economic growth was 2.8% in the last quarter of last year. It wasn't 7.8%. I know that we have recorded high economic growth in the previous term, and all economists predict that no country, not just Slovenia, will record such high economic growth in the next ten years. That's perfectly clear to me. And it is true, it has fallen slightly more with us than in some other countries, but Slovenia is a small and open economy. And we do not have enough domestic finished products to compete abroad. Export demand dropped. We depend on you to make things right in other countries. We could do better or better, not say no. I'm not saying no. I just think that, with the 60s or more measures, this government has done everything it knows and has managed at this time to ensure that Slovenia can hope that it will get out of the recession as a winner. I know you're not happy with the answer. As far as the election is concerned, people will decide who they will continue to trust.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mr. Zvonko Blackach. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u43	Thank you very much. I see that the honourable Mr President of the Government wants these issues to be discussed in the National Assembly. I must also say that in the answer, neither in the first part nor in the second part, he did not talk about why the promises made in the National Assembly and elsewhere were not fulfilled. Therefore, on the basis of Rule 246(2) of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that a general debate be held in this National Assembly on these "insponsibilities", on the replies of the President of the Government. I took a little look at all those statements back there. I don't mind, one of the things that must have come true is that the Prime Minister will be paying for his own coffee. This promise has come true, and all the rest are essential, but not. When we talk about where we are and where we were a year ago - don't forget, you talked about it yourself - last December the European Commissioner in Slovenia announced, December of last month, 0.6% of positive economic growth. Of course, this statement and this forecast were based on the timely adoption of appropriate measures. They were on the table, you had them on the table, left by your previous government. You summed up about half and thus assured, thank God, the stability of the banking system, the other half you've postponed and now the minister in your government, the president of the "real" party [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u44	Dear colleague Chernač [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u45	public [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u46	You have already made a procedural proposal. [[...]] You're polarizing. The President of the government can't, no one can't mess with you anymore. I'm asking you to stick to the rules and not go into trouble and make your point.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u47	That's exactly what I'm doing. If you'll excuse me, I'll finish. Why is it necessary to discuss these issues? Even the minister himself said that the business guarantee scheme was not effective, that it did not. Something similar will happen with a guarantee scheme for natural persons. It'll be even bigger here, according to our estimate. The opposition also wants the measures to be taken to act. Of course, we do not have this power to vote on the ruling coalition in this National Assembly. This is why we propose that at least these matters be discussed, especially since you were last year, 26. 9. The President-in-Office said that some important structural reforms were needed and that, if such a uniform opinion was also the opinion of the professional public and the responsible part of the policy, they would be unpopular, then they would commit such a measure to non-trust. We have witnessed many predictions of structural reforms, but we have not experienced these trials either. Let us use at least the debate on the Government's response to this issue in the National Assembly, which is why I invite you to support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u48	Thank you very much. The question to the Prime Minister of the Government will be presented by Anton Anderlič, the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u49	All gathered, distinguished Mr. President of the Government! Security is one of the most valued values for which citizens and citizens are willing to pay a lot, of course if they know why. We imagined that the easiest way to ensure this security and defence was within the collective security system or the NATO liaison system. The fact is that at that time we also committed ourselves to the password, that Member States must maintain individual defence and security as well as common security. During this time, we have adopted a series of documents, since the resolution of the medium-term programme, the equipment of the basic development programmes and so on. There have been many problems, some purchases have been irrational, pointless. The concept was achieved with greater or smaller dynamics, some of the objectives we have not achieved due to the objective circumstances that have arisen, especially the structure in the Slovenian Army, employment and so on. The fact is that there are questions in the public about some of the reckless, reckless participation of Slovenian soldiers and others in some of the crisis areas. Discussions in all national parliaments in Europe and beyond on how, how to ensure this security, how much money and what kind of victims are on the agenda. That's why I'm asking you: How are you in the time before the conclusion of this cycle, the conclusion of professionalisation, the conclusion of the first part of the resolution that is to be completed next year, how are you satisfied with the success of this project?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister, Mr. Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u51	First of all, most of the colleagues and colleagues will remember the lively concerns and doubts that were in Slovenia and also in the political public when the idea of the professional Slovenian Army came up. These concerns are overcome by the experiences and results we have today. Slovenia has a professional army, I think we have made a good decision and that the professionalization project is relatively successful, with some problems that you, as chairman of the committee in the previous term, I think you are better acquainted with than I am. We will adopt two new documents in the National Assembly, which will be decided by the National Assembly. This will be the Resolution on the Strategy for National Security and the Resolution on the overall long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces. I think that another resolution is needed, perhaps later the Minister will complement me, and this is a mission decision. You mentioned Afghanistan. Afghanistan is not a military man. And the decision of those who have made a decision, but we are part of the alliance to try to regulate this country militarily, may have been pressed for good purposes, but it is manifest today, in my opinion, as a wrong decision. Afghanistan, too, so we don't talk about Iraq. But we have accepted them and we are part of this alliance. And you can see, even in the United States, that I am not talking about European partners, there is a debate about the so-called transition period over the next two years, when we are actually trying to replace military presence with civilian presence and somehow extract NATO and other countries involved in the operations, including ours, from this conflict zone. On Friday, I was visiting the Italian Prime Minister and on behalf of the Slovenian Government and on behalf of Slovenian citizens and citizens, expressing my condolences to the Italian people for the loss of six soldiers who fell in Afghanistan. It's up to us now. I don't know, Minister, can I talk about it or not? If you don't think so, stop me, we are now deciding whether Slovenia will take on one of the more responsible tasks in a slightly more dangerous area. I think this is a very sensitive issue, and last time I closed the debate on the National Security Council, because I thought we had too little argument for such an important decision. The National Assembly will be involved in this decision. Of course, we are part of the alliance, we must be responsible. We would also like to be responsible for taking this decision to put an end to military operations and to start civilian operations and to succeed in achieving the objectives set by the Alliance in Afghanistan, so that the victims, such as the soldiers of the Member States participating in this operation, will not fall. All this will be decided here, in the National Assembly. I have spoken out loud and frankly all that I think I can say as Prime Minister to this high assembly, which, last but not least, decides on the fundamental orientations of foreign and security policy.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please, Mr. Anton Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u53	Just what would make sense at the end of this question is the question of two chapters or two problems. One is the so-called production, transport and sale of drugs. We all know that 90% of all drugs are in European and wider markets in Afghanistan. When reading the newspaper on July 7th, in Slovenia, they found that - during the campaign of hunting those who deal with illicit drugs and crucify them - as in Europe, practically its origin in Afghanistan. So, the problem of drugs is European, it is a global problem, and in this regard it is also necessary to say a word in Slovenia. And the other, of course, is the victims. In July and August, there were the most victims in eight years since the operation was there. It was also in Iraq. In the end, after five, six years, there were the most victims throughout the period. July, August, and if we add September, which is the bloodiest in eight years. I therefore ask, in all these debates, which are in other parliaments: Will you support the proposal of Germany, France and the United Kingdom on an international conference on Afghanistan to prepare a departure? And secondly, what will be your message if this happens?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister, Mr. Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u55	In fact, I have already indicated the answer: we will support the conference and propose a second strategy for Afghanistan because it obviously did not work.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Please, procedurally, Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u57	In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I will not propose a debate on this issue in this manner. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u58	Then you broke it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u59	Allow me to say - because I think this is a contribution to such pointless proposals. [[...]] I propose, Mr President, that together [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u60	You still have a procedure, don't you?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u61	- procedurally - to immediately declare victory with the allies in Afghanistan and move away from there, because we did it in Iraq and elsewhere, and then the process began [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u62	Mr. Anderlich, you're abusing the procedural question. You yourself have limited yourself to not going after the second paragraph of Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure. You wanted procedural, so you abused it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u63	That's not true, Mr. President, I didn't abuse him, but I did. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u64	Mr. Anderlich, please stop because you've misused the procedural question. This is a suggestion that could be made when complementary to the answer, without adding, but not after the answer, when you have only a procedural proposal. Thank you very much. We are moving on to the answers to the parliamentary questions raised at the 6th, 7th and 8th meetings of the Assembly. The Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr. Milan Pogačnik, will first answer the question of the Council of Likar concerning the return of bullmastif dogs.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Just one question; I don't know if I can. [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u66	Peace in the hall, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u67	One question is because the question that follows relates to the same problem with a slightly different address. I ask whether it is possible to answer both questions at once, or whether I have to answer them individually.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u68	Please, peace in the hall. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u69	I ask; I ask, do I have to ask each question individually? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u70	And me, that's you. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u71	answer because you're two [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u72	I'm sorry. I'm sorry. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u73	Very similar questions. [[...]] But [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u74	Look, Mr. Minister. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u75	Can I answer that? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u76	You have two questions. Each of these questions is followed by the possibility of asking a supplementary question, so you must formally answer it separately. It is clear, however, that your answer to the first and second questions will likely be very similar. I think you can shorten one or the other if you repeat yourself. Please. Formally, however, there are two questions and two follow-up answers if this happens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u77	Thank you very much. First of all, I am answering the oral question of Mr Council of Likar concerning the return of two bullmastiff dogs. With regard to the question of the return of the two Bulmastifs, which caused the attack on man in 2006, I believe that such events should not occur at all, because our legislation imposes a great deal of responsibility on dog owners. Each owner is responsible for the conduct of his dog and is also responsible for the damage caused by the animal. Still, it's not like that. In 2008, there were 2,140 dog bites, of which 330 were listed as dangerous dogs. Well, accidents happen, unfortunately this one was much more serious, much more tragic. I also note that the letter stated that I had signed the decision. The decision was issued by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food and signed by the Head of the Legal Affairs Service, who has the power to decide matters at other levels, but certainly the Minister must not and cannot interfere with the professional decisions of the persons conducting the procedure and deciding in administrative proceedings. And the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food followed, under certain conditions of course, the law governing the judgment of the Administrative Court of 10. 3. 2008 and the opinion of the expert committee. The Ministry of Agriculture confirmed for the first time, and that was 18. 2. 2008, the decision of the Veterinary Administration to execute the dog, but the Administrative Court, by that judgment, found that the decision of the Veterinary Authority on execution was illegal because the Veterinary Administration had applied the law retroactively. It should also be said that the event took place in 2006 and that the amendment of the law took place in March 2007. The Court of Justice has ordered the Veterinary Administration to determine, in the retrial procedure, whether the danger posed by dogs to the environment can be prevented from being prevented by execution. Since the official veterinarian acting in this procedure failed to take into account the advice of the Administrative Court in two re-decisions, the Ministry, as a second-degree body, had to decide on this. The Ministry was asked to assess whether the animals could be returned to the owner under certain conditions. The Ministry based its decision on the return of dogs on the law and on the opinion of the expert commission and followed fully the guidance of the court given in that judgment. Then the question regarding the personal award of the decision to the owner is further raised. Decision of 22. 6. 2009 on the return of dogs was served to the dog owner 23. 6. 2009 As the decision became enforceable by the notification, the owner immediately took the dog out of the shelter. He could have taken over right away. The decision was handed over personally to the owner by the signature of the fever, in accordance with Article 257 of the General Administrative Procedure Act. It shall decide that the authority of the second stage shall be able to notify the decision itself to the parties or send its decision together with the documents of the first stage case which must be served by the decision to the party. This means that the second-degree authority can make its own decision, as it does not. [[....]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, time has run out, and later you will be able to answer in addition. Mr. Likar, would you like to complete the answer? Please. I'm asking for a little concentration in the hall. It was embarrassing, and I think there was too much noise. Please calm down and listen to the answers. Mr. Lycar.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u79	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I thank the Minister for his answer. However, I would like to ask you a further question: Why such an urgency in the service of the decision, since, as you yourself said, the decision was handed down to the party personally, although the decision shows that this is the task of the Ljubljana Regional Office of the Veterinary Administration. You served this decision to the owner on the same day. The owner took those dogs home the same day. According to the information, the composition of the Commission was also contested, which was supposed to decide which was to be professional and independent. She was probably in only so much professionally because she was made up of experts in the cinematic field. I find the independence of this commission more controversial. It follows from the decision on the appointment of a commission issued by your Ministry that the party to the procedure, the administrative authority, has been informed of the appointment of the commission and its tasks and that the appointment of members has been partially followed by its proposal. This means that the party has proposed at least one in the proceedings, if not two members of the Commission. I also ask you: Is it true that one of these members was you, Mr. Minister, also a married witness? For if this is true, then this is another reason more to seriously doubt the independence of the commission, which decided that these two very dangerous bullmastiff dogs would be returned to the owner.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u80	Thank you very much. If you'll excuse me, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u81	Thank you very much. I'd answer that first. I was no one's wife's witness to these three members of the commission. The Commission was hereby appointed Head of Legal Affairs at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. He appointed a three-member group of experts. We could name one, two or three. Two were experts in cinema and animal breeding, and one was an expert in animal health. These two members, an expert in kinology, were selected from a list of experts at the Kinological Association and the veterinarian was proposed by the Veterinary Chamber of Slovenia. However, the procedure is such that it is always familiar with the composition of the Commission and the party if it has any objection. Thus, the Commission was independently appointed and had a difficult task with a number of content: whether animals are peaceful; whose situation excites when it becomes offensive; obedience to the guardian of the ect. In short, a lot of assignments. On this basis, the Commission has also issued separate opinions: the veterinarian has issued an opinion on animal health, as the medical condition may also lead to aggression, and two kinological experts have issued an expert report on the work done and have found that the dogs are patient among themselves, that they are typically behaved to be remiss and so on. All these documents, if you wish, honourable Member, I will also give you a look. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Rado Likar, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u83	In my view, this issue is so extensive and sensitive that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that this issue be referred to as the return of dangerous dogs, and that a broader debate be held at the next meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u84	Thank you very much. On the proposal by the Member of the Council of Likar to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Agriculture to his question of the matter of the matter, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, on Tuesday, 22 September 2009, in the framework of the votes. Mr Minister of Agriculture Dr Milan Pogačnik will answer Janez Ribič's question regarding the protection of citizens from attacks by dangerous dogs. In this context, the circumstances and things you have already said may not make sense to repeat. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u85	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Your Honor! We had more communication and more correspondence, including public. For your interest in this truly tragic case, I thank you. I think it's right to draw attention to all the content that is worth considering. We've also given you the complete file for observation, just as you wanted. I would like to stress in particular the following: that the Ministry of Agriculture has fully followed the laws prescribed by Slovenian legislation in such procedures. Therefore, in the light of Article 73 of the Law on Administrative Disputes against the Judgment of the Administrative Court, which you point out did not appeal, since no appeal under this Article is permitted. In its decision, the Ministry was obliged to follow the instructions of the Administrative Court in the judgment cited in paragraph 10. 3. 2008, in which the court decided that the administrative authority would have to determine in the re-decision - if it considers that dogs should be killed - in addition to dangerous animals, it will also be necessary to establish that the risks to the environment cannot be prevented otherwise. I must point out that the execution of a dog after the letter of the law, then valid, by 2007, is possible only if the dog is dangerous to the environment and if it causes significant damage, but there is no other way to prevent it. Therefore, both conditions must be met. Following the procedure, that is to say, in the light of the guidance of the Administrative Court, we have followed Article 189 of the Administrative Procedure Act, which provides if, for the determination or assessment of a fact which is important for the resolution of the matter, there is a need for expertise with which an official in charge of the procedure does not have the power to produce evidence with experts. As an expert, an individual or a commission or an expert organisation may be involved. In such a case, Article 190 of the ZUP provides that the performance of the evidence with experts shall be determined by an official who conducts the procedure on the basis of an official duty on a proposal from a party, by one expert, if he considers that the evidence with the experts will be complicated, and by two or more. And that's what the Ministry of Agriculture did. I've already told you how we've chosen experts and so on. Please also note that these bolmastiphs are dangerous animals. Yes, the 1999 law, which was in force until March 2007, also states that dangerous animals exist, especially those that endanger human life. After March 2007, on the basis of the law adopted in this House, of course, if an animal endangers the life of a man, it will die. That's an essential difference. However, the law cannot be applied retroactively in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution. So, also, animals are subject to laws in our country that need to be respected, this is the Animal Protection Act, this is the Veterinary Compliance Criteria Act, this is the Administrative Procedure Act, this is the Administrative Dispute Act. And the Veteran Compliance Criteria Act, for example, states that it is permitted - this law was passed in 2005, to be understood - that it is allowed to have five animals in the apartment, but there is nothing written about whether it is five small animals, five poodles or five bullmastiffs or five dogs. And I was also warned about this, which is why I ordered the colleagues at the Veterinary Board to look into the matter and to make appropriate proposals accordingly to determine how many large animals that are difficult to control can be found in one particular apartment. As there were also doubts as to the correctness of the procedure at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, as well as some doubt as to the professionality of my fellow workers, I asked the Ministry of Public Administration for an official administrative, inspection, which will be carried out, which will determine whether any error in the procedure has been made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete your answer, Mr. Ribič? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u87	Thank you. Dear Mr. Secretary, distinguished present, well-known! Of course, that's the answer I'd like if you could give it to me. Most of what you said is probably true, but something certainly isn't. The expert commission appointed by the Ministry, despite your assurances, was by no means independent. In your explanation for the decision on appointment at the Ministry, you say that when appointing members, he partially followed the party's proposal in the procedure - Baričevič Saša. What does that mean in part? Two out of three or what? How can you claim that such a commission is independent if it is made up of one party's proposal? Why not the other party? We're disappointed in the legal process. The debate on these issues was the second objective of my parliamentary question, not the killing of two puppies, as we would like to show. Why man creates new breeds is a question. A country that wants to do well to citizens who have become aware of the importance of human and nature co-existence must, at this level, act with the power of the educational process, by strengthening ethics and also by amending legislation. So dangerous dogs weighing 70 to 80 kilograms are, without a clue, some kind of weapon in the hands of the owner and can permanently and severely harm or even kill a man. And the question is, why do you have five so dangerous dogs in your house? Someone must be responsible. That is why I would like to discuss this subject at the next meeting of the National Assembly under Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure, so I will also pursue my activities, with a focus on human security in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Wait, you've now set up a follow-up to the answer - that's okay, and then you've already said you want this debate. Okay. After the answer, I will also read the proposal for a decision. Thank you. Please. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u89	As I have already said, in accordance with the administrative procedure, the expert committee was appointed by the Legal Service of the Ministry of Agriculture from the list, which is public, and also on the proposal of the Veterinary Chamber. I'm not doing this again. Of course, such a proposal must also be brought to the attention of a party that can, after all, express itself. This is a procedure that lawyers know better. On this point, I was convinced that the law was perfectly all right. As for the fact that you can have five large animals in your apartment, I completely agree with you. That is why I also ordered my colleagues, the Veterinary Authority, to study and prepare other proposals. Who's responsible for this? Probably a parliament that passed such a law in May 2005, which allowed five large animals to be allowed in an apartment. Of course, someone had to suggest it, and I agree with that. I certainly wasn't the one. This is the legal option that is enshrined in the Veterinary Compliance Criteria Act. And once again, I repeat, there are more of these bites. We have 330 animals on the list of dangerous dogs. All these animals live under special conditions. At least what it is, they must be tied up in public - because they must all be one way or another - and they must have a clue. But if we're talking about dangerous breeds, I'd be more careful here. As I said, in 2008/2009 the status of a dangerous dog was given 155 blends, including small ones, to understand each other, the German Shepherds 57 and then followed by golden bearers and Sharplanites. This is said to be difficult to say that there is also some highly dangerous breed among these, which is mentioned in some ways, especially where animals are allowed or organized to fight, such as pit bulls and the like. So, I would say that there are no dangerous dogs, especially dangerous owners and irresponsible owners, and things need to be sanctioned here. Look, despite all the rules we have on the road, there are still a lot of traffic accidents. And I say that the conditions and responsibility of animal owners must be sharpened and properly taught. I also discussed this with my colleagues in the Kinology Association, who support some of the proposals we are preparing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u90	Thank you very much. The Minister has submitted a supplementary reply. Member of Parliament, do you still insist on applying the second paragraph of Article 246? You want to discuss the Minister's response? Good. On the proposal by Member Janez Ribič to hold a debate at the next meeting on the Minister's response to his question, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, Tuesday, 22 September 2009, in the framework of the vote. The Minister of Economy, Dr. Matej Lahovnik, will answer Sam Bevk's question about the difficult financial situation in which the Idri mine was located and the drafting of a new law on the prevention of the consequences of mining in the Idri mercury mine. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Honourable Members or Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament. Mr Bevk, Member of the National Assembly, asked a written question concerning the short-term recovery of the difficult financial situation of the mercury mine and the long-term recovery of the consequences of the 500-year mining in Idrija. It should be said that, in line with the plan of the Idria mercury mine adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on 9 April this year, a total of EUR 568 000 should be provided in the year, of course. An amount of EUR 52 000 304 is provided in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia on the basis of contracts already concluded between the mercury mine and the Ministry of Economy. EUR 516 thousand 627 must be provided by the company itself by the sale of surplus assets; therefore, around 25%, it must provide the quarter itself with the sale of surplus assets it has at its disposal. This company still hasn't done it. In order to remedy the difficult financial situation in the short term, the company’s management must therefore make maximum efforts and sell surplus assets as soon as possible and thus provide the necessary funds. The Act on the Prevention of the Effects of Mining in the Mine of Mercury Idrija was adopted precisely to remedy the consequences of 500-year mining in Idrija in the long term. Under this law, a long-term programme was adopted to prevent the consequences of mining in the mercury mine, which envisaged that all works would be completed by the end of 2007. Although most of the planned works have been completed, the injection of trenches in the upper floors is not finished, which is expected to be completed by the end of this year. This will end the recovery. Once again, we are practically two years behind schedule. The adopted programme for the maintenance of the indemnified part of the cave and monitoring after the completion of the closures in the Idrija Living Silver Mine will ensure the continued maintenance of the indemnified part of the cave and, of course, monitoring for this period. For all these reasons, we estimate that the adoption of the amendment is not necessary. I would like to stress once again only the crucial fact that almost three quarters of the funds are provided by the Ministry of Economy from the budget on the basis of contracts already concluded between the mine and the Ministry of Mine Recovery or the consequences of mining. A quarter must absolutely ensure management by reselling an excess of assets, for which it has all the possibilities, but of course it must be fully engaged. However, I have already been explicitly warned in the preparation of the budget by the Ministry of Finance that, in view of the budgetary situation, it is virtually impossible to provide additional funds for this purpose for the closure of mines, because, as my reply already shows, we have been practically 2 years across the edge and these closing works should also be accelerated and the environment should be adequately repaired. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u92	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to complete your answer. Please, Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u93	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Thank you, too, for your reply to the Minister. The fact is, the most attractive real estate is the home of miners in Ankaran. Mines couldn't be sold because the price was too high. It's low, but it can't go below price, because it would be a sale of state property. That is why this issue remains open, as there are too many funds. This house is too valuable to be sold at as low a price as the buyers could buy. However, the country cannot lower the price in this way, because, as I said, there would be a sale of state property at one of the most attractive locations on the Slovenian sea. Therefore, this issue will remain open and the loss will have to be remedied in one way or another. For with some other sales, this mining debt has already been partially reduced. But the problems of Idria and the Silver Mine, I don't mean the closed part of the cave, you can't just get rid of it. For even after the physical closure of the cave, it will be necessary to maintain the watery part of the mine, to monitor, maintain the technical and cultural heritage that will come to UNESCO's World Heritage List next year. In Idria, we have prepared development programmes based on a closed mine, including in line with the European Union Strategy for Mercury. After all, the previous government also established a mercury information and research centre in 2008 [[End warning sign]] which has great potential for further development. The experts of the Idrija mine also participate in the closure of other European mines, such as in France or just those days when they are in Kyrgyzstan. So, [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, is there anything else you'd like to add? [[No, no, ……]] Since the Minister for Foreign Affairs Samuel Žbogar is absent, he will answer the questions put to him at the previous meetings by Milenk Ziherl, Mira Petk, France Keka and Rudolf Petan, which he has been asked at the next meeting, of course also to the questions to be asked today. We are moving on to questions of Members and Members. Rudolf Petan will ask the question of the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Dr Ivan Svetlik.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u95	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Ministers and Minister! Information has been leaking from government circles - this is what I purposely call - regarding pensions. First, it was said that pensions would be reduced because the burden of the state treasury was too high, then they would be frozen. Well, later there was also a possibility that some would be frozen, some would be reduced, but the lowest ones would not decrease. In view of the experience we have with such information coming from the government, we could also say that the government has been able to probe the terrain of the reaction on the ground, and this would not be unusual either. However, since it is a matter governed by law, namely, the harmonisation of pensions is governed by law and is clearly recorded when they are coordinated and how they are aligned with the growth of wages, then it is so that the Government cannot either decide or change these matters otherwise, unless it goes according to the procedure as it should be; and that is, only on the basis of the statutory salary. On the other hand, it is a matter of such nature that the pension is earned by working age. It's not something someone just gets. It's not something the government just said, but it's earned. Each individual earned his pension with his past work and, of course, there is solidarity here. I therefore ask the Government: Has the Government held any debate, any coordination with the social partners? In fact, we also coordinate with the social partners for, I will say, less important things, because more important than pensions, I don't know things in the country, because more than half a million pensioners receive pensions. This is said to be a broad debate that the social partners should also give their views, whether they are in line with the Government's expectations or not. So I ask the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs, who is the mother of these matters - of course, who can say that the Minister of Finance is the one, but he is not - so I ask precisely this Minister: Have and what consultations and coordination have been carried out with the social partners? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u96	Thank you. Please, Minister, Dr. Ivan Svetlik.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u97	Dear Mr President, honourable Member! The information you provide is related to the preparation of budgets for the next two years. Of course, there are different options for how to close this budget, and one of the proposals put on the table is the proposal for temporary maintenance of pensions at the current level. While this proposal has not yet been harmonised, as we know, the budget has not yet received a sign of the proposal, and coordination and discussions are also taking place with pensioners and we still have coalition coordination on this issue today. As regards the pension system itself, which clearly regulates this as a matter, let me say that we have created the starting points for its modernisation, which we will present to the public and partners this week, so that they will be accessible to all. In doing so, I would like to point out that pensions are a right, as stated by you, arising from compulsory pension insurance and based on a satisfactory system. This means, however, that pensions are currently being paid, just as payments are currently being made by the debtors for this pension fund. It is true, however, that when this flow of funds and the outflow of funds is not harmonised - and now they are not, even less in the crisis period than they were before - this difference from the budget must be covered by the state. In the context of the discussion on the non-implementation of this reconciliation of pensions, account should be taken of the fact that the crisis has led to a reduction in the amount of contributions paid, which has also reduced the amount of these funds. However, when we are discussing the non-conformity of pensions, this must be taken into account in particular - and this is also an open question for the future when it comes to a systemic solution - whether we have the appropriate formula for coordinating pensions. Pensions are aligned according to the applicable rules with the growth of the average wage, as we know. The fact that pensions are aligned with wage increases has its logic, of course, justified by the fact that pensions are a right arising from social insurance, and their level depends to a good extent on these contributions, depending on the individual's contribution. There's some kind of wage continuation. However, what I think is important is to stress that, in the framework of the current way of coordination of pensions, it is important to note that the growth of average wages is not entirely dependent on the growth of the mass of funds for these salaries. The average wage also depends on the number of payers, the number of payers. The increase in unemployment that we witness is reducing the number of payees, in most cases those with under-average wages. This means that average wages can increase even if the wages in the private and public sectors are reduced. For example, I should point out that the estimate that the average gross wage for this year's crisis year will be at 2.9% and the wage growth at 0.4%. This is, of course, a significant difference, which then also creates, if we follow the existing formula, an increasing deficit in the pension and, consequently, in the state treasury.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Petan. Do you want to complete the answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u99	Thank you for your word. If I understand correctly, and this is my additional question, during this answer I thought you were also preparing a change of law. I also formally ask: Are you preparing an amendment to this law that speaks about the coordination of pensions? Next: the fact is - this is what we both mentioned - that it is about rights. Retirement is a legitimate right in the system of solidarity. The fact is, however, that this information has been leaked in connection with the preparation of the budget. Then this matter is not entirely of a systemic nature. This is what we run into when the budget is being prepared. The system itself, after all, does not necessarily have to be wrong in any way. In fact, it's mass and this mass is distributed. Now it doesn't matter what formula we have: there can be a slightly higher percentage in one formula, in the second lower one, I'm just saying cashierly that that final amount is the same as it is. I'd have another question. Does this also mean that, due to the preparation of the budget, you will also systematically amend this law so that the calculation of pensions will also have a different system to be based on a different system? This means - and this is also the question: Will it then be just a temporary solution? I don't know, I hope this happens in your government before the crisis passes, at this time, or then someone else will deal with it when they have to systematically change the law. So the questions are: Are you preparing changes to the law? And: Will this be systematic because of the preparation of the bill? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u101	Thank you very much. So if there is an agreement that we are discussing not to revalue pensions, as provided for by law, then of course we would need an intervention law or a law on the implementation of a budget that should change this regime for a certain period of time. That's the answer to that question. It is clear that only by law can this rebalancing be changed. However, as regards the systemic changes envisaged, one of the open issues is the issue of reconciliation of pensions, in the long term, systemic. It is said whether to maintain a valid form, as we call it, or to change this formula accordingly. Many of the countries we are observing have very different systems, and we can also find different solutions to this. We have prepared a starting point for this debate, not concrete proposals. So we are waiting for the relevant social partners, the parties and so on to respond to proposals that will go into circulation.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Procedurally, please, Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u103	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Therefore, in view of the reply given by the Minister, I believe it is entirely justified that, on the basis of Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure, I request or propose a debate on this matter. By the time this debate is held, it is likely that the coordination that the Government is currently carrying out will be carried out so that the proposal is prepared. And there is probably no better place than Parliament to present this proposal to us Members first and to Members, including those who do not receive this informational consultation and information to do so in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u104	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Member Rudolph Petan to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs to his question of the Member of Parliament, the State Assembly will decide tomorrow, on Tuesday, 22 September 2009, in the framework of the votes. Lucky Friend will ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Minister for Foreign Affairs is absent. Would you like to ask the Member a question anyway? Can I help you? Yeah. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u105	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I hope that, given the Minister's employment this year, we will have an answer to this question that I intend to raise. The time of recession does not allow the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to treat public finances irresponsibly, and today is not suitable for waste, so I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: How many buildings or business premises have been rented by the Republic of Slovenia for the purposes of diplomatic and consular representations of the Republic of Slovenia abroad? Ter: How much of the budget funding do we spend annually on these leases? This is a very clear assumption that there is an abuse of the situation from personal benefit, since the rents are much too high and the minister is obliged at least to check the use of these funds at some point, and this has not yet happened. I request an oral response: How much money in total are we making from the budget for these needs and how much is it for housing, residences and other areas for diplomatic needs abroad? And: Why is it simply not bought? Because according to our calculations, the burdens on the Slovenian budget would be much lower if we paid rents for rents, rather than paying astronomical rents, which many times from the owner who gives space to rent, are returned to private pockets. Last but not least, I ask the minister about this: What would he do if he found out about the irregularities? We have repeatedly addressed this issue to the Government in the Group of Members. The first question was addressed on 26 August 2005, second, in May 2008. So far, all governments have come up with a concrete answer to this question. However, it is a very heavy budget burden, and it is indeed unwise for the two-million-dollar nation to rent such expensive premises, to pay such funds from the budget, without thinking that it would be more rational to buy these spaces and, of course, to acquire them permanently. If we receive a flat-rate reply from the Minister, we will also ask if, with a special commission, it is necessary to check the appropriateness; to use these funds and the responsibility of individuals for whom we will find that they have violated the powers and also to damage the budget of the Republic of Slovenia on this account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Minister Samuel Žbogar will answer this question as a second answer at the next meeting, at least as promised in writing. The Minister for Education and Sport will ask Mr Guido Kres a question. Please. During this time we will try to get the Minister for Education and Sport [[whether he apologized or not apologized]] .
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u107	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. With the start of the new school year, we have again seen a lot of confusion in equipping children with learning materials. Each primary school, through its professional council, selects textbooks and work volumes from a very wide list for the next school year. In spite of the same curriculum, elementary school students learn from various textbooks and work volumes. I am aware that the liberalisation of the learning aid market and the recognition of the market economy were urgently needed. However, I wonder whether matters in this area have moved to other extremes, which are no longer optimal for a small, open economy such as Slovenia. The professional commission of the Ministry of Education and Sport certifies each year over 400 textbook titles and work volumes for primary schools: Can you really say that this expert commission can properly check all these 400 addresses? In our view, this is not feasible and therefore actually suffers from the quality of teaching materials. I ask you, Mr Minister: Is such a wide range of titles really needed? And: Couldn’t we achieve some unification in this area? In view of the specificity of the Slovenian space, if there were any unification, public tenders could achieve greater burdens and lower prices, as well as the principles of the market economy. Otherwise, I support freedom of choice, but not to the extent that it does not allow optimal prices, but even increases them because of the low supply. In doing so, I would point out that more publishers have taken place in the wake of the greater liberalisation of the market, and that there is still a lack of control in the interest of the disorder in this area. Some textbooks and work volumes shall also be withdrawn after only two or three years. First of all, this is very damaging to the textbook funds, which thus do not recover the cartridge. Today's deposits are indirectly paid from the state budget, and the state is thus injuring itself. And yet we must be aware that the teaching funds are one of the most important social measures to ensure free education. In addition, frequent changes in materials put a great deal of pressure on teachers, i.e. every textbook and workbook requires a certain method of learning, and in such rapid changes, appropriate adaptation and optimisation of the lecture of the curriculum is almost impossible. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Please, Minister of Education and Sport Dr. Igor Lukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u109	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! This question could not have been more ordered to me than it is. The thing that was set in motion here is really getting on my nerves like my father. This is not just the story that the Member of Parliament has been talking about. This is not the case, for example, when a teacher is replaced in the middle of the year and a new textbook is to be bought because a new teacher requires a new textbook. For my four children, I had to buy five textbooks for the first grade of elementary school because we moved in and there was a half-year shift. In short, the matter is not really settled, as I know from my own experience. And now I've been digging into these things for two months, how the decision-making process is going. I'm starting to get a picture. Therefore, the information you provide is valid for 2006 when there were major changes due to the introduction of a nine-year-old and then so many textbooks had to be reviewed at once. Now these matters are to a lesser extent and, as far as possible, we will monitor the matter. So I agree with the point here to reduce the number of textbooks per class to rationalise the whole area. Here is also our reflection, which goes in this direction, so that with the greater affirmation of electronic textbooks, which we already have a lot of done, for some of the items that we do not yet have, we will now go into a call to reduce this paperwork. So we're working on it, but the point is, it's a fitting one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Franci Kek will ask the Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology Mr Gregor Golobic a question. Please, Mr. Kek.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u111	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr. Secretary! Some inventor often encounters a problem when his knowledge of the registration of his patent is insufficient and there is a huge financial supply ahead of him to patent it. Are there, perhaps at your ministry, any forms of assistance for this purpose?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u112	Thank you very much. May I have your answer, Minister Gregor Golobič?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u113	Thank you so much for asking. The issue of supporting the innovation activities of individuals, businesses, institutions received considerable attention in this mandate. A consultation was also organised with the innovators, led by the President of the Government. But we, as the department responsible for this year, have managed to start creating an appropriate support environment with a call for proposals. Indeed, this year we are funding for the first time 18 consortia involving 86 organisations through a call for proposals, and the purpose of this year is to support and establish a national innovation system. These consortia - because we finance consortia, we cannot afford individual applicants or interested recipients of this patent activity support - but according to the terms of the invitation to tender, they can also cover the costs of patent protection to their members, individuals or organisations outside the consortium if they assess that a positive financial impact can be expected from costs or from costs to patent costs, it is said that this patenting cost, which is often significant, will be reimbursed. Also in other calls at our ministry, such as R & D projects in small, medium-sized enterprises or Euerka international research projects, we finance industrial property protection costs within them. In short, supporting innovatively active companies in this regard and strengthening their awareness of the importance of industrial property growth is an obstacle to our budgetary nature. This year we have managed to secure funding for its call for proposals, and for 2010, we are still negotiating, and I hope that we will be able to sustain, retain or strengthen this supportive environment here, as we would like.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Darko Menich will ask the Minister for Environment and Space. Dear colleagues, the Minister for the Environment and Space already apologized during the meeting that he would not be able to attend after 5 p.m. Please, do you still want to ask the question that he will answer next time? Please, Mr. Menich, a question of the mission.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u115	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, well-respected ministers, colleagues, colleagues, good-bye! They're natural disasters, and apparently they'll get more and more frequent. The Commission of the Ministry of Environment and Space has a very high threshold of 2.6 million euros to be reached in order to help remedy the consequences of the accident. This threshold includes 0.3 thresholds for the value of the State budget. Problems arise in all municipalities that fail to achieve this high threshold and are left to their budgetary resources alone at the cost of recovery. The Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Accidents, Official Gazette of the Republic of Slovenia No 114/2005 in Article 11, discusses the elimination of the consequences of natural disasters and the eligibility of State aid. I ask the Minister: What are the guidelines of the Ministry of Environment and Space for Assistance in Sanitation? And: Will the high threshold of damage in the future be reduced or changed or supplemented in any way? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Dr Vinko Gorenak will ask the Minister of Justice a question. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Mr. Menich wants more Procedural or? [[...]] [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u117	Procedurally. I was ready for the Minister's answer, but if you'd give it to me for a supplement, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u118	Look, the minister who apologized is obviously going to have to answer that question at the next meeting. When he responds, you will also be able to make a proposal to complete the answer or request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u119	Then I also propose this right under Article 246. [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u120	This, after you are satisfied or dissatisfied with all the Minister's replies, you will decide on Article 246, paragraph 2, as usual.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u121	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u122	Mr. Gorenak, you're here, please ask a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u123	In the hope that the Minister will come, of course, I will ask a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u124	We'll make sure he gets here. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u125	In 2008, amendments and supplements to the bankruptcy law were adopted - so I will name it, we know which law it is, otherwise it has a longer title and has entered into force 1. Ten. 2008 This law has limited or established awards to bankruptcy managers in some other way, a percentage of the value of the assets. In addition, this law made it very clear that, for old bankruptcy procedures, it began before 1. Ten. 2008, old ways of calculating bankruptcy awards apply and new procedures apply. Let me give you some information about what happened after this period. At the time of Minister Sturm, 40 days of Minister Sturm, 1. Ten. - 20. 11. 2008, therefore, until the change of government, 116,000 and several euro monetary awards were paid to all bankruptcy managers in Slovenia. In January 106,000, February 81,000, March 210, April 555, May 475. Later, however, we changed the so - called bankruptcy law and the system that had been put in place until then broke. This system, which I'm mentioning has collapsed, is in the next. In fact, the old law, until the novel in May of this year, was clear: for bankruptcy awards before 1. Ten. The old law shall apply in 2008. In the opposition, we have clearly warned, and we have tabled an amendment so that this matter does not change. However, the coalition's insistence on this has changed, and for the bankruptcy procedures introduced before 1. Ten. 2008, we are at the wish of the coalition in accordance with the new law, with the amendment of the law, 13. On 6th this year, they also started to apply a new rule for old bankruptcys, a new way of accounting for old bankruptcys. And look at what happened: in 15 working days, the awards went up to a million €134,000 for bankruptcy managers. Later on I will add some more information, but I would still ask, Minister: Why did you, why did we, why did the coalition and you insist that this provision be changed so that the new tariff was also applied to old bankruptcys? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u126	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u127	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have a different forecast of the oral question before me, and I will read what this question is. The question is: "How many awards were paid to bankruptcy managers between 1.10.2008 and 31.8.2009 after each month?" The Member is particularly interested in how much payments were made between 1.10.2008 and 31.10.2008 and from 1.11.2008 until the end of the previous Government's term of office. The Member is particularly interested in how much payments were made between 11.7.2009 and 31.7.2009 and from 1.8.2009 to 31.8.2009. I've prepared to answer that question. In this regard, as regards payments after each month, I explain to you that a specific chronological review of the decisions issued and published on the awards to the insolvency administrators was prepared between October 2008 and August 2009, which was transmitted on 4 September to the Research Section of the National Assembly and to the Member of the Committee of the National Assembly for Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice. We did it on July 30, 2009. If I wanted to summarize all these payments on a case-by-case basis, of course, it would take about two hours to read these amounts. Probably not even the right place to do it. However, I would like to point out that this chronological examination shows that the awards to managers were different and dependent on the purpose of the award. The analysis transmitted shall cover the monthly data presentation for each controller, the amount of the prize, the purpose, the debtors' list, the correct case number, the date of the decision and so on. In view of the time I have been given for this oral answer to your question, which has been announced, I should say that all the data for the periods that have been exposed have been transmitted in the context of these checks. With regard to the question, which was explicitly raised with these payments for the period from 11 to 31 July 2009, these data are also transmitted in these analyses with the date 30 July. With regard to the management awards decisions for the period from 1 to 31 August this year, we will be able to provide information in the annex on the answer to your written question received on 15 September 2009 and, of course, concerning the awards to managers. Let me conclude by concluding that all decisions in specific cases on the payment of prizes are for the managers of the decision-making of the courts. All decisions of the courts arising from this period may also be subject to judgments under the relevant legal proceedings. And in this respect, I can tell you that these remedies have been submitted in a large number of cases, not only in cases where the State is a creditor in the process or one of the creditors, but also in other cases where the State is not a creditor in the process, but other creditors, the beneficiaries of the challenge, have done so. The first decisions of the courts in these cases are already well known. In five cases, as far as I am aware so far, the Court followed the complaint and issued the relevant decisions to annul the decisions issued on the recognition of these compensations to bankruptcy managers, referring, inter alia, to the inadequate legal basis used by the courts as a basis for the assessment of compensation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u128	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u129	Mr. Minister, what you sent to the National Assembly is for the purposes of the research department. I had only those numbers that I had calculated myself on the basis of your answer to one of my questions before that. And these numbers are, I'll say, worrying. Taking into account the fact that you state it, and I accept it, that it was decided by the courts. Absolutely! But I want to say something, look, at the time of the so-called novel of yours, if I can call it that, where the government has, in fact, vehemently rejected what we have proposed in the opposition. This is that the new procedures, i.e. the new rules, apply even to the back. That's not what we wanted. And so these Slovenian courts increased to a million 300,000 euros, half a month. And another thing happened. Look, as with the penal law, I'm sorry, but you are because you rushed and said that it does not apply to minors or that it is not supposed to apply, you are also here 1. 7. You have made it very clear that you will limit the bankruptcy awards. This was a good purpose for you, I understand that your good purpose was and I respect it, but unfortunately, ten days too quickly, because the Slovenian courts, and I want to stress this particular information, have reacted again. Look what they've done. Slovenian courts, I have a graph here, awarded two million 300,000 euros in bankruptcy awards in seven working days. Can you imagine? 2 million 300,000 euros and more than 100,000 euros a month. And that's a problem. I support that you have asked for an opinion from the Kosovo Commission, and I hope that the Kosovo Commission will tell you that this is corruption between judges and bankruptcy administrators. However, it is also necessary to help [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Attorney-General. [[...]] I don't know what you're thinking. I think there's going to be something else to say in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u130	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Dear Member, I think that as Minister of Justice, I have done everything I can, what was in my power at the moment I was informed of what might happen or when I was informed of the first case that pointed to this great, I can say an anomaly in the system. I, too, regrettably cannot find a reasonable explanation for why the courts have ruled on these cases to such an extent during this period. However, as Minister, in particular not as Minister of Justice, I do not think I can accept the issue that I should secretly prepare a sub-legislative act and literally surprise all participants in bankruptcy proceedings for publication in the Official Journal in order to perhaps reduce these decisions of the courts. I can't come out of this assumption as a minister. You need to understand that if we are all committed to transparency, this also means transparency in the drafting phase of a regulation. This is also true for a sub-law. The public, both professional and general, has the right to speak on this matter. It has also been pronounced in this period until the issue of this sub-law. I do not hope to claim that this is some illegal or even corrupt link between judges and insolvency administrators. It is true, however, that in order to verify this, I have also asked the Attorney General's Office and that I am still waiting for their report on the findings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u132	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u133	For absolutely principled reasons, I propose that we discuss this in accordance with Article 246. I am taking advantage of the Minister's reply, not to attack the Minister, I have no such intentions, but to find out what has happened in the final stage, which is problematic, as the Minister himself has stated on the Committee, but also now to answer the question of the Member State, and to find out what has happened in the final stage; to take advantage of what the Slovenian judges have announced - although I would not have predicted in your role, but here we are different - to take advantage of the Minister's statement and in such an ugly way react. However, Slovenian judges are diplomats. Who are the bankruptcy managers? Lawyers. In this country there are about 60 people involved in bankruptcy proceedings, and these are lawyers. So who are they? These are their classmates. And let us be realistic, pour ourselves pure wine in such a debate, and let us make it clear that they did not do the right thing, even when we are talking about the third branch of power. Because, forgive me - that the Slovenian judges have set bankruptcy awards 2 million EUR 350 thousand or 23 times more in seven working days than in the previous month, no one will convince me that this is on behalf of the people. I'm sorry, on behalf of the people who don't strike for wages anymore. There's no attack on the minister. Please, Minister, I don't mind. Let us tell these Slovenian courts that they are not doing what they have done. Let's get them to see what they've done. That is all I want to achieve with this debate. Even in the light of tomorrow’s discussion of another law, with which we will raise their wages. That's why I'm asking for this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u134	Thank you. The Parliament's proposal to discuss or discuss the response of the Minister of Justice to his question of the Member of Parliament will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. We are moving on to the next question put by Dr. Luka Juri, the Minister for Environment and Space, who is not present. I'm asking, do you want to ask a question anyway? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u135	Thank you very much, Chairman. The Regulation on Limit values for Light Pollution was adopted on 7 September 2007. Among other things, Article 4 provides that the proportion of the luminous flux of lamps or lamps radiating above the horizon may be zero per cent. Article 28 of this same Regulation, including following amendments, provides that the time limit for aligning already established lighting with the provisions of the Regulation is 31 December 2008. This applies to general lighting, and on 31 December 2008 it also applies to all advertising industries. I regret to say that instead of coordinating matters, even the new lighting, which has been put on the table, is contrary to the provisions of the Regulation. As early as April, I sent the Minister a question from which I asked him about a specific case in the Municipality of Koper. After a request to complete the reply, because I think the answer was not sufficient, I received an answer that the inspectors would check the specific case. I assume that such things are happening all over Slovenia, not only in the Municipality of Koper. That's why I'm asking the Minister: At what stage has implementation laid down regulations on limit values for light pollution? Just given that some of the dates set out in the Regulation are already over. At the same time, I am interested, and this is very important: Has the establishment of a compliance monitoring system established regulations? What measures have been taken so far, including the amount of fines, due to non-compliance with the Regulation? Given that the Minister is not here, in accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure, I request an oral reply at the next meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u136	Thank you. You will receive an answer at the next meeting if the Minister is present. Mr Miro Petek, Minister of Finance, will now raise the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u137	Thank you for your word. The tax administration of the Republic of Slovenia, which belongs to your department, Mr. Minister, has 16 tax offices per country and several ten tax exposures. In the light of my written question addressed to you by me and you answered it, but it referred to the tax office of Dravograd, it turned out that huge funds were being allocated to rents. For Koroška alone, the tax office in Dravograd has a rent of 8.94 euros per square metre, which means more than €15.200 per month, and for nine garages in this same location the state pays an additional EUR 540. There are exhibitions everywhere in Koroškem in the rented premises for which different rents are paid, ranging from 4.16 euros per square metre, in Radlja, up to 6.36 euros per square metre for exhibition in Slovenj Gradc. The common country pays an additional EUR 5,000 per month for all three exhibitions in Koroška. With this rent in Dravograd, i.e. more than 20,000 euros a month, under the line of 240,000 euros a year for rent only. This is the case from Koroška. However, I am interested in the state of Slovenia as a whole, along with tax offices and tax stations. How much space does a tax collector rent and how much he pays per month for these premises? Where is the highest rent in Slovenia? The second question concerns the already mentioned tax office in Dravograd. Do you not think, Mr Minister, that 8,94 euros per square metre or more than 15,000 euros per month paid by the State to the private company SKB Consulting is not very much, especially for the Carinthian situation? The rents in Koroška are much lower than in Ljubljana or on the coast or elsewhere in Slovenia. You've been to Kroskem recently, you've visited the tax office in Dravograd, and I wonder if you've been talking about changing this lease so that the country can get a little cheaper through? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u138	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u139	Thank you very much. The answer, as prepared, is yes. The tax administration of the Republic of Slovenia has 52 rental premises, 7 premises are in a financial lease and 26 have our own premises. The exact answer is shown in the table that I will comment on later. Average monthly rents in 2009 amount to 455 thousand 969,86 euros or 456 thousand euros. For 2008, it amounted to 368,000 and for 2007 it amounted to 341 thousand 609 euros. In 2006, there were more than 380 000 €343. Monthly rent amounts for 2009 are set out in the Annex. In each month, the amounts vary due to different currencies of payment. I'll also comment on this attachment later. With regard to the question of what was done in the last year to reduce rents, we explain that we have cancelled some leases in full, some in part, some of our own premises we have transferred to the management of other state bodies: the Ministry of Public Administration, the Administrative Unit Cerknica, the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Public Payments. At the same time, we are negotiating with larger lenders to reduce the rent. That's Sava EPEP. [[?]] and Hippo Leasing d.o.o. The Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia pursued the goal of as many owned spaces as possible, which unfortunately we could not achieve because the Ministry of Justice has taken over the premises for the Kranj Tax Office and the Tax Office of Celje. [[..]] Rent, monthly, average, significantly fluctuate, from the minimum, January, from 351 000, due to the accounts very large in July - as much as 770 000. Last year, the total rent was 4 million, 417 thousand, 765,84 euros. This year we pay according to contracts. I also told the Member who owns it. He also knows this, but, however, in Dravograd, Dravograd Tax Office on Maribor Road 3, the owner is SKB Consulting d.o.o. Then the second unit of Dravograd is in Radljah ob Drava, again the Tax Administration of Dravograd, on Maribor Road 7, the Municipality of Radlje ob Drava is the owner and gets the rent. Then Dravograd, exhibition in Ravna na Koroškem, Prežihova street. 7, the municipality of Ravne in Koroškem is the owner and receives the rent. And then Draggrad, the exhibition Slovenj Gradec, is on Meškova Street 21, the Municipality of Slovenj Gradec is the owner. I visited the tax administration units of Dravograd, and I looked at these extremely modern and functional premises. However, I did not ask myself about the height there, nor did the tax administration inform me that any complication with excessive rent or the incomprehensibility of paying rent in these premises would be involved. In reverse, of course, we should go to the building of our own unit. If that turns out to be true, we'll go this way. However, the contracts on which the rent is paid were adopted in the previous period. We inherited it. However, from the point of view of the functionality of the premises of the young and dedicated collective, I must say that I was in this unit, I will not say, just surprised, but I must say that this unit is quite one centre of excellence in that part of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u140	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u141	Thank you so much for that part of your answer. I'm glad you're happy with these rooms. Surely the workers are pleased, and we can all be satisfied. However, the problem is in rent, which is quite high for the Carinthian situation, even with comparisons of how much they pay in Ravna or how much they pay in Dravograd. I don't think it's good for the state to protect some real estate tycoons and thus create an extra state, a material state. But I'm not going to discuss how this property came to be. That's another story. I'd be happy to say you're trying to cut rent this year or in the coming years by 10, 20%. This, given the amount you mentioned, would have saved about half a million dollars each year. There's something else I need to mention for Dravograd that you forgot to mention here. No matter what time this treaty was adopted and what happened in the past, I do not care. It's the taxpayer's money. In Dravograd, the state owns 600 square metres of premises of your ministry or tax administration, which have been empty since the tax office moved to the other side of Drava. Mrs Irma Pavlinič Krebs calculated that we could get around €5,300 per month for these 600 square metres, which means that we lost 128 000 euros in these two years, paying 380 000 euros in rent for these premises.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u142	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u143	Thank you very much. We will certainly examine your comments, including the ownership of the SKB. Because it looks like it's the SKB bank, that it's one of her subsidiaries, this Consulting, but the SKB probably didn't give it to some small group. We'll see what this is all about. And if there is any suspicion, any irregularities, then we will act.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u144	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u145	In accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose a discussion on the response of Minister Križanič. I would like to point out that this is SKB Consulting, which is a private company and has no connection with the SKB Bank, so we are clear about this. I think that this debate on Minister Križanič's response would be an incentive for the whole Government to start thinking about the question of rents and the question of empty spaces owned by the State. Your colleague on the right would tell you that government services and ministries have 36 locations in the country that are empty today. Mrs. Irma, hold that? In another written answer to my question, you wrote this down. On the other hand, we have 350 contracts for renting premises. 350 contracts are awarded to the State for renting premises, which at monthly level amounts to EUR 2 million for rents. This is an enormously high amount, amounting to EUR 24 million per year. On the other hand, we have spaces in the country that are empty. I think we should have a serious discussion about this in the National Assembly. I therefore ask my colleagues to vote in favour of this proposal tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u146	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Petk to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance to his question, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, Tuesday, 22 September 2009, in the framework of the vote. The next question will be asked by Mr Silven Majhenič, but the Minister of the Interior is absent. Do you still want to ask a question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u147	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Slovenian legislation allows a foreigner to establish a company and register it at the address without the owner's knowledge and permission. And when the director of the company gets a work permit in this way, Chinese citizens and citizens from the republics of the former Yugoslavia take advantage of it. No competent authority shall, when registering the company, verify the consent of the owners of the dwellings and the owners of the dwellings to which these speculators are registered. Thus, thousands of new companies have been reported in Slovenia, with thousands of new directors registered on addresses without the knowledge of the owners of apartments and houses. Nobody's even checking to see if these companies are even doing business. No one is disturbed by the registration of 100 and more companies at one address, but they are only speculative in nature and are the exploitation of loose legislation permitted by the Slovenian state. We have also been warned of irregularities from the European Union. So I ask myself: What else must happen if this calvary of crime and illegal registrations of businesses and violence against owners of apartments and dwellings is to be stopped? And if I'm more specific: Slovenia has imported more than 10,000 directors from foreign countries. Companies have been established, which are solely for the purpose of obtaining a permit to stay and for obtaining a work permit at the employment office, and cannot even ask whether the company actually operates. If the owner of the property in a court of law wishes to obtain the removal of the company from his address, he must in particular prove that he owns the property and submit all the necessary documents. In any event, this is a long-term procedure and takes several months. And the pure absurdity is that you want to report your relative at your address, and you have to prove ownership by documents. That's why I'm asking. Changes in this area are expected immediately by all those involved in this matter, not by their own fault, and it is therefore necessary to amend the law and simplify the procedure for the removal of these illegal companies of foreign nationals. Of course, it's a matter of time before the government settles this. Whether a law is being drawn up to remedy these irregularities to the owners of the property on which companies have illegally registered has enabled these speculative companies to be deleted immediately. Because the Minister is not present, I ask for a written answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u148	Thank you. The next question will be asked by Mr Branko Marinič to the Minister of Public Administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u149	Thank you so much for saying that. Respected and respected! In the Republic of Slovenia, we have many job losses in the economy from day to day. Just at a time when the fate of almost 100,000 unemployed ends in employment institutions, the public is getting information that the number of employees in the public sector is increasing. In some way, in some proportion, public sector officials should share fate. Under the coalition agreements, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has defined matters differently than we can actually monitor today. Therefore, Mrs Irmo Pavlinič Krebs, Director of Public Administration, asks: Is the Slovenian public at this moment well aware of the increase in the number of employees in the public sector between December 2008 and August 2009? Let me remind you that some of the public media reported on this subject, but it was a different number of public sector employees during this period for which I ask you. My question is that, today, Members and Members also have an accurate answer, regardless of who is competent to determine the number of employees in the public sector, and no matter what method they use. The method may be different, but the final result must be the same. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u150	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u151	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Member, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Absolutely, the Slovenian public today and also in the past had the right to know the real, real data on growth or decline in the number of employees in the public sector. In the past, your government has communicated only and only data on the number of employees accompanied by the Ministry of Public Administration and therefore the number of employees in the civil part of the state administration, where there are around 17,000 of them, after adding a military uniformed part where there are additional, I can even tell you the exact data, but it is irrelevant, and in this part it has reported as a methodological unit that the number of employees has managed to reduce by 2%. The fact that the number of employees during the previous government would fall by 2% in the public sector, as reported by former Minister Virant and your President, Mr Janša, has not been true. All those paid under the Public Sector Wages Act as a methodological unit, as employees, anywhere, depending on the head of an individual employed in the public service, or in a healthcare home or school, do not have the same method of measurement until the moment that the Ministry uses two services, AJPES and the Statistical Office, we want to establish it. IAPES, the only data, publishes data on the number of employees of public servants who have been managed monthly since 2004, according to a specific methodology. After that, the number of employees shall be recalculated from the hours they have completed, so that, for example, overtime paid and on-call hours paid are also taken into account as a basis for the conversion of the number of employees. However, they are included in this data, all of which are subject to a single payment system. When I was preparing austerity measures, it was not clear to me that it was almost impossible for us to have no number of individuals. But the key to the amount of wages is the number of hours times the amount of pay or the value of an hour. It is therefore clear from these data that the amount of salaries required for public servants has increased sharply from 2004 to 2008. According to this methodology, for example, what you asked me in December 2004 was the number of employees 150.178 and in December 2008 156.381. The difference is 6,203 employees or a monthly increase of 129 employees. Once again, we don't count heads, this is calculated from hours, which is relevant to the mass of wages. And when we took power, 156.381 were over the hours of the staff being recalculated. Today, after seven months, July 2009, or after the calculated hours of 156,558 or 177 head count after hours, there are more of us. The average monthly increase is 22, for the time of your government 129. That's real data. Look at the APIS and you'll see it's true. That's why the weight is getting bigger. Not only because of a completely unrealistic salary reform, but also because of the increasing number of hours spent by public servants in the provision of public services. As a result, the current government has taken all measures that show that we are able to reduce not only the number of hours of office work. You know exactly how your government has hired 143 public servants. We only have 52 cabinet jobs. At this point, we have fewer in the civilian part of the state administration. That's where we're shrinking. However, we are increasing, as we have already said publicly, because of operational capacity and Schengen, we are necessarily increasing the police, the military and the employees of the administration for the enforcement of criminal sanctions. We openly communicate and make every effort to [[...]] [[A warning for the end of the debate.]] the salaries have also been reduced by limiting the number of hours carried out by public servants. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u152	Thank you. Do you have a follow-up question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u153	Thank you for saying that again. Dear Minister! Your answer was to another question that I didn't ask. I asked you specifically: how many employees were there by December 2008 and how many have you increased this number from December 2008 to August 2009? That was my question. Your skilled avoidance of my particular issue was, of course, transferred to the number of hours, 156 000 and so on, and now the Slovenian public should imagine whether you were talking about the number of employees or you were talking about the number of hours or methodology used by the APES. So there was no answer. I repeat the question. I ask you: how many employees of public servants were physically in the number by December 2008 and how many did you exceed this number by August 2009? That was my question. I hope to have a satisfactory answer to the second, repeated supplementary question, so that Members and Members can truly imagine whether it is such or otherwise misleading, misleading, or whether the Ministry of Public Administration has the correct data. And please be correct. I have already repeated the question three times, so I hope to get an accurate answer, not only me, but also the Slovenian public.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u154	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Since I was not clear enough, you can ask former Minister Virant who is using the AJPES data because in the Republic of Slovenia - I hope that I am clear enough - until today when I began to trouble myself as Minister because it is impossible to control the amount of wages without knowing how many employees you have in the whole public sector, I have found that there is no methodology in Slovenia to measure the number of employees, just as you are now pulling me by the language and you want an answer. We're setting up this methodology. We've got an I.P.P.E. methodology that measures the clock. We have a methodology of the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for statistics measuring the number of employees, not only those paid under the Public Sector Wage System Act, but also all employees in non-economic public services, which is not the same. Then we have the methodology of the Ministry of Public Administration, which measures the narrow civilian part of the state administration and the uniformed part. But here we have employees 21.11.2008 16.706 was in the civil part of the state administration, today it is 16.687, so minus 20. In civilian work, we have the ambition to reduce by the end of 2009. This is where we are getting smaller because we are implementing all the measures that are possible. As you can see, we haven't done as much cabinet work as we could for almost half as you do, because we want to save. Police, date one. 8. 2009 are more than one hundred and two police officers, there are more than two hundred and three hundred and seventy soldiers and at this moment three guards, because the proceedings are still under way. In this part, they may be available by the end of 2009 on the basis of a decision of the Government of Employees of around seven hundred. This is a conscious decision of this government to do so because of the needs of all three uniformed parts of Slovenia, despite saving. This didn't just happen to us and just like that. And you, in the past, have not been monitoring and reporting to the public in the public sector at all. For the last time, Mr Virant took the number one thousand five hundred and said the IAPES data. He said we did it by 2%. No! No! You have monthly increased the significantly faster number of hours spent in the public sector than we are now doing with a really restrictive and austerity approach, and it is not right to mislead the public. I can honestly say where he works. And that's where it's gonna get bigger. Before that, the public had been misled. I speak with full responsibility because I was surprised to find that we have not yet established the methodology you expect. I did, too, and we don't have one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u156	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u157	I am not satisfied with the content of the answer, which is why I am taking advantage of the business provision on the basis of which the National Assembly would carry out a broader discussion on this subject. Let me justify my request that tomorrow Members and Members decide and thus receive unequivocal answers, because it is not long before we adopted the Police Act in the National Assembly, which allows for the activation and re-employment of retired police officers. Isn't this about increasing the number of employees? Somewhere in the middle of the year or just a little earlier, we have considered the first balance of the state budget, where it is on the budget consumer line: the anti-corruption Commission has raised the item by more than a hundred percent, including by justification and justification for raising the item due to the additional employment of public servants. I think that there are quite a few legal provisions, and I have listed a number of these legal provisions that we have adopted in the past, which have also, or in particular, been directed towards increasing the number of employees in the public sector consciously. We have warned about this in the opposition, and this has actually happened in the past. In addition, let me explain this and further explain that it is not possible and impossible to compare the debate in the National Assembly on the Minister's response to the period when Slovenia presided over the EU either by one or by another methodology and not to get to the right numbers. I am convinced that it is imperative to use that methodology, which is based on today's time, that no matter what methodology we use, the divider, the divider and the numerator are always the same, whether it is the same method or not. I hope that through the public debate in the National Assembly, we will get to the exact figures, unfortunately, even on my question today, and we have not heard the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u158	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Marinič to hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Public Administration to his question, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow in the context of the vote. Mr. Janez Ribič, the Minister for the Environment, is absent. Will you still ask the question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u159	Thank you. The venerable are still present! Floods and captures in recent years have shown how vulnerable we are to extraordinary events, which we have been alerting for many years. Despite all these warnings and an ever-increasing number of exceptional events, this year's case, the Ministry of the Environment and Space is continuing to squander resources for the maintenance of watercourses and water infrastructure. In view of the situation on the ground, regular maintenance works are not carried out on watercourses, which are essential to their flow and to prevent their flooding and, as a consequence, to endanger the population. Moreover, there are no investment projects to be carried out from the water fund, except for the construction of the lower Sava power plant chain, which is not a water infrastructure, but a resultant building of energy facilities. One such project, which has been late for decades and beyond, is the construction of high water embankments of Drava between Maribor and Ptava on the left bank of Drava in the municipality of Duplek. It is expected to take place in 2007. According to optimistic forecasts, however, it will be implemented in 2011. All of these events show that the country does not have a water policy, where a clear policy to address the risks of settlements and economic infrastructure against water is not a spatial policy in relation to water and peripheral space, pollution protection and protection of aquatic ecosystems. According to this, you, Mr. Minister, I ask the following questions: Can you present in more detail the tasks of the State with regard to the regulation of water and the implementation of the public service for the maintenance of watercourses of the second order? How many times a year do regular maintenance works take place on watercourses? Who regularly supervises the state of the watercourses? How many times a year? What are the criteria according to which the Ministry of Environment and Space prepares an annual programme for maintenance works on watercourses? What are the procedures of the Ministry or the public service provider in the event of flooding of watercourses or in the case of natural disasters? Does the local community have the authority to perform intervention works in the event of flooding of watercourses? What about the financing of these parts? With questions to the Minister, I will not give up until the security of the people from the floods is ensured on the ground.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u160	Thank you. Would you like an oral response to the next meeting?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u161	I want an oral answer, of course. In view of what the Minister is not today, and the disaster is approaching, on the left bank of the Drava River, from Maribor to Ptuj, in the area of Duplek Drava and the watercourses have not been cleared for years and years, so I suggest that the last floods that were still in the past month, as well as 1/3 of the village of Duplek [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u162	You will when the Minister is present. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u163	And I'd like to propose solutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u164	No, thank you. You will receive an answer at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u165	Then I would like a discussion to take place under Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u166	No, you can do that next time.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u167	The answers will come too late because there will be catastrophic floods. We can't wait for the next session.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u168	It can't be done sooner.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u169	But when you can, just like it was in the railroads. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u170	Mr Andrej Magajna, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, will ask the next question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u171	Greetings to all present, especially Minister Ivan Svetlik. My question concerns the issue of non-payment of social security contributions. Many employers solve their liquidity problems year after year, and in the last period even more, by not paying social security contributions. These include contributions to pension and disability insurance, health care, parental care. Research journalist Mirsad Begić of Labour Unity took quite some time and effort to obtain the relevant data. Among other things, it has been found that non-payments from year to year have not only increased but also that the tax administration has no up-to-date records. Such monthly records cannot be obtained easily only for a period of six months. At the same time, one wonders whether the Tax Administration already has no stale record of how only a worker can know about the data on whether the employer has paid him social security contributions. Unfortunately, some find this only years later, when it is a little late and they have to resort to civil action. I have already raised a question or initiative on my own on the Labour Committee a while ago to give a paper to the employer, which would clearly show that he also paid his contributions. To his safety. Look. In the last half-year, compared to last year's half-year, this figure rose by 15% again and exceeded 160 million of these unpaid contributions. My question is: How can a worker even check how data is obtained? What formal legal obligations does the employer have other than these moral obligations? What are the measures, or options, that the worker has to verify or initiate the procedure or exercise his or her right? This is my question, at the same time, which is an incentive for this issue to be settled, because workers and trade unionists, who also turn to me, say that this matter is not adequately resolved.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u172	Thank you. Mr. Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u173	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Member. This issue concerns the work of several institutions. Among other things, the Tax Administrations, which is not under our control, will state what they say on the Tax Administration in these cases. First time, then. The Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia shall, at its request, disclose to each natural person the information on contributions to compulsory pension insurance and any other insurance provided by law, whether or not these contributions have been paid. A natural person does so by submitting a request for the transmission of data that can be found on the tax administration’s website or obtained from all tax offices. A natural person may inform the tax authority if he or she is unsure whether the employer has charged and paid the compulsory charges for it. If the tax authority finds that the employer has not settled its obligation to pay compulsory duties, then the tax authority shall, by virtue of its official duty, initiate the tax enforcement procedure. Let me add that workers can prove that the legal person, their employer, has become more inequitable if, for more than 3 months, he is late to pay taxes and contributions to be charged or paid at the same time as the remuneration of workers, unless this has been justified by agreement. This is stated by the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. As these provisions are being implemented on an up-to-date basis, I do not know how to give you the data on my part, but it may be necessary for the Ministry of Finance to complete this reply, whether this is an ongoing response or a certain time-lag. However, as regards this issue concerning the Disability and Pension Insurance Act and our area, I can point out that the Slovenian Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance is also obliged to provide a copy of this certificate of contributions paid. That is to say, the employer is obliged to issue a copy of this certificate to the insured for whom the employer’s contribution is due. If workers find that the employer does not pay contributions for pension and disability insurance, they may contact the Labour Inspectorate. If the work inspector finds that this has not been paid, he may, by decision, prohibit the employer from carrying out the work process or using the means of work to remedy the irregularity. It also has criminal possibilities of charging the employer with appropriate penalties or a misdemeanour. I would add that as regards employees who find that the employer did not pay the corresponding contributions, they have three options. The first step is to notify the employer in writing of the breach of this Treaty, which is, of course, the basis for a further step, if this is not resolved, then inform the labour inspectorate, which is doing as I mentioned earlier. However, workers may also benefit from exceptional dismissals on the employer's part of the employment relationship, with all the rights of the unemployed to meet other conditions, provided they find, of course, that these payments have not been made by the employer. Thus, it is not necessary for the employer to pay these obligations in full in terms of pay and contributions. Even if only contributions have not been paid, he has the same right to unilateral interruption because the employer is to blame. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u174	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u175	I just thank the Minister for a very comprehensive answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u176	Thank you. The Minister for Education and Sport is absent. Mr. Robert Hrvat, will you still ask a question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u177	Thank you for your word. Mr President, I would first like to ask if all these ministers have apologized for today's meeting. As I know, at the beginning of the meeting, five ministers or ministers were excused. Right now, the hall is actually empty. One on-call minister. I do not know now whether coalition coordination is more important than answers to parliamentary questions. Nevertheless, I will take this opportunity to ask this question. Dear Mr. Secretary! At the end of August, meetings of the Ministry of Education and Sport were held with school principals. The main topic of the meeting was the awareness of the threat of the flu in the autumn time, for which you hope Minister, at least so stated in the media, that it will bypass us. I hope so, too. So far, there have been no clear answers regarding measures to be taken by schools in the event of a flu outbreak at school. So far, discussions have only taken place in the direction of prevention, personal hygiene and the like. Experience from the Southern Hemisphere shows that in autumn and winter we can also expect new forms of flu of larger proportions, which can spread unforeseeably. And this is also true of the wider environment, for example, at least of the parents, who, unfortunately, do not yet have the answers to the dilemmas. We are all aware that the school space is one more suitable for the emergence and also for the rapid spread of the flu, but we are also before the beginning of the period of the emergence of the potential flu, so I think it is right to talk about this in Parliament. I am interested in the measures taken by the Government and the competent institutions in the event of a pandemic, i.e. a major epidemic. The Institute of Health Protection also envisages the closure of schools and kindergartens as a last resort. I therefore ask you, regarding the implementation of preventive measures to prevent and mitigate the consequences of the flu: How are preparations for the activities of the Ministry of Education and Sport in the event of an outbreak of the flu taking place and by whom? When and how will schools be familiar with guidance on how to deal with the outbreak of the larger flu? When and how will the parents of children attending schools be familiar? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u178	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u179	Thank you for asking. I was in the middle of receiving European basketball players, so I was a little late. In my opinion, the government has begun to prepare in time for this. In June, he established a special group led by the Minister of Health, which includes state secretaries of all ministries. At the Ministry of Education at the end of August, we called all school administrators and gave them appropriate instructions on how to act preventively and in particular how to monitor data on the presence of children. This turned out to be very good, because at least at one school, the thing went with everything that comes with panic. From 5 to 10 children with disabilities, 95 and 140 children remained at home. And we were before closing school on Friday; that was also an option. That's when I said, let's wait till Monday, because when we close one school, everyone's gonna get sick, and then they're gonna stay home. I am against the fact that we are panicking, especially to the point where the flu is still so far shows that it is not dangerous for any more serious consequences, but in particular for what you, Mr Member, have warned us about, of course, that we are all most afraid of having any fatalities. This flu doesn't carry that kind of danger with it right now. We're ready for that at the Ministry. The Secretary of State runs a group at the Ministry. Schools report sickness or absence every day. In cooperation with the Institute for Health Protection and the Ministry of Health, we are in daily contact. We're checking the data one way or the other, it says, from the infirmary and from school. So we have a real picture, or at least roughly a picture of how much is actually a disease that is recorded in health care and health care, how much is a preventive measure that parents are taking, so that children are not sent to school because they are afraid that it might be a problem for them. On Friday, 145 students did not make it to this school. Today, 50 students did not come, so it seems that the matter is going well. I think at the Ministry we manage the matter well, not to be subject to what parents can succumb to, say, preventively directed parents. We're doing a good job on things so far. I think that Slovenia, the Slovenian education in this regard, is good hands and that we can expect to take these matters as Slovenia deserves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u180	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u181	Minister, thank you for your answers. I'm sorry if I'd known you were at the basketball reception, I would have congratulated you more on not criticizing you. I'd still say this. Experience in recent months from other continents shows that despite preventive measures against the new flu, there have been serious consequences. And these months are coming to us now. A good example for further questions is also an example of one of the Slovenian schools you discussed earlier, where recently there has been an infection of a slightly larger number of students, where everything now can be said to have ended happily. I do not want to create some kind of paranoia or some state of emergency, but I think it is right for parents to know what the measures will be if, hopefully, there is no major infection. I am interested in some very specific and very logical questions. Who's supposed to close schools? Then I'm asked the question: How will child protection be organised if the school is closed? Will parents be able to stay at the hospital if the school is closed? Where will a child who will be sick of the flu in school, given that schools do not have spaces in the sense of isolation, as we once knew them? Will the staff of educational institutions be on the priority vaccination list? I'd like to ask you for very specific answers. These are questions that concern all of us, that is, parents. Then what happens if this happens? Is the action plan developed and so on? I am sure that you have all these measures and procedures carefully worked out, so I would also like precise answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u182	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u183	Thanks for the extra question. Look, what we can appeal to in this case first is the use of common sense. It's impossible for me to do that when it comes to closing school. How do you do that? [[...]] Following the procedure the director proposes, the ministry agrees and then the school closes for a certain period, we monitor how the flu behaves and when we see that the danger is gone, we can reopen the school. In responding to this, it is particularly important that we do not go too far with what measures are possible. I replied to a press question similar to this: "Don't go too far with such questions because we unnecessarily disturb the Slovenian public." We have prepared measures, but these measures cannot be of a collective nature in the sense that we will then organise some gathering or protection of children elsewhere. It can't be. Then you need to isolate your children, your parents, and your parents enter here with their responsibility. It is impossible to bring people together in such cases, for it is the association that leads to things moving forward. That's why it has to be coordinated. When it comes to it, and if it comes to it, it's certainly not just the school department that can solve problems. When we drop out of school, that's when other jobs, social services, and so on. Above all, people have to stay at home. Those who get sick should not walk among other people. If my baby gets sick, I have to stay home and take care of him because there's no one else. In this case, too, the state cannot organise any kind of protection, so I think that people will understand it and in this sense they can behave well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u184	Thank you. Mr Zvonko Lah will also ask the Minister of Education and Sport. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u185	Dear Mr. Secretary! Continuous changes in primary education and pre-school legislation, including the introduction of a nine-year primary school programme, the introduction of spatial standards, 3 square metres of indoor playgrounds in kindergarten for children and the introduction of free kindergarten for the second and subsequent children of the same family, together with an increase in births in recent years, increase the need for places in schools and kindergartens. At the time of the introduction of a nine-year-old, the Ministry of Education and Sport issued a call for a declaration of special importance in the field of primary education and pre-school education for the period 2000-2004, setting out the order of co-financing for 159 investments, but not all were realised during the planned period. In 2007 and 2008, the Ministry issued two additional annual calls for co-financing of investments for primary education and pre-school education. I ask the minister: How many preschool children are left at the door of kindergartens in all congregations this year? What is the total amount of funding needed to cover the co-financing share of the Ministry of Education and Sport, the selected projects in accordance with the applicable Community Financing Act? What is the Ministry of Education and Sport’s financial and forward-looking plan to cover the already selected investments in the planned period in the plans for the development programmes of the Republic of Slovenia’s budget? What are the programmes and measures of the Ministry of Education and Sport to cover existing investment needs in primary education and pre-school education in the years ahead?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u186	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u187	President, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! Thank you for that question. Finally, in Slovenia we have experienced what we have been looking forward to for a long time or what we have been working towards together, this is a plant in the growth of mentality. Now, however, we are in the middle of something that is disgruntled and some people are upset about the fact that there is now a need to provide additional funding for kindergartens and then there will certainly be a need for primary schools as well. Here I think we are gathered people who think that this is good for Slovenia and that we need to invest even more in this sector. It applies both to congregations and to the state. I must say that in this budget I have failed to succeed with this idea, in the kindergarten budget remains for infrastructure of a million 500, for elementary schools of 11 million. We did not make the call this year, not because I already spoke here in the National Assembly, because it seems to us that the existing law on the financing of municipalities in this area, which concerns education, is bad because it does not allow for the dynamics that the previous method of financing has allowed. The funds available would be taken into account for about four kindergartens, which are smaller if they are larger, not so much. Those chosen should also be carried out. However, we all know that there is always a matter in investment policy where this permit breaks down, and then, by the way, we would lose a third of a year or at least a quarter of the funds, which would be a great loss. So we didn't expect a change of law to happen. We still expect to convince all those responsible, especially the mayors, to support this issue only in this segment. Nevertheless, I must commend you, although there is a public impression that, as a rule, all mayors and municipalities do not invest enough in schools and primary schools. My impression is that it is not possible that it is just some congregations, some of them who have begun to think this way too late. I think it's going to get better in these environmental matters, too. Now we're going to the numbers. According to our data from the 11th of this month, all 3,300 children are rejected. Maybe this data is a little bit lower because we don't have enough data on how many entries we haven't even compared the numbers a little bit lower than 100, because it's still about waiting lists of children who are enrolled in multiple kindergartens. But still, let's say 3,000 and something. During the year, 2,500 more children are expected to join this list, which will come to this benefit later than on September 1. In the course of the year, the mayors, cities and municipalities will provide 1,420 vacancies. On the other hand, we now have 2,600 free seats. Thus, in some areas we have a deficit and some are free cities. The vacancies are mainly available in the wards of the second age period, it is said that now that this rise in birthrates is coming, there are mainly problems. This is part of the answer to the question. The measures available and to be provisional are an amendment to the Regulation by which we will equalise homogeneous and heterogeneous standards for sections of the first age period [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] ; the right periods for a period of one year, provided that the municipalities are actually working on the possibility of having these children in the second year. [[...]] So, we don't want to reduce [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u188	Unfortunately, now it's the end of time. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u189	According to the information collected by the municipalities, there are currently approximately 500 departments of kindergartens missing in Slovenia. According to your data, it's probably a little less, but each department is supposed to be worth about 300,000 euros. If it's 500, it would take 150 million to build all the rooms for the current needs. But we do know that birthrates are still growing. In addition, a number of primary schools are still not in line after the 1999 invitation to tender. Not that they didn't start thinking in time, as you said, if they were in 100th place, they haven't come up with co-financing by the state yet. And it's not the congregation's fault that they didn't come because they couldn't make that kind of investment themselves. At the coordination or negotiations at the Ministry of Finance on Friday, it was said by the Ministry that the average is not for investments, that it is only for current costs. However, the municipalities are rapidly drying their own resources so that they cannot provide their other investment funds. On the other hand, we know that the use of EU funds through cohesion funds is very poor. Would it not be possible to re-analyse or re-distribute these funds for the construction of primary schools and kindergartens, which I think would be very useful?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u190	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u191	I support this idea so that the country in the budget will allocate more resources for kindergartens and primary schools. There's always too little of that. That's the situation. I stopped at one point when this draft budget had to be closed, and the figures are about the same as they were in the past years. How to convince everyone that this is a priority is, of course, my job, my priority. And here I am asking for your support. The Slovenian public must also be convinced. I was on Friday at the opening of one kindergarten of four departments and they find that because of immigration and new births, which are already here, next year five sections are too small. So, they just opened up, full wards, five compartments are too small, that's right here near Ljubljana. How to do this is, of course, difficult for us from the Ministry, because we have 10 people to invest in this service. This can be done by congregations that can monitor matters. We can all do more financially together, but you know how it is. If there's no place to take it, then we can't put it in those kindergartens. But I agree with you that this is a problem. It's about European funds. We have proposed to the Ministry of Environment and Space that we should take priority in the energy renewal of schools. Unfortunately, they decided on a health field. We're still asking, we're pressing to take schools as a priority, but we're on it right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u192	Thank you. I now invite the Minister of Economy to join us, because mag. Borut Saiovic will ask him a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u193	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. My question to the Minister of Economy concerns one of the economic measures that can provide additional well-paid and quality jobs. This is a question of so-called new or abroad-called greenfield investments. Surely it is clear to us all that the crisis has shown sharp teeth in Slovenia and that we are prisoners as a result of unfulfilled structural reforms in the past. The Slovenian economy is vulnerable, highly export-related, and we have also accepted the fact that there is no magic wand to solve the crisis that could solve the problems that have arisen. We have stories, in more or less cases also inherited, IU Vrhnika, MIP, LTH, Mura, and Gorenje are also shaken. These are signs when it is truly clear to each of us that the joke is gone. The key question ahead of us is how to ensure quality jobs that will be paid with dignity, and not just the question of what will be the minimum wage, because it really is impossible to live and not to die. Therefore, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, it seems important that as a small economy we take advantage of all the opportunities offered to get out of this crisis as soon as possible and to further accelerate Slovenian economic development. We know that foreign investment can be an important factor in fostering economic development and growth. Therefore, the distinguished Minister, knowing that the Ministry is preparing these measures, I ask: In view of the commitment to promote new start-ups or greenfield investments, we are interested in: what measures or activities are being taken or will be carried out by the Ministry to promote these investments, in particular those that would constitute the opening up of new quality jobs, the supply of new knowledge, the flow of new technologies, the creation of external economies and consequently increase Slovenia's global competitiveness? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u194	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Dear Member, Mr. Saiovic! I would like to answer your question that the promotion of foreign direct investment, especially those that mean the inflow of new, fresh knowledge into the Slovenian economy, is extremely important, especially when the so-called "spillover" effect or the impact of the inflow of new technologies and technological knowledge into the Slovenian economy. The Ministry of Economy is preparing a new five-year programme for the period 2010-2014, based on current economic trends at home and in the world, reflecting an even more active policy of attracting foreign direct investment. Let me say that we already have an estimated €5 million in the 2009 budget for this purpose, and it is this Friday or last Friday 18 September that one of the calls for or applications for such foreign investments or direct incentives has been concluded. I would like to make it clear that the implementing institution and the public agency for entrepreneurship and foreign investment, which not only implements such incentives but also provides information and advisory services to foreign companies at all investment stages, is extremely important. For these purposes, the Ministry of Economy provides half a million euros a year from the budget. We expect that the share of foreign direct investment in the future will increase further, where we hope that we can open up a lot of new jobs in this way. One such possibility is that, mentioned earlier by the President of the Government, in the area of Prekmurje in addition to the two foreign direct investments that could open up this autumn, we are also talking in the area of Ljutomer, for example, with an investor who would provide 150 to 180 new jobs, as well as in other regions. Whenever there is an interest by a potential investor, we try to react and attract the investor directly or with the help of a public agency for entrepreneurship and foreign investment, with priority being given to those activities that generate higher added value, which are then somehow more permanent or more likely to remain in the Republic of Slovenia for a longer period. Various investors or potential investors have the opportunity to gain incentives from the country somewhere in the range of EUR 3 to 9 000 for each new job created, depending on the quality of their role, which is valued at the Public Agency for Entrepreneurship and Foreign Investment. This is how we try to attract them to open up as many quality jobs as possible. So I thank you for the question, and I also consider it a kind of further direction to further strengthen the activities in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u196	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u197	Thank you very much. I am pleased with the honourable Minister's response that the public can be convinced and heard that these measures are going to be important counter-crisis progress in the right direction and that not only is this area being considered, but it is already moving forward and working in concrete and effective terms. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we are committed to the future, to be an effective, global, competitive and, in our own research and development-based economy, the main vehicle for further development, both in terms of ensuring decent salaries for employees and also providing resources for a fair and social state. We are also convinced in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia that Slovenia, as a small economy, has all the conditions to follow the path of the Scandinavian countries we like to follow. Until then, we've got a lot of work to do. The answer, however, is precisely in promoting investment and innovation to increase added value, to promote the development of high-tech products and to increase exports, and we therefore support and welcome the package of measures already implemented by the Ministry with Mr Lahovnik at the head of the Commission in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u198	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please. You don't want to comment. Okay. Mr Rado Likar will ask the Minister of Finance a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u199	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! My question relates to the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2010 and 2011, which, according to my information, is based on the spring forecast of the economic trends of UMAR. In the short term, however, OMAR is expected to publish the autumn forecast of economic developments. I ask you, dear Minister: Will you adjust the draft budget accordingly in the event of poorer or different from the projected underlying macroeconomic indicators such as GDP, unemployment and so on? Are you going to insist, as in the first 2009 budget rebalancing, on old macroeconomic indicators, even though new ones were already known at the time of adoption, on poor macroeconomic indicators, which resulted in unjustified spending of the country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u200	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u201	Thank you very much for the current question. I have to be a little diplomatic, because I can't divulge the data before the official institute exposes them. Although the Government has not yet addressed the new economic forecasts prepared by the UMAR, we will certainly take these forecasts into account when preparing the prophets for the next two years and also in the budgetary memorandum and in the exit strategy. The deterioration mainly requires additional activities in the exit strategy. On Tuesday, 15 September, my colleagues attended a work presentation of new macroeconomic starting points. These are actually known, and we are aware of them and are already taking them into account in the preparation of the 2010 and 2011 State Budget proposal, which we will present to the Government probably this Thursday or perhaps at the next meeting, an extraordinary meeting next week, if necessary. The fact is that the picture for 2010 and 2011 is slightly worse than anticipated, which will also worsen our public financial picture, increase the deficit and require further efforts to re-establish the public financial balance. The fiscal rule that we set for 2010 and 2011 is a rule that binds to the expenditure side of the budget, i.e. the integral part, the real expenditure we derive from domestic resources, without earmarked resources, is said to be about nominally the same as in 2009. We are holding a stable amount of around €9 billion from domestic resources. We'll definitely stick to that. However, because of the new estimates, according to the first estimates we made, there will be a decrease of €170 million or 0.5% of GDP. Since the new macroeconomic forecasts are not yet official, I would not like to comment on them, but surely the assessment confirms that the crisis in 2009 has affected Slovenia more than the initial forecasts of Umar and will last a little longer than Umar originally planned. If the crisis starts to decline faster, the results will also be better than expected now.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u202	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u203	Thank you, Minister, for this part of the answer. In this regard, I ask you: Can we expect the government to come up with measures to relieve the Slovenian economy, which has already become completely uncompetitive due to high taxes? I am asking you this because you recently stated in a consultation that you intend to raise the VAT rate temporarily because you do not expect any higher revenues in the next period. Our economy, as well as our citizens, I think we're drowning in high taxes and asking the question: Who else will be able to pay taxes in the coming years? Does the government have a purpose or a scenario, instead of raising taxes, to take care of the expenditure side, such as by reducing public spending, and, on the other hand, by accelerating investment activities, thus improving the possibility of improving these macroeconomic indicators? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u204	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u205	Thank you very much. I must say that we have witnessed quite two tax reforms over the last five years. It was first implemented in 2004 and entered into force in 2005 and essentially raised net taxation in the Slovenian economy. It created macroeconomic savings. Together with the social partnership employed in the public sector, it contributed to the calming of inflation and Slovenia's entry into the European Union and then into the euro without any pressure on the fall of unemployment. The second tax reform was prepared in 2005 and entered into force in 2006. This has greatly burdened the Slovenian economy. The levy on paid salaries was abolished, which was conceived as a substitute source for the financing of the pension fund from the budget to reduce the contribution rates, the contribution to pension and disability insurance. This tax would, on the same basis as it was when it was still in force, bring about 800 million this year and around 900 million more funds next year. And that big hole comes from here. This year, we're gonna have a billion and 800 deficits. For such a crisis, this deficit is not significant, it is around 5% of gross domestic product and is on average like in more successful European countries, such as Germany and Austria. The second year, if this goes as well as the UMAR forecasts, the deficit is likely to be slightly higher and then the improvement will begin to decrease. In addition, in 2006 we reduced effective taxation in income, it is said that the rates of taxation for income have been reduced and gradually the rates of corporate income tax have also begun to decline. These will also decrease slightly in the second year, so you will also have some "joy" from this, if I may say under the slogans. At the same time, there will be a reduction in VAT repayment with January, which will further affect the slightly better situation of those who have much meaning to them. I must say that in an economy which is at the same level of development as Slovenia, it is said that our economy is considered that, by lowering taxes, it is not possible to gain much competitiveness. Competitiveness is gained through the introduction of new products, new technologies, market expansion, new approaches. What is needed here is the strategic incentives provided by the state. And we've been doing all of this since the first rebalancing process. A number of calls for quality development promotion in Slovenia's largest exporters and even in a small economy are taking place. I'm an optimist myself, as far as this is concerned, the improvement will follow. Everything that would be [[...]] [[End warning sign]] They'll be part of the exit strategy. We are currently planning to keep a certain spending limit high by fiscal rules. We expect to see part of economic growth [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u206	Thank you. Mag. Majda Potrat will ask the Minister of Education and Sport a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u207	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers and Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! Mr Minister, I ask you a question: How will the Ministry of Education and Sport provide modern information and communication equipment to educational institutions under adverse financial and economic circumstances? To what do I base my question? In Slovenia, at least what I know and what I can rely on, a comparative analysis of the equipment of Slovenian schools with computer technology was carried out at the Faculty in Maribor. It is true that these results are measured in 2005. One year younger is a survey prepared for 27 European countries, 25 European Union members, Norway and Iceland. If we look at this data, then we can find that Slovenia is very high in terms of the number of schools which have a link, the broadband that gives students the opportunity to integrate into the Internet and similar things. We're close to 84% or 82% in high school even over 90%. The highest is 95% included. That's how much we're above average. But if we look at another data, how many computers are per 100 students, then the data is significantly worse. In 2006, it's written here, 8 computers are coming to 100 students. However, the European average for these countries under investigation is 11. In addition to the fact that accessibility is reduced because a smaller number of computers and the need for a larger number of computers is visible, the first research mentioned above shows that we are based on the purchase of equipment rather than on the rental. The third issue I did not touch, however, is the issue of teacher education for the use of modern information and communication technology in teaching. However, there are answers to how many teachers are actually using modern technology, significantly worse. If we continue to look at the difference between what they use to prepare for school and what they actually learn, the difference is considerable. From all of this actually comes my question, and to answer you already have a nice answer. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] Thank you. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u208	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u209	Mr Vice-President, honourable Member, Members. Thank you for asking. This is certainly an area that Slovenia has given it quite a bit of attention to. When we talk about whether that's enough, we can say that it would be better if there were more. The Ministry makes a total of 7.4 million euros in 2009 from the national budget of 3.6 million and from the ESF of 3.8 million, i.e. for information, communication, technology and equipment. It's about actions that run at the same time. Electronic writing and preparation of textbooks, training of teachers for the use of technology and invitations to schools for technology, for technology acquisition, such as computers, laptops, projectors, digital cameras, video cameras, interactive boards, videoconferencing equipment. In the past school year, for example, the school in Bistrica near Sotla made contact with a student who was unable to attend school through videoconference. This matter is going well globally in Slovenia. Even during the crisis, we did not reduce the attention and resources to this end. In my opinion, it is our job to fill the gap in the field of electronic textbooks. However, we are also working to create, as we have a learning fund, a computer fund, laptops that children who do not have computers at home would be able to borrow at school, and in this way they could use electronic materials and learn to use the latest technology and internet connections in their own experience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u210	Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u211	Thank you very much, Minister, for this part of the answer. In one part you have already indicated special care for children with special needs, how teaching or learning can make modern technology easier for them. I would like to ask: Are you planning any more specific measures regarding teacher education and by promoting the use of equipment in schools? Gerlic's 2005 survey suggests that only 50% of the equipment at school is used. I've tried to explain this before, in fact, that teachers use more computer equipment and use it all in preparation for schooling, but they use less computer equipment and this modern technology in learning on their own. Of course, we don't have a hard time resisting statistics right now. As it is said, the data are old, but still: what about the use of European funds for this part, because it is probably not all from our national resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u212	Thank you. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u213	Thanks for the extra question. 3.8 million euros go from the European Social Fund and 3.6 from the national budget. Teacher training has been systematic since 2005 since data were available. This is where the Ministry was formed, in my opinion, a good team that runs it. Looking at schools, primary and secondary, I have always seen the utility. And I saw that in particular the elementary school in some peripheral parts, as I said earlier, Bistrica ob Sotla, then there is the elementary school Podčetřetek, the second school Maribor, the Jesenice High School - what I saw is amazing. There they use things in English, teachers even use them in the first triad. So, as I can see, these things run well. Where there is a problem and where there has been a fallout, there are some schools where they have not responded to calls, where they do not even have equipment and therefore cannot use it. After this review, as I do and as we did at the Ministry, this equipment is much more used than it was years ago. Also because new people are coming, younger people who are already ready to use such funds in advance. There are also students who are more accustomed to this type of teaching, so that things are running relatively well. The measures we are planning in this area continue to be training, also through the European Fund. Above all, it is necessary to find a way to those schools where they do not follow calls. In those environments - right now I've ordered my colleagues to look at which schools are fed, to find a mechanism to get us to these schools past the invitations, so that we can give them this and commit teachers, teachers and administrators at the same time to use it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u214	Thank you. Ms Eva Irgl will ask the Minister of Justice and the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u215	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister, for justice and for work, family and social affairs! Months ago, we witnessed the discovery of a mass grave of extrajudicially murdered people at the Huda Cave in Laska. That's when the victims were also dug up. Today, after media coverage, this excavation was stopped. He was stopped by a mining inspector who was supposed to refer to so-called security reasons. Some data also indicate that there will be no funding in the coming budgets for the following years to continue to dig up these and other victims of mass post-war beatings. That is why I ask you, dear Minister, the following questions in this regard: First time. When will funds be provided to remedy the alleged security deficiencies that led to the mining inspector's decision to stop the work at the Hudi Cave? When will the mining inspector's decision be lifted as a result? Another time. When will the victims in the Hudi Cave continue to be dug? Third time. In future budgets, will you provide the necessary resources to continue the excavation of victims in the Hudi Cave and other already recorded graves? I thank you both in advance for the answers to these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u216	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Justice Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Your Honor. In one piece, I can answer your question about matters that fall within the jurisdiction of the department I run. This exhumation of victims takes place within the framework of a judicial procedure. In this case, the judicial authorities shall be those with full powers to decide whether and to what extent this excavation will be carried out. They are investigating the suspicion of criminal service. And since it is an open court procedure led by a competent investigating judge, the Minister of Justice cannot assess or otherwise intervene in these decisions of the court. All decisions on the scope and method of excavation at this stage may be taken only by him, i.e. only by an investigative judge to whom a specific case has been assigned. With regard to the resources in the budget for this excavation, let me say that the material resources for such cases are provided in the budget of the competent court. The courts are independent budget consumers, their funds are planned and also coordinated within the budget of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. According to the information we have at the Ministry, in this regard, there is no problem once before the Supreme Court informed us that, before we prepared the reply to your colleague Gorenak's written question, that the competent District Court in Celje has sufficient resources for material business, given that the average use of the Court's funds is only 33% of the allocated resources. In any event, even if it turns out that these funds could begin to be in short supply, the Court has the opportunity to request an appropriate release from the budget reserve. Your friend Svetlik will answer to you in the rest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u218	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u219	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! With regard to further work at this grave in the Hudi Cave, let me point out that we have prepared a draft material for the Government, which we will coordinate with the Minister. In it, we will propose to the Government that further procedures be carried out within available resources to ensure a decent burial of the remains of the victims and the arrangements for the war cemetery. It is a land register on plots that are planned to do so, but also for the construction of the tomb itself and the corresponding marking and access to it. In view of the Authority's decision to suspend the works, I should point out that the documentation prepared by the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine is also in preparation. This documentation will hopefully be confirmed no later than October this year and will then also ensure smooth and secure work ahead. However, we cannot go to the discretion of the inspectors who have found it necessary to ensure more secure work in this cave. With regard to the issue of resources, let me say that we have these resources for this area in our budget, but we have to decide on the priorities in these parts in the first place. These works in the Devil's Cave have, in fact, been at the forefront of the activities that our sector is carrying out.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u220	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u221	I both thank you for these answers to my questions, but I would like to raise another question that is now taking place in the last week. I think you're aware of the matter that is supposed to take place in Košnica near Celje, where there is a large postwar cemetery where civilians are buried. I must say that the Commission for Hidden Cemeteries, the government's said commission, described this cemetery, and a week ago they were supposed to start filling this cemetery. I don't know if I have the exact information, but I was wondering if you knew anything about it. However, it is very interesting that we should start to water this cemetery, and on the other hand, even the names of the victims in these tombs are accurate, at least some of them have, and on the basis of these names we could also do DNA analysis to confirm who the victims are in these tombs. And today, instead of starting this procedure, we're supposed to be filling this cemetery. Please, maybe if one of the responsible answers that question.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u222	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u223	Well, if I may add to this, now, specifically, what is the current situation on this site, I cannot tell you, but I can say that whenever a specific person is a specific citizen who has an interest in having a further check at a specific location, then we will respond accordingly. This will certainly not be overlooked, but of course it is a matter of programming; the services they detect, probe and then regulate the ones they give priority to.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u224	Thank you. Mr Vito Rožej will ask the Minister of Public Administration a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u225	Thank you so much for the president's word. Dear Minister, other ministers, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. There are probably few people who are more aware than you of the fact that in the times in which we are, this country must make sure that its public administration is cost-effective and not wasteful. In recent times, it has been possible to track the statements made by your predecessor, former Minister of Public Administration, Dr Gregor Virant, who claims that this number of employees in the public sector has increased by about 1,500, while during the period of his ministry this number is expected to decrease. Today, something has been said on this subject with my colleague Marinič, in particular as regards the alleged increase in this mandate. Of course, I am also interested in the second part of this issue, which is what it is like to be employed in the public sector in the time of the previous government. Of course, I expect you to know the data for the so-called narrower part of the public administration, without employees in the municipalities and legal entities whose founders are the municipalities, although of course it is also possible to save in this area, although this is not your responsibility. In the debate I mentioned earlier, something, at least in the interlocutors of other Members, also mentioned employment at the expense of the EU Presidency. And that's why I'm interested: How many public servants were employed during the previous government from EU funds, or were they guided by some specific methodology? Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u226	Irma Pavlinič Krebs, Minister of Public Administration, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u227	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you for the questions raised by the honourable Members and Members. Yeah, there you go. At the time of this government, we have indisputably identified and also informed the public that in this country, the number of employees who receive salaries under the Public Sector Wages Act and are employed both in the State Administration, together with the uniformed work, and both in public institutions, non-economic public services, health care, education and so on, that this country does not have a methodology to answer you today how many people are employed. The number of persons follows Apes according to a methodology that is very clear. The methodology covers all those paid under the Public Sector Wages Act, including the municipalities, so that I cannot tell you this moment separately for the municipalities, but the number of employees is calculated by calculating the number of employees on the basis of the wages charged for the hours paid, including overtime, including on-calls, converted for full-time, i.e. 8 hours, the number of employees. This is all the information with which he can answer this question right now because he has not been monitoring others or the former Minister and the Ministry of Public Administration. They closely monitored data for the civilian part of the state administration and for the uniformed part of the state administration. This is a total of 34,136 employees, that was 1. 12. 2004 when they took power. And they cut them to 34.087, so the circus pair of ten, and they said, by one percent, we were able to cut public sector employees. They were deceiving. There are over 150,000 employees in the public sector. And after hours, it turns out to be the next one. In December 2004, the previous government took over the number of hours converted into employees by 150.178. When she gave us her mandate, it was 156.381. So, at this time, if we were to charge the payload for 6,203 new employees. Overtime or on-call hours are even better paid. And the pressure on wages has absolutely increased with the monthly average increase from 2004 to 2008 by 129 new employees. When I discovered these methodological shortcomings, we did everything, saving both in the state administration, and we left the increase in the number of employees in the police, the military and the administration for the enforcement of criminal sanctions, because it is unacceptable that the previous government has done nothing. To strengthen these services, it was necessary. In the state administration, we have already reduced the civil work of employees, we have almost half employed cabinets because the previous government has hired us in the ministries for an indefinite period of time, almost 60 of them have been such, and has reduced our space to avoid going beyond these common human resources plans. And as we look at the IAPES data today, in seven months, we, with all these measures, found that our number of employees in the public sector increased by 177 between December 2008 and July 2009. And Minister Virant, when he spoke and used the same data, said that a thousand and five hundred of them were hired according to the APPES methodology, simply not corrected, said neither the methodology nor said the correct data. We did not take over this government in November, but after November 21st, but in November there was an increase in these hours, because obviously, before they left, they paid, I don't know how many hours, on duty, as if this month had hired a thousand five hundred new people, and immediately in December it fell again because it was a one-off data. European funds, such data in these employees, at least as regards the methodology of the Ministry of Public Administration, are explicitly excluded. However, in 2007 they were eighteen, covered by [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] also officers co-financed by European funds to establish the Schengen border. [[...]] Today we have 300 and five hundred co-financed for projects from funds [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Mr. Rogers, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u229	Thank you for the information so far, Madam Minister. What I managed to do or what seemed particularly interesting to me was, in November of last year, about 60 dedicated cabinets were left in different ways, according to various ministries, as regular jobs for an indefinite period of time. However, I did not fully understand how many of these, I will say, European jobs were later transferred to the Ministry's regular services for an indefinite period of time. And I'd like to ask you for that answer. Thank you very much in advance.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u230	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Irma Pavlinič Krebs.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u231	Okay. Thank you very much. The Ministry of Public Administration shall maintain a separate record for public servants working on European projects and covering their salaries. This is generally 75% to 85% of the European Structural Funds, i.e. the percentage of wages if covered by these funds. Unfortunately, I can't give you this information for an indefinite period of time, but the number of employees who are heavily financed by European funds was 1. 1. 2004 - 12, 1. 1. 2005 - 143, 1. 1. 2006 - 325, 1. 1. 2007 - 618, as I said earlier, was largely co-financed by the police, but this year this co-financing ceased and Minister Kresalov had to ensure the establishment of this system, to ensure personal income from the integral resources for the part of the people who carried out these tasks. This was left to us to do now. 1. 1. 2008 - 198, 1. 1. 2009 - 340 and 1. 8. 2009 - 355. It is people who work mainly on drawing up and preparing projects financed by the European Structural Funds, and in this part these people do not have the resources of an integrated budget. It is also of the interest of this government to prepare as many projects as possible, so that when we need additional co-workers, an integral part of the price of this project is also a staff member, who then leads it, and in this part we do not take on integral budgetary resources, which are extremely modest in this part as well. For the municipalities, when you asked me, we received how they were employed in municipal administrations in the period 2004-2008, which is no problem of any government. Here too, according to the JAPES data and methodology, as if the number of employees had increased 585 - in four years. In short, we are setting up a methodology where we will be able to provide the honourable Members with significantly more relevant information in the future than we do today, if this country really wants to lead the right employment policy, unfortunately it does not and none of the governments so far have prepared such useful data.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u232	Ms Minister of Culture Maja Širca Ravnikar will ask Mr Ivan Grill the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u233	Thank you very much for the word, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Madam Secretary! In early September, you issued a decision at the Ministry, or you issued a decision to all those who applied for the call for programme content co-financing, and this decision also gave you an answer. Of the 336 and 346 applications received in due time, 68 were approved for co-financing of content, and 268, you refused or around 268. Many of those whom you rejected also referred to me, expressing the belief that the commission that selected these applications did not work as professionally as it was presented to the public both by your Ministry and by the Commission itself; that it was decided, for sure, by bias, that there was a high likelihood that there were political motives, there were probably political pressures, because it is unreasonable that such arguments, which the Commission then cited in its explanations, could also be agreed on. For they are "unfounded", it is evident that they did not know even the exact contents of those who applied. Thus, this conclusion here is that this commission acted professionally, impartially, certainly incorrect. That is why I ask you, Madam Secretary, first of all: Who were the members of this commission? On what criteria did you choose them? First of all, what were the criteria taken into account by the Commission in allocating these co-financed projects by the Ministry of Culture? Since I will not have time now, in the second part of the question I will also give a few concrete examples where, of course, I will also try to clarify this argument further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u234	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u235	Thank you for the question and the following a comprehensive answer, because you also need to complement your question with information that it was not just one call, but that we published and also presented the results of two calls: the so-called A call for proposals, which is about co-financing the programming content of the media and the call for proposals, which are about co-financing the programme content of those local, regional, student and non-profit programmes which have the status of non-profit activities within the media or so-called programmes of particular importance. The first call, the one on media content, called for the value of EUR million 400 thousand, dealt with about 300 - or both of them jointly addressed 400 media; a huge amount of media. Another call for programme content for non-profit programmes, which is about 100. Of these, 52 were positively resolved, 11 were on reserve, 33 were rejected. Of those where the call for media programming content was made, the so-called Call for A programme was 68 positive, 4 on the reserve sheet were still today and 274 were rejected or rejected. I must admit that a number of people, when we had a question before us whether to publish this call or not, have pleaded that this call should not have been made public or should not have been published at all because the Court of Auditors found that in 2006, 2007 and 2008 the co-financing of the media in this way was reckless and that we need to correct it. Of course, the law that we know, the revisions to the media law and the law also tells us under which conditions this money for co-financing the programming content of the media is shared in general, said that we must and, of course, also in the light of the fact that we are living in a crisis where media houses, in particular those that are actually non-profit-making, have problems. I must say that the Commission, which you are asking who was in it, has dealt with these 400 applications in the summer, because it has dealt with them with them with a great deal of commitment. For the first time, she presented her findings at a press conference, and for the first time, it was not the first time or the first time, but in the past it was not the case that every programme or every request that was approved or rejected or submitted to a reserve sheet would have an assessment and explanation. The Court of Auditors has rightly observed that in the past the members of the Commission will write something on some lists that are not available, have not done any reasoning with them, and, of course, have also given inappropriate consideration to the decision or decision. And in this very hall, that's what's been asked many times. After all, the evaluation, which is a condition for handling these calls, has not always been made in a timely manner or, as the Court of Auditors has found, has been incorrectly and incorrectly paid, which now requires us to request funds back. In short, I am talking about the great competence of the commission, which was composed of: Dr. Marko Milosavljevic, who also led the committee, from the FDV, Dr. Jože Vogrinc from FF, from the Faculty of Philosophy or from the University of Ljubljana, Dr. Melita Polar Kovacič, Mr. Jure Apich and Mrs Mojca Planšek from Maribor. As I have said, the Commission has clearly presented the results, identified and clarified the criteria, and also said that if they did, a number of projects would have reservations if there were no crisis to finance it at all, because projects were not as high or as high as they would have expected to be. The basics, however, were in law, regulations and rules that we fully respected.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u236	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u237	Thank you very much for these explanations. See, this statement that this commission did not really work as professionally as it was presented in the public, I will say with the following cases, I will not say names, but it is about two media - one is radio and one is a printed medium with a lot of listening, with a lot of reading, with content, educational, cultural, a lot of music of all kinds and their projects, which were tanning on the invitation, were rejected by the following explanation: "The project is not particularly original and demanding." I don't think that's at this level of commission. On the other hand, it is surprising that, following the first decision, this Commission chose 50 of all the applicants, and on the basis of the complaints, the Commission then approved an additional 18 and placed four on the waiting list. And what is more important here is to stress that those projects that were placed in the first 100th place after the initial election were all of a sudden in the 68s quota, which is to really think to everyone who has applied here, that there have certainly been political pressures or political upheavals here, and that this commission has certainly been making a biased decision here. I also feel that, first of all, at the Ministry of the Interior, we should really lead these calls by getting these funds from those media that provide our society with really such content that it is right for the state to also [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] supports and that they benefit entire societies. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u238	Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u239	I completely agree with you. I agree 100% with you, so the law will change. The problems in which the members of the commission were members were, as they told me or as they told the public, because I repeat, they publicly presented their work, they were huge, and the pressures, they said they were huge. After all, a number of signatures, addresses, support from political and other types - I believe they were and faced it themselves. Therefore, they insisted on acting professionally, independently and abstracted such comments. Of course, every call at the Ministry of Culture in both the past and today - I suppose in the past too - has the possibility of identifying new facts in the appeal phase. And this has also happened, at each call, 10, 15, 20% of the money is left for those who could, with additional arguments, justify with new content what the commission might have overlooked. But this happened not only in this invitation to tender, it happens at every invitation, because no one can spend 100% of the money on the invitation to tender if new facts arise. And this is where it happened; even more so, there has also been an additional influx of funds due to the facts that have been expressed. But the criteria in which the members of the commission were caught were horrendous to them and they did not really know how to float between the Court of Auditors' findings, which was asked whether the Ministry is prudently using money in the past, when there is no evidence, when there is neither evaluation nor when it expects us now to discover it backwards - and it is difficult to do so, very difficult! The end of the contract is met and the objectives are met if they are achieved. In short, it is necessary to change the way in which media support is supported in a way that does not mean that the main criterion in the allocation of money will be to ensure regular and objective and balanced representation of political action and positions of various organisations, individuals, positions and opposition. This is not the goal as the sole highest criterion. We will also certainly find a more efficient, transparent and more cost-effective way in the revisions of the media law, which will also have greater effects in the media itself, and also not get them into the problems they have encountered in the past, and perhaps today, with such a call as the law you have adopted in the previous period.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u240	Thank you very much. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go, Mr. Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u241	Thank you very much again. On the basis of Article 246(2) of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that a general debate be held on this issue. I am of the opinion that the answers that would have been received in this debate would, after all, have been of great help to the Minister. The law, which is likely to be in preparation, will have to be written in such a way that all these dilemmas that are now emerging will also be resolved. This can be useful, and I hope that the coalition will also support this, that we will have this debate and that, finally, we will talk here about all the things that have taken place in this area, or that it is right to do so in some way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Your proposal, Mr Grill, will be voted by the National Assembly tomorrow in the vote. Mr Milenko Ziherl has the floor to ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Milan Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u243	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. A nice greeting to all present, especially the government representatives! In the chain of relations or on the relation of the producer-processor-trader and consumer are observed in the construction of prices of some imbalances which can seriously endanger or introduce into the system of agricultural processing and production serious disturbances already observed on the market. For many in Slovenia produced agricultural crops are already exported or disappearing in some way, whether it is livestock, milk, neighbouring countries or somehow lost track of them. This raw material is still needed by the Slovenian market. The final result is that the farmer, that is, the farmer, is barely coming and could not survive without the agricultural subsidies he receives. Somewhere, we have heard information that in farm income, the subsidy represents almost a left-wing share. Of course, it can be discussed that our farms are too small and so on, but the problem remains. The next one in the chain is the processor. Since Slovenia's independence, the food processing industry has been in constant trouble. It has a very low yield, uninteresting to the investor, has not been updated, has not been rationalised. Since we are a member of the EU, since the free movement of goods and services, we have also faced very severe competition from larger food processing companies. However, we note in this chain that the trade sector, sometimes also through cartel negotiations, is cutting off too much bread, and might point to looking for ways to solve the problem first on this segment. Of course, at the end of the day, the consumer who buys too much food, sometimes has no access to more suppliers, to free choice, and is, like the last article of this chain, as deprived as the first article, that is, the producer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u244	Thank you. Mr. Minister Pogačnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u245	Thank you, Mr. Ziherl, for that question. In any event, the Minister of Agriculture is aware of the importance of the relevant price conditions or shares and is monitoring this situation during production, processing and trade. However, it must be said that direct mechanisms do not actually have an impact on this area. We have also discussed this with the Office for the Protection of Competition. In two cases, the Competition Protection Office acted only when it can prove certain irregularities and otherwise does not have any enforcement power in this case. Slovenia meets in its specific, for example, agricultural production with certain specificities. This has already been mentioned in fragmentation, but I think that, at the right direction, the right strategy for the development of agriculture can go beyond this content. Therefore, in preparing all these bases that need to be made in order to overcome the situation that you, Mr Ziherl, have rightly pointed out, it is that we must first - first - we have taken up land agricultural policy and some of the accompanying institutions to regulate them. You will soon get these laws into Parliament. That's one thing. The second is that, within the framework of the strategy, we find out in some way what are the priorities that are worth developing and which we will adapt to in the future, they are better exploited - the actions of the common agricultural policy. There's not enough of that. Together with our resources, it amounts to 391 million. We draw it well, but I still think things have been under-directed. That is how we want with the right priorities and taking into account natural data, this is the first to create a certain processing in places where this processing is actually the cheapest, so I mention not only the local supply, for which there is a lot of opportunity, but also the natural property, where certain things can be produced at low cost if you place these crops in the right environment, then also with a greater emphasis on promotion. This generic promotion law, which we have previously prepared, has been launched in a new way, will be completed in autumn, with the agreement of the food and processing industry, as well as other producers, to co-finance and contribute, in accordance with European legislation, this part, which is needed to bring the law to life. This would also contribute to areas where we believe that spending is not sufficient to increase consumption. A few promotional packages are running. This is how a major European Union project for increased milk consumption, as well as for the promotion of white meat, for poultry meat runs. As regards self-sustainment, as far as possible in Slovenia, it is necessary to take into account the natural characteristics of Slovenia and adapt to this. I think there's quite a few possibilities in the area of gardening. It would be difficult to speak, for example, to increase self-sustainment in the area of milk, where we have problems with surpluses, because we have a self-sustainment index of 130 and over. And it will probably be necessary to consider at some point that if we want to get this into some better economic framework, we will reduce some production. So, they're mechanisms, they're preparing measures. Of course, this is not just for Slovenia. After 2004, we are part of the global market and the whole of Europe is facing it. We discussed this at two ministerial conferences to overcome it. However, in a different way, by somehow taking into account these specifics that we have in each country and by allowing in some areas where production capacity is more difficult, cost reduction, which is what we are also doing within the Government. More than that, for example, European countries have said that they are trying to enforce some codes of good practice, it is said, what is possible is unusual, unpopular - more ethics and more needed in these relations to respect domestic production, this is not. But nevertheless, we are developing certain dialogues, such as with manufacturers. We have already established such a dialogue with dairy farmers on the price of milk, so that milk prices have stabilised over the last three months. We are in the ninth place in Europe at the price of milk and do not show any further decline. There are many ways to do things with mutual understanding, real mechanisms that are forced and not in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u246	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Ziherl.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u247	Well, I agree with the Minister that the subject is very broad and problematic. I welcome the fact that, after 1993, he is back in preparation, only after such a long time, that he is in preparation and next year a strategy for the development of agriculture will be in the broad public debate. I agree that this issue is the same in the countries of the European Union, but we cannot go beyond some of the facts that are Slovenian specifics, so that it revolutionises the report, I think in the News that the farmer received for a 500 kg older cow with more than 200 kilograms of usable meat 30 euros. And if this is milk production, if he wanted to buy a dog, he needed 10 of these cows, but he still couldn't buy it; for 300 euros you get nothing, with his cousin they're from 600 euros away. I received information from some of the council that it was an emergency slaughter, that for the first time animal torture was a 80 - mile [80 km] drive from the center. The case of cattle with a broken leg, where 10 kilograms of meat was maximum waste due to internal bleeding - but a young bull, probably more than 200 kilograms of meat - and they got 60 euros. Then someone else may have to push the trade, i.e. I saw the news from a neighbouring country, but i believe that there is something similar in our stock markets that wait for them on Mondays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and then they buy leftovers and sell them at the same shameless European prices to us. And there are even more of these cases of bad practice. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] and here are probably other services to review, verify all these irregularities that are happening and facilitate [[...]] [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u248	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, would you like an additional answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u249	Thank you very much. I'd like to answer the following. There are some cases that are very specific. For example, it is the buying up of old cattle, old cows; almost butchers are not interested in this, and more or less can use Austrian butchers. This leads to transport costs, and it is theoretically possible for such a purchase to have minimal costs, because we need to cover some other costs, such as costs, such as checks and the like. With regard to slaughters in force - this is very difficult to assess. Depends on the use of the quantities of this meat and contamination, so each case is special. In this area, I think we should make more of a cooperative effort in the first place. Some cooperatives are more active in this area, farmers have fewer problems with this, others, of course, are less interested and more market-oriented. For example, we have great problems with buying horse meat, which is a pasture animal, which can make good use of the surface in just growing - say, the white landscape is already such - we are trying to find a niche, and neither cooperatives nor buyers are interested in establishing such a chain. I think that a more quality and organised and more active partnership should help, because, in fact, that is their purpose. However, it is interesting that, for example, milk prices have fallen by 22%, with the price of raw milk in trade rising by 2% and the price of yogurt rising by even three and a half percent. These are the contents that can be very difficult to influence. Only in cases where integration is demonstrated can the Office of Competition Protection act. This is a very difficult issue and I think that all other mechanisms are more useful than trying to deal with it. Even when we talked to other ministers about the application of this ethical code - this may also be an example that is not allowed. For example, Bulgaria is due to this before the European Court of Justice. This is a challenging situation. We're working on it. We believe that it is through the application of these mechanisms, strategies, some things in this area that are partially regulated.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u250	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! I'd like you, Mr. Ziherl, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u251	Given that the subject is very broad and time-consuming, I would nevertheless suggest that we hold a broader debate under Article 246 which may already be prepared as an introduction to this agricultural development strategy or look at when the time would be best. Since the cases have already been mentioned by the Minister himself, the horserace could be discussed again in ten minutes. In the places where I live, horses were also given out, but at one time it was the most painful industry. I think they had two stallions where I know them - they don't have anything else. Currently, in our environment, eggs, milk - down, and similar things are most worth producing. Now, let's see if the grass goes out and there's a lot of cattle left out - who's going to eat the lawns, how are we going to do the surroundings? Our congregation, for example, is in danger of growing up in the field, and it all accumulates with one another. I think it really takes a broader debate. I would therefore like to propose once again that this should be done in the near future on the basis of Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Your proposal to discuss this at the next meeting of the National Assembly will be decided tomorrow in the framework of the votes. I would ask you, although I have no particular hope of success: the President of the National Assembly has specifically warned you, at the turn of the agenda, that there are no additional questions and new questions at the second stage, but only a proposal to complement the answer. If possible, stick to this as much as possible, as you usually ask three or five new questions. The word has magic. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, who will raise a question of the delegation to the absent Minister of Health, Mr Borut Miklavčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u253	Thank you for your word. A respected choir! I hope that Mr Minister will be able to answer my question at the next meeting, which is the following. For survival purposes, according to the Ministry of Labour, an adult would need EUR 562 per month. However, we know that the large proportion of pensions is significantly lower than that of the minimum net wage of only EUR 459, that the average compensation for unemployment is EUR 431 and that the first-age social assistance is only EUR 227. Even though more than a hundred thousand people do not receive income to survive, most of them still have to pay for medical bills. When an individual wants to use health care, he does not get these unless he has paid about 300 euros a year for mutual health insurance, Adriatica or Triglav. Anyone who doesn't pay can't be treated. This says that it would be difficult to say that Slovenia is a social state, even though it is enshrined in our constitution. Obstacles to the poor and less wealthy in accessing health services have been created because the Slovenian Health Insurance Institute, Health Ministers and Governments have continued to be insensitive to the social situation of people from compulsory health insurance to private citizens since 1992. The Ministry proposes that the rights of the population be reduced again from public funds in order to address the financial problems of the institution arising from high medical wages. Access to health services would be further reduced for the poor and the less wealthy. They would be even more vulnerable to social security. At the same time, health money is not being used effectively enough. I therefore ask the distinguished Minister: Will the Ministry of Health and the Institute address the financial problems of medical bills by means of measures to better organise health care? In this particular case, I stress the poor organisation and the high level of payment for doctors' on-calls, the payment of taxes and contributions to health services costs at the rate of health services at the rate of the flat, the low burden on employers' contributions to the health of employees, and the multitude of conflicts of interests of employees in health institutions that undermine the effectiveness of health care and endanger the health safety of the population. I would like to thank the Minister in advance for the reply I am expecting at the next meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u254	Thank you very much. Mr Minister Miklavčič will give you an oral answer at the next meeting of the National Assembly. Mr Igor Lukšić, Minister for Education and Sport, will ask Member Milan Čadež a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u255	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greeting on my behalf, distinguished minister and ministers. Law imposes on municipalities a type of obligation to finance kindergartens, pre-school education and primary education. I come from a sycophelic area where we are at the very top of our race, and from this point of view, I have quite a few questions. We know that in accordance with Article 56 of the Law on primary school transport of pupils to primary school burdens the municipality, as well as additional programmes, morning and morning care, as well as investments in school facilities. Since the criteria themselves are increasingly sharper, all of this remains at the burden of the congregation. According to Article 28 of the Law on Kindergartens, municipalities are also obliged to pay a considerable difference in the price between parental and municipal payments, including up to 50% or up to 75%; and also the material costs and means of investment maintenance, which are increasing every year. We know that the number of children attending kindergartens is also significantly increasing as a result of the measures taken by the State. I myself believe that other criteria, such as the level of birthrate in the congregation and the number of children involved in kindergartens, should be taken into account when calculating the appropriate consumption of the municipality. Above all, because of the change in legislation itself. So I ask you: how long and when does the country intend to increase co-financing in the construction of kindergartens? When will the country include as an additional criterion in the financing of municipalities a percentage of the increase in birthrates in the municipality? How will the state help municipalities whose adequate consumption remains the same, while the commitments made in the implementation of pre-school education programmes are increasing as a result of increasing the involvement of children, increasing the salaries of employees and building new infrastructure? Thank you in advance. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u256	Thank you very much. Minister Igor Luksic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u257	Mr President, Vice-President, fellow Ministers, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament. Thank you, fellow Member, for the question. Gardens are a problem, we have seen this, we already have two questions on this subject today, but it seems right for me to keep things in order as they are; so that the municipalities care for the schools and primary schools. Here we have a conceptual question: look, whether we take it from the municipal budget or from the state budget, it's our money. It's not so real in this Slovenia - and we'll take it from - if you ask me anyway. It is right that the congregation plans for kindergartens and primary schools, and it is right that it plans in such a way that such problems do not arise. And in most congregations, this is not happening. When it comes to birthing, when it comes to birthing, you will then determine whether this birthrate is genuine or imported by birth. This is a question which, in my view, is inappropriate for us to place it as a criterion. But it is not a problem, you have raised the question, my job is to process it, we will examine it, we will put it on the table, we will also talk to municipalities where nativity does not grow, but falls, and we will also discuss it in cooperation with a colleague covering the area of local self-government. What measures are we planning? In my previous reply, I said that the share of funds remains largely the same, i.e. one million five hundred in kindergartens, eleven in primary schools. And here I repeat my wish that even more of these funds, with the Minister of Finance, we both cultivate this desire, only zero is in the municipal budget, we are also limited in the state budget. And this is where the priorities need to be settled. As a school minister, I support giving primary priority to funding in kindergartens and primary schools, but as a school minister, I am not so interested in whether it increases here and there, or only in the municipality or only in the country. I'd like it to grow all over the place. Just, look, when we're covering up with some blanket, you need to know how long it is. This is a question for a fellow Finance Minister who must eventually draw up the whole story; just as the mayors must, he or the whole government must. And if we say otherwise, if I go to the beginning now. We have here in Slovenia on the construction of infrastructure of a great appetite. Nothing's wrong - I'm glad. It is also necessary to know in the long term that these matters need to be maintained and some have been slightly calculated and therefore there is no money in some budgets. I think it is wrong that we also drive the state budget in this direction to work for at least the next five years only for interest. So we are here on the same boat, with roughly the same responsibility when it comes to voting on the budget or responsibility is primarily in the National Assembly. It is right that we have appetites, but let us see what can be done about these resources that we have at our disposal both in the congregations and in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u258	Thank you very much. Mr. Chadjez will ask for a supplement to the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u259	Thanks for the answer. I've seen you reply very comprehensively, but not quite specifically. We must also be aware that there are more than 200 municipalities in the country. We're not in exactly the same position. I've pointed it out myself. It's a birthright. We know that the bishoply area has been at the very top for many years, as far as this is concerned, and all data is measurable. He wanted to go this way because we do not have all the same problems in the congregation, and there are no problems. These are "sweet" problems, believe me, and it is very nice to deal with these problems, where fertility is high and at the end of this is natural growth, there is no immigration and I would really like you to think about it. And I would also like you to give me a specific time frame when this could be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u260	Mr. Minister Luksic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u261	Mr President, Mr President. I can take over this obligation of our own to examine the matter and to look into what it would mean and to put it on the table also by the communities and by the association of the congregations, so that they can find out. Because it would be right for all municipalities to harmonise this proposal that this proposal is not just one of the municipalities, but to see how this could systematically change the law. That's all I can do. In three months, we'll be able to get that answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u262	Thank you very much. Dr. Peter Verlich has the floor to question the absent Minister of Transport Patrick Vlačič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u263	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, ministers. Fellow Members and Members. I ask the Minister of Transport a question concerning the change in the wine system and the drawing of European funds, and I ask that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I receive an oral reply from the Minister at the next meeting. The government has decided to change the vignette system due to the alleged freezing of European means to draw on the motorway programme. From then on and also from the answers I received from the Minister, it was clear that there was no real reason for the change in the vignette system, since we had not received from the Commission any official document signed by the Commissioner responsible for transport, although in fact he who came from Italy was very good pressure, obviously, on the Member State and was very successful at doing so. We've changed the wine system, we've got a shorter timeframe, and the annual vignettes have become very irritable, which will make home users of highways feel more vulnerable next year, and then this problem will be more exposed. What I am asking at this time of the Minister of Transport is: Is there now any response from the European Commission, or has the official letter signed by the Transport Commissioner, that the wine system is now in order and that the European means for the construction of motorways are already in Slovenia's account? Or these funds are still waiting in Brussels and are still not unlocked, which means that none of this has, of course, succeeded and that prices will probably have to be lowered yet. I ask the Minister of Transport: Has the Commission received an official response so far? And: What is its content? And what matters most. Are European funds already in Slovenia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u264	Thank you very much. Your question will be answered orally by Mr Minister at the next meeting. Thank you. Member Franz Bogovic has the floor to ask the Minister of Finance, Dr Križanič, and the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u265	Good evening to all present, so do you, Mr Vice President, the distinguished Minister, colleague and colleague! I am pleased that there are also two ministers among us, to whom I am addressing the issue in view of the current nature of this issue. In the SLS Group in mid-May, we have tabled in the legislative procedure a proposal to supplement the Income Act to provide that income payments are exempt under Article 36 of Council Regulation EC-169/2005 or, in other words, to exclude so-called OMD payments from the tax base. Despite the non-confrontation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the law in the National Assembly did not receive the necessary support for admission. In the Government's opinion on this law, you stated that a systematic and decision-making approach must be taken in all aspects to amend the rules on taxation of the basic agricultural and forestry activities. In this regard, the Government is expected to adopt a decision imposing on the Ministry of Finance to prepare, as soon as possible in cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, a proposal for amendments to and additions to the Income Act with a view to adapting, as soon as possible, the system of taxation of income from agricultural and forestry activities and to prepare a proposal for a new Cadastrian Income Identification Act, which will regulate the assessment of cadastral income in an objective and transparent manner. In view of the adoption of this legislation at the government level, I ask the honourable Minister: Why not at the same time prepare a proposal to amend the Income Act and the proposal for a new Cadastrian Income Act, as previously announced and promised? Why did you not include in the process of preparing the Income Act, which was withdrawn from the Government's agenda on Thursday, an interested professional public, or in this case we can also say social partners, as is usually the case in all other cases? Will the amendments to the provisions of tax laws affecting agriculture continue to be prepared and kept confidential, as you have begun in this case? Last but not least: Is the amendment of tax legislation that will further burden Slovenian farms the correct response of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the difficult situation in agriculture in the Republic of Slovenia today?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u266	Thank you very much. Dr. Križanič, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u267	Thank you for asking. With regard to the questions raised, we provide the following information. The proposal for a new law on income in agriculture brings two novelties. An explicit indication of payments for farming in an area with limited factors between income exempt from income, which has been the subject of misunderstandings and major dissatisfaction so far every year and has not been regulated for several years. This change means that only about 40% of all payments concerned and adopted under agricultural policy measures will be included in the tax base for future income. So these OMDs are forgiven. I personally pledged that the law proposed by my colleague Žerjav would also be adopted in this article, because it is practically now the same in income changes, but then, through the parliamentary procedure, this did not turn out to be the same. Changes in the method of calculating income from payments for agricultural policy measures, often referred to as agricultural subsidies. These are other payments, not OMD. So far, an average amount of these payments has been found per type of farmland which has been prescribed as a tax base income for all taxpayers who received such payments during the tax year, irrespective of the amount of the payments actually received. This meant administrative simplification, while increasing the burden on those debtors receiving low subsidies and lower the burden on those debtors receiving high such payments. The new law provides that payments are to be received for agricultural policy measures, those which we consider to be subsidies, include in the tax base the amount of the income actually received. This means, on the one hand, the potential unloading of small farmers receiving low subsidies and, on the other hand, an average amount was considered as an income base, but could also mean a slightly higher burden on farmers whose income from agricultural payments is higher than average. The actual amount of this burden or additional burden depends on the circumstances of each individual debtor in the sum of up to half the same from the point of view of the State, but it will be fairer. The solutions included in the proposal for the Income Act should also be linked to the solutions to the amendment of the Tax Procedure Act, which sets out the way in which the income is adjusted in respect of payments received under agricultural policy measures. The solutions included in the amendment of the law are favourable to the debtors who carry out basic agricultural and forestry activities and more justly distribute their tax burden in accordance with their economic capacity to pay the tax. The proposal for the amendment of the Income Act is without prejudice to the method of determining cadastral income as a potential market income from carrying out the basic agricultural or forestry activities laid down by the Cadastrian Income Law. Comparability with the implementation of both amendments is therefore not necessary. Undoubtedly, the cadastral income system is obsolete and needs to be renovated. The new cadastral income law is in preparation. An Interdepartmental Working Group, composed of representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Ministry of Finance and the Professional Public, has been established. The task of the working group is to draw up a proposal for a law by the end of November 2009. We also record different approaches in the past to involving the professional public in the drafting of the legislative text. In some cases, the professional public is already involved in the drafting phase of the proposal; in other cases, it is included after the proposal is drafted within the Ministry and the starting points are also aligned with other ministries. In the case of the last draft of the Income Act, the bill is now published on the websites of the Ministry of Finance and Government. It is possible to comment on the area of taxation of basic agricultural and forestry activities, an agreed meeting on Tuesday, 22 September 2009, when we will exchange views and see where there is a need for correction in the proposal for amendments to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u268	Thank you very much. Dr. Pogačnik, you have one minute left.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u269	I'm going to be very brief because I don't have any more time. However, the Ministry of Finance and I are coordinating on this. The OMDs have already been mentioned, where we reached agreement. Exclusion of OMDs from taxation. With regard to the new way of taxing agricultural activities, we have also proposed that the Government should have an interview with non-governmental organisations. Therefore, the adoption of the Government has also been postponed. Somehow we are in a dilemma because we believe that this increased tax burden will be exerted by some 60,000 agricultural holdings and will be more sensitive in the sectors of agriculture already in crisis, namely meat and milk. For this reason, we believe that matters need to be clarified in dialogue with non-governmental organisations. We certainly believe that it is essential for the law on cadastral income to be regulated, especially because we know that we have [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] an old cadastite, and that is essentially in a cadastral over 800 thousand hectares of land, but only 500 thousand hectares of agricultural land are in use. [[...]] These things are also transferred to [[...]] [[Exclusion of the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u270	Thank you very much. Mr. Bogovich, please. Complementary response.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u271	There are also two ministers, they have little time and I will give them a chance, and I will add something myself in this additional explanation. It is your answer, Your Honored Minister, that points to the intent of this law. 60,000 Slovenian farms will have an eternal tax burden and those farms that, as you said, have more production, so-called subsidy production, which are included in those 40% of the payments they receive around, and the rest are these OMD payments. That is why I think that this dialogue, this debate with those who work in agriculture daily, is essential, because today at the price of 25 cents, the respected Minister of Agriculture, the latest information is that the Ljubljana dairy has already made a proposal for half a cent of the price reduction - last week. At the same time, the kilogram of meat of the bull delivered is 2.8, 2.9 euros: 350 kilograms of meat - EUR 1050, for two years of work, plus the purchase of calves. I think that we will have to think seriously in Slovenia, whether at this time we can impose additional tax burdens on this farm or not today, and that in Slovenia, besides those farms that receive only OMD payments and manage the landscape, we will also look at those who produce food in Slovenia. Here I think we have some paradoxical attitude towards those farms that are today food producers. As you know, income is also the basis for all the other social benefits that are needed on a variety of farms and those who try to create as much as possible will be deprived of it. So I think it's very right that you have this meeting tomorrow. It is right that the law has been published on the websites, even better if it had been published before the government thought to confirm it through a rapid procedure, and that such things would also be discussed in substance with those whom I think they really have a lot to say in this area. I welcome this conversation of yours, I will not have any more procedural proposals, and I want you to make a good deal.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u272	Thank you very much. Dr. Crusader, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u273	One more time. Tomorrow, views will be exchanged, including on the link between the solutions in the income law, the enforcement law on cadastral income and on the very fairness of income in relation to the subsidies actually received. We expect that this income burden to be fairer and that a whole range of smaller farmers, much more than those who will be burdened, will be burdened.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u274	Thank you very much. Would you like Dr. Pogačnik to complete the answer? [[No, no, ……]] The Minister of Environment and Space, Mr Erjavac, will raise the question of the mission only Bevk. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u275	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! In Article 6, the Regulation on the pricing of municipal services required a positive expert opinion from the Ministry of the Environment and a space to meet supply standards and standards for the provision of public environmental services. In August 2009, the Regulation on the methodology for the pricing of compulsory municipal economic services for the protection of the environment was published, which summarises the same requirements in its Article 34. The Ordinance on the management of separate collected fractions in the public service of municipal waste management in its Article 5 provides that the classification of municipal waste in the sorting room should be ensured at least the disposal of paper and paperboard and separate fractions, which are packaging waste, as well as hazardous waste. The competent services of the Ministry interpret this requirement in such a way that each waste management operator should also have waste treatment, at least to a minimum, otherwise not be able to obtain a positive expert opinion. This requirement puts smaller service providers of municipal waste management in a situation where they should invest in processing plants, even though it is for this purpose that regional centres have been established where these treatments would be carried out there also for reasons of cost eligibility. Finally, the Waste Management Regulation in its Article 6 provides that processing does not have to be provided if the costs of processing are disproportionately higher than the costs of disposal. I ask Minister Karl Erjavac: Is a positive expert opinion binding also on small municipal waste service providers, since Article 6 of the Waste Management Regulation provides that processing does not have to be provided if processing costs are disproportionately higher than disposal costs? Thank you very much in advance for your answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u276	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister for Environment and Space, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u277	Thank you, Member of Parliament, for the question. It's a nice greeting to all of you who are here. First, I would like to explain that the regulation mentioned in the question of the Member State is a regulation on the pricing of municipal services, which expired. 15. 8. 2009 and that the Regulation on the methodology for the pricing of compulsory municipal economic services in the field of environmental protection should now be respected in the area of the pricing of municipal services. As before, the contractor must also obtain, as before, a positive expert opinion from the Ministry of the Environment on compliance with supply standards, technical, maintenance, organisational and other measures, in accordance with this Regulation. Compliance with those standards, including environmental legislation, must be met by all public service providers. That sounds as small as the big one. It is necessary to respect Article 6 of the Waste Management Regulation, which relates to waste management, and to understand this Regulation in the context of the entire second chapter on prevention, waste generation and management, to discuss the recommended order of waste management, to prepare for reuse, recycling, other treatment, disposal. In doing so, as you have stated, it does not allow waste processing to be ensured if its costs are disproportionately higher than the costs of disposal, or if their processing is more burdensome to the environment or to human health than their disposal. In doing so, it is necessary to know that this is possible only if removal is also involved. Therefore, in this context, it is not possible for a public service provider to place waste in a landfill because of the costs of municipal waste treatment or because it is caused by disproportionately higher costs, beyond the requirements of the rules governing the disposal of waste in landfills. Unfortunately, this also applies to small concessionaires who perform this public service, regardless of the fact that we have regional centres. Here, however, we are pursuing this goal that before municipal waste arrives for treatment in a regional centre, where it is created, it is attempting to process these municipal waste as much as possible. Because I have to say that Slovenia has only one of the highest shares in the disposal of municipal waste among the members of the European Union as regards the disposal of municipal waste. At this point, this share is still 85% of all municipal waste we create. However, we would like to achieve the standard in the European Union, which is being processed somewhere between 50% and 60% of all municipal waste. However, treatment requires prior treatment, recycling of these municipal wastes. We understand this in such a way that we too are underlying to obey this provision.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u278	Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u279	Thank you very much for having responded to Mr Minister and Vice-President for saying again. Now from the general to the concrete. In fact, the environmental inspection closed both landfills in the municipality of Idrija, which were also landfills for the neighbouring municipality of Cerkljan. And now we are forced to drive the trash to the nearest possible location that is still acceptable to us and is also relatively close, that is to Logatec. However, since we do not have a special sorting room at the landfill in the municipality of Idrija, which was closed, although we have a collection centre built, of course we will not be designing a new price for this municipal service because we will not have your positive professional opinion, as we have previously identified, so that it will not be possible to drive the trash so often to this landfill, but at an old price. In fact, let's say once a month and a half. Now it's been twice or every week. And simply, because of this opinion, the cost of the municipal budget will be 50 000 euros a month if we want to drive these garbage normally, because the price that citizens pay now is significantly lower, because the location in the municipality itself will now have to drive 30 kilometers away and will be disproportionately high, because we will not be able to get this opinion and somehow hope for one, I would say under the terms of the'meter war' in Idrija.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u280	Mr. Minister Erjavec, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u281	Thank you. I have to say, there's not going to be a "death war," and it shouldn't have come. It is in the interest of all of us to increase the volume of municipal waste treated. You know that the directive imposed on us on 15 July was that we had to close all those landfills that did not meet the conditions of the directive. These are that they have sufficient disposal space and that prior environmental consensus has been given. This is a measure imposed by the EU Directive on the management of municipal waste. I can tell you that we have closed over 40 landfills because they do not meet these conditions. I think it is Slovenia's interest to solve this problem in the way it is handled by developed countries, that these locations are not fragmented throughout Slovenia, but that they are where the conditions are for these wastes to be processed, processed and possibly used, for example, if they are being treated thermally for energy generation. I think that the attitude that was in the past, when virtually every congregation had its own landfill and was just dumping municipal waste, and then we solved the problem in such a way that over many years we have drained the land, fed it and solved the problem. These times are over, given the high standards of the European Union, in view of the directives adopted, which are also binding on Slovenia. I don't hope to think about what is buried in these landfills and covered today with grass and what this means for a possible groundwater.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u282	Thank you very much. Ms Minister of Defence Dr Ljubica Jelusic will ask Mr Franco Juri the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u283	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary! According to the news we are receiving from Afghanistan, the situation in this country is very critical. And according to interviews with Taliban commanders, which we can also read in our newspapers, it is understood that the Taliban are giving interviews smoothly in the hotel in the middle of Herat, which creates the impression that the army that is there is controlling their barracks, but it does not control the territory and does not control the actual situation. During this week or in the preceding weeks, a number of concerns were raised about the conscience. First, the killing of civilians in Konduz, then the killing of Italian soldiers in Kabul itself. These days, the Republic of Slovenia or the Slovenian Army sends a new contingent to Afghanistan, which occurs occasionally as members of the international forces. Given that Slovenian members of the international forces in Afghanistan are based on the base used by Italian members of the international forces and the fact that there is already a hot debate in Italy about the possible withdrawal of the Italian army from Afghanistan - after all, this has been demanded by Mr. Di Pietro, who is leading one of the main opposition parties - sooner or later such a decision can also take place. And in the event that Italian soldiers withdraw from Afghanistan, I ask you: How, in what way does Slovenia think to continue its presence? Is he considering a possible unilateral withdrawal?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u284	Dr. Ljubica Jelusic, Minister of Defence, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u285	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Respectable and esteemed assembly! Mr Member, thank you very much for your question, which I am pleased with because you point out that you are concerned and that it means a lot to think about what is happening not least with our soldiers in Afghanistan, because six years of constant rotations in which these people in Afghanistan were somehow passing us, as if it were something completely routine. I don't think it's routine and it's important to equip these soldiers with a message that we're worried that we're with them, that we're with them and their families, because we sent them on our way on behalf of sharing the allied burdens in an operation in Afghanistan. It is true that in all these years in which Slovenia is in Afghanistan and, of course, 42 other allied countries, there has not been a significant shift in the security situation for the better. However, there has been a significant shift in the social situation of many layers of the Afghan population. I think that all of us together, all of these 42 countries, have a certain responsibility for international peace and security in Afghanistan, for many populations, for the little hope that these populations still need. You point out that calls for the withdrawal of the Italian army from Afghanistan are being made in the Italian public. I must say that in these days we have carefully studied what and how one of the most important allies in ISAF is doing, that is Italy. We've found that calls for withdrawal are coming in an interesting way. All the more important politicians are doing this with some special undertone. In fact, if such an important ally as Italy so strongly points out its role in Afghanistan, it means that it is also pressing on the Afghan government. In particular, if it turns out that the elections were regular or the result of the elections in Afghanistan will be announced, this will in fact put pressure on Karzai and his associates to deal more seriously with security problems in Afghanistan and that the international community cannot take care of the security, stability and development of this country instead. In short, the pressure is on Karzai and his people to make a more serious fight against terrorism, to make sure they fight organised crime, not least against the opium fields, and to make sure that their country develops differently if we, the international community, are trying to help them and, of course, to invest enormously in their development. As far as these withdrawal calls are concerned, it must be said that in the Italian public, there is also the Bossi and the North League, which has slightly eased their demands, or they are taking sides, at least as far as the government parties are concerned, in particular the withdrawal of 500 soldiers who were sent to support the elections in Afghanistan, which in fact means that they will return to Afghanistan after the completion of their mission, they will withdraw those soldiers who would return anyway. Very similar will be done by all other countries that have supported the elections with special contingents, not least Slovenia, which has sent 15 soldiers specifically to support the elections. Our soldiers will certainly be back by Christmas, as the Italians said. I understand that the country that is experiencing such a terrible tragedy, losing six soldiers at once, must also start thinking to itself about what is happening in Afghanistan and, of course, we, as an ally, must feel their great loss, because one day we too will expect other countries to feel compassion for us. However, I must say that the countries that we are in Afghanistan and which we are in other international operations regard our tasks as allied tasks and that calls or even decisions on unilateral withdrawals mean actually a knife in the back of an ally. It is not customary for states to decide unilateral withdrawals without consulting others, and I do not think that the Slovenian State will do so on its own.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u286	Thank you very much. Mr Franco Juri is asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u287	I thank you for this most interesting answer, but I don't think what I've actually asked is exhausted. There's a war going on in Afghanistan. This is no longer a peace mission. This is a war where NATO or foreign armies are involved in war against domestic rebels. And that, of course, puts forth great ethical, moral dilemmas. You have also failed to expect similar sympathy if there was a tragedy that struck Italy and other allies. Italy lost 21 soldiers, after all, at the start of the operation. I'm very concerned that a similar tragedy would happen to our soldiers. And I am even more concerned that further tragedies will take place around the world and that the security of the Republic of Slovenia will also be questioned. I wonder if, sooner or later, there will be at least a deadline for withdrawal, even a long-term perspective of withdrawal, more clearly than now, I wonder whether we will continue to engage in a war where we are objectively foreigners and for the first time in history we are fighting in a foreign country against the rebels who are there at home.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u288	Dr. Jelusic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u289	With your warnings, I can only agree and respect them. I can only add the following expectations. Indeed, the international community will be obliged to settle the situation in Afghanistan and will be obliged to contribute to peace and stability in this part of the world. And I think that this regulation should continue on the one hand at the political level and also at the operational level. At the political level, we must expect our statesmen to ask in all international organisations the answers to these questions that you are asking. On the other hand, at operational level, we need to understand that the ways in which we have worked so far in Afghanistan clearly have not led to the resolution of the problems and we will all have to think together about new strategies, on the one hand increasing stability, and on the other hand also our own gradual withdrawal. Our assessment is that we can help this gradual withdrawal in such a way as to help train the Afghan army and the Afghan police. To help civilian experts develop various infrastructure projects to help with economic assistance, through various forms of international development assistance. This is our task to make this country's development more stable. And speaking of more serious involvement in Afghan military training, in order to take care of ourselves and have a review of your country, as you warned before, if someone can quietly give interviews in the middle of the city, then who controls this city. So the Afghan army is the one who should have control of its city, and in this knowledge of such work we can help them with our knowledge. That is why I think that the future of Slovenian cooperation in a peacekeeping mission in Afghanistan is precisely in making our knowledge, our training to be able to protect our own country. This opens the way for us all to go home together. However, I do not think that this kind of reflection can only take place at the Ministry of Defence, that we must do it together. As with the Chairman of the Foreign Policy Committee long ago, I hope that we will be able to do something together on this subject, not least with the help of the people who have been in Afghanistan, in order for a comprehensive strategy of our relationship to Afghanistan, we can do something together in all the relevant committees of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u290	Thank you very much. Member Bogdan Čepič has the floor to ask the Minister of Environment and Space, Mr Karl Erjavac. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u291	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary, Mr. Secretary! I am asking you a question on behalf of two civil initiatives, the citizens' initiative Kozjak and Draguchov, which oppose the planned routes for the construction of the remote 2 x 400 from the Kozjak to Hrence hydroelectric power plant. Civil initiatives also in a letter to the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia ask the President of the Government for intervention, as they note that the entire State Spatial Plan is being implemented in a half-secret manner and does not take into account the proposals and suggestions of the civil initiative, the positions of the Municipality of Maribor, the Municipality of Pesnica and also some poor communities on the route envisaged. From you, Mr. Minister, and from Minister Lachovnik, they do not receive an answer on the initiatives they are sending. Let me begin by saying that civil initiatives do not oppose the construction of the necessary hydropower plant of the Kozjak hydroelectric power plant. They are aware that this is an important energy facility, which has an important place in the supply of top energy, which is usually more expensive. They are concerned about how the State Spatial Plan is being prepared. It is a single spatial plan for a lake in Kozjak, a connecting pipeline between Lake, a hydroelectric power plant and the Drava River and a high-voltage route 2 x 400 KV Kozjak-Hrenca. Civil initiatives are opposed to the planned route through Kozjak, which will mean, in so far as this route is chosen, an extremely large intervention into the space, thereby also causing irreparable damage in nature and an enormous deterioration in the sustainable development of living space between the Drava River and the state border with the Republic of Austria. Because of the negative impact on the environment caused by such power lines, permanent destruction of agricultural production jobs, a tourist activity on farms that helps farmers who continue their agricultural activities in this territory of Slovenia. The path across Kozjak is not the only one, but it is probably the cheapest for investors, a civil initiative cannot accept the purpose of capital to make an investment in the environmental burden of people living in this environment in a desire to realize the commercial interests of various groups. Mr. Minister, I ask you: How far is the preparation of the State Spatial Plan and on what route? When establishing the DN, please take into account and cooperate with civil initiatives in the preparation. Civil initiatives, together with 10,000 subscribers to the petition against the construction of remotes over Kozjak and Slovenske Gorica, ensure that they do not agree to build over Kozjak and that an important energy facility, which is estimated at EUR 150 million, will be compromised, should be stressed, not budget money, but the money of co-investors and also foreign investors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u292	Mr Karl Erjavec has the floor and has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u293	Thank you, Member of Parliament, for the question. He has raised a very pressing issue, namely the issue of civil initiatives when it comes to state projects when it comes to the implementation of certain state infrastructures. You know, we have very big problems here in different areas, not just remotes, hydro power plants, it's also railways, highways and so on. It is necessary to be aware here that certain infrastructures are of national importance and therefore specific rules are also in force, namely, State spatial plans are adopted in these cases. This is because it is such an infrastructure that is of particular importance to the functioning of the State. I must say that at the Ministry of the Environment we are very open to dialogue with various civil initiatives. I must say that my first assignment was before I took over my post as Minister of the Environment, I have not yet completed the transfer, and the journey to Renèa, where, you know, this complication, was also a problem of the installation of the remote, which is essential if we want the state to be able to ensure normal electricity supply. A similar case is the one you mentioned. However, I must say that the basic task of the Ministry, as the State Spatial Planmaker, is to care for legality, and in this regard all actors are attracted to this process, both to local communities, to organised public and to interested individuals, then to operators of space regulation who assess what a concrete intervention in terms of, I don't know, nature protection, from the point of view of cultural heritage, not least from the point of view of economy, because it is necessary to plan such facilities also in accordance with the economic account. And of course, this process is attracted by an instigator and an investor. The instigator is usually the Ministry of Economy, which is also responsible for the field of energy. As these projects go far, I must say that we have six such State spatial plans for such projects at the Ministry of the Environment at this time. One is for 2 x 400 KV Cirkovce-Pince, where preparations for the public decommissioning will begin in the second half of October 2009, then we have the State Spatial Plan for the 2 x 10 KV long line at the Grosuplje-Trebnje section, which is just before the adoption of the government regulation, then the State Spatial Plan for the Hydropower plant at Drava and the Remote Connection to RTP Maribor, then the State Spatial Plan for the Thermoelectric Trbovlje, where a decision was taken by the Government at the beginning of the preparation and the State Spatial Plan for the Hydroelectric Brežice, which is in the preparation phase of the completed draft. I know you're going to tell me that you didn't ask me that, but I want to tell you how many of these projects there are and what it would mean if we don't make these projects happen. It is clear, however, that the procedure must take into account all the comments made by the local community, civil initiatives and other public. Of course, it does not mean that any comment is taken into account automatically. These are then expert judgements, where it is determined whether the comments made by the organised public or by a civil initiative of such a nature are actually to be heard and corrected, or whether they are comments that do not drink water. I must say that there are sometimes some such requirements among many civil initiatives that are not in accordance with the legislation and are also not in conformity with the profession. At times, however, there are other interests that prevail. You mentioned interest. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u294	Mr. Secretary, thank you very much. Mr. Capič will ask for an additional reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u295	Thank you very much. I'm not gonna ask you what you've already asked yourself. This is about me working alone with the contracting authority of this spatial plan, it is the Drava power plant Maribor, which is the initiator of all of this and is also largely a financier. It's two corridors that are possible, which are not particularly intruding. It is the cable of a high voltage cable of various powers and it is a route on which high voltage cables are already running and can be modified with some reconstruction. The investor went on a long-distance route, which means over Kozjak. He didn't do anything. He made this comparative study completely uncomparable. We talked about the river, the combination of the river and the land. He came on that route that we keep saying, "No, because it's a natural environment," so over Kozjak. And everyone who knows him knows that there are so many valleys and hills here that it's far, far inappropriate. And then it's really only possible to compare the power lines and nothing else. But it is a new route, which is already somewhat degraded and is possible under today’s technology and today’s options. That's why I said it. And so that we do not make a spatial plan now such that civil initiatives, including people and instigators of all this, will not accept and later have direct costs. That's why I warned you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u296	Thank you, Mr. Chappich. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. No, it wasn't a request for a complementary answer. Mr Milan Čadež has the floor to ask the Minister of Transport, Mr Vlačič, who is absent.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u297	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Good evening again, everyone! It will soon be a year before we heard the Minister's presentation. And I remember well that the development axis and the periphery in the country will be given priority. I am very interested in this project, given the fact that there has been a long history of development in Škofjeloška. I asked the Minister three questions at the beginning of August, and I also received an answer. However, given that I have been following this project for more than 30 years, I was not satisfied with the answer, I would give him some starting points. First of all, last year, there was a sub-level 4 pitch, where the biggest problem is. A decision was also issued, which was also approved by the Ministry of Environment and Space and was also included in the Land Book. On this basis, the administrative unit of Škofja Loka issued a decision on decommissioning. Everything was going right, but it stopped at one square metre of land already owned by the Republic of Slovenia or the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads. I'm interested in two: Is this true, and why was there a mistake, and when will the continuation of the work on the bishop’s siege be? But I want a precise timeline. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u298	Thank you very much. Mr. Chad, you will receive an answer, written, in the 30th days. Please give the floor to the Minister for Mr Čadež for his question. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u299	I'd like an oral response to the next session.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u300	You did not say this when you had a question of your own, which is why, according to the Rules of Procedure, you should have it in writing within 30 days. Mr. Mag. Radovan Žerjav will ask the question of the absent Minister of the Interior Katarina Kresal and the Minister of Justice, Mr Aleš Zalar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u301	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, both ministers, colleagues! At the third meeting of the National Assembly, I have already asked the question of the so-called "Sanjska Loans of Austrian Banks". Let me remind you of a highly unusual story about farmers who have been burdened by their parents' debts for more than ten years, they are no longer able to pay these bank loans, as they have been paying only interest for years without touching the principal. This situation forces them to reprogram or hire new loans, and many have already carried out executions and are without houses and fields. The executions take place in Pomurje, Ptujska and Celje, and are also about Koroška. This is an unusual story where the Slovenian lawyer, the official legal representative of the Austrian bank, is also his wife, together with the director of this Austrian bank, the owner of the real estate company, who, of course, buys these seized properties at auctions. On the question raised, I received an answer from the ministers that they were aware of the fact that the police were conducting certain activities and that the State Prosecutor's Office had been asked for an expert opinion on the legal nature of those transactions. Of these questions and answers, six months have passed, so I ask the Minister and the Minister: What was done during this time to make unacceptable actions - which, according to my information, are still going on in the same scenario with the same players - impossible and to protect Slovenian citizens and citizens against these kinds of frauds and actions?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u302	Thank you very much. The Minister of Justice has the floor, Mr. Aleš Zalar.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u303	The last time I answered our question, the procedure was conducted as explained at the time. The Attorney General's Office then replied that this matter had not been brought to the attention. However, they orally examined the case at the District Attorney's Office in Murska Sobota and at the District Attorney's Office in Ptuj, and none of the two prosecutions had dealt with any criminal charges related to these loans until the beginning of March of this year. With regard to your question again, of course, we have requested the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office on the basis of Article 66d of the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office for any new information. We received an answer and this reply was accompanied by the response of the Head of the District Attorney's Office in Murska Sobota. It follows from this reply that such complaints shall not be dealt with. The head states that police officers, on the basis of media reports, are expected to start investigating the matter at Raiffeisen Bank on his telephone initiative. Thus, an interim report was sent on 25 March 2009. On the basis of this report, a legal position was then obtained from the Supreme State Prosecutor’s Office. This was obtained on 22 April 2009. This legal opinion was then forwarded to the police. Police officers of the Murska Sobota Police Administration then continued to collect certain notifications in cooperation with the General Police Administration. On 2 September, police officers of the Murska Sobota police administration requested the District Attorney's Office in Murska Sobota to seek to obtain from the Austrian police through Eurojust some information that would contribute to the resolution or clarification of the case. On 7 September, the Head of the District Attorney's Office in Murska Sobota sent a letter to Eurojust proposing that this issue be referred to the competent Austrian State Prosecutor's Office and that the required data be collected through the police. So this is what I, as Minister of Justice, explain to you in the light of the answers received by the prosecution. In a work where more detailed answers may be needed by the Minister of the Interior, of course I, as Minister of Justice, am not competent to give such answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u304	Thank you very much. Mag. Radovan Žerjav, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u305	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. First, in accordance with Article 247, I would also like to request the Minister's oral reply. Otherwise, I would like to point out that you may have heard that a tragic event occurred a month or two ago when a desperate lady who had problems with this loan, and apparently also with great threats, poured gasoline on her child. In short, it's a serious matter. The public is getting the feeling that nothing is going on in this area. In Murska Sobota, the police convened a press conference and told journalists practically nothing that would be important or from which it could be understood that something was going on. And one simply gets the feeling that there is no desire for research. And that I'm even more specific than he's trying to hide things. Such a feeling is in public and, of course, I would ask both the Minister of Justice and the Minister to convince the public that this is not the case. By the way, it just smells like shit all over the line. There's nothing else I can say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u306	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, would you like to complete your response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u307	Mr Member, you know that I have been there as a minister - and this is particularly up to date in recent days - rather limited powers in relation to the State Prosecutor's Office. However, I have told you, and from the information I have received, it follows that the competent prosecutor is however directing this preliminary procedure and obtaining certain information that will enable him to take a decision on whether there are sufficient grounds for any suspicion that a crime has been committed here or not. Of course, as Minister, I cannot perform the role that law enforcement authorities have to play; they are, of course, independent and responsible for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u308	Thank you very much. Mr Žerjav, within the time available, the Minister of the Interior will answer you at the next meeting. The question to the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology, Mr Golobic, will be put by Ambassador Guido Kres.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u309	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! Dear Mr. Secretary! The Faculty of Economics of the University of Ljubljana recently presented a study entitled Analyses of Slovenian Graduates of the 2007 generation, which shows the likelihood of postgraduate employment in specific areas of education. After three months, more than half of the graduates in the field of computing, technology, manufacturing and processing technologies and construction are expected to be employed. At the bottom of this scale are graduates of social sciences and artistic and humanistic studies, which are forecasting only 25% or even fewer employment opportunities after three months. It is also presented that almost 16% of graduates of the University of Ljubljana, 14% of graduates of the University of Novi Gorica, almost 10% of graduates of the University of Maribor, and a good 6% of graduates of the University of Primorska have been employed in the first three months following graduation. Over the next three months, shares grew differently: at the University of Ljubljana to 26%, at the University of Novi Gorica to 23, at the University of Maribor to 18 and at the University of Primorske to 11. Therefore, according to the data collected, they have the best chance of fast employment after graduating from the University of Ljubljana. I would like to know, Mr. Secretary-General: How do you rate these results at your Ministry? It is clear that there is a major gap between the professional desires of the young generation and the employment opportunities. In 2004, however, a shift to technical studies was mentioned. I want to know: Is the ministry working on it now? But above all, I want to know: Why does the Ministry not put in place a system to include information on the employability of graduates every year on the call for study programmes? I am convinced that all those enrolled in tertiary education, their parents and the entire Slovenian public are obliged to provide complete and concrete information. From practice, I can tell you that some of the faculties represent their work and direction, in order to ensure entry and, of course, also their work or existence, and I think they don't care about the future of their future diplomats. Let me finish. Information on the study programme without information on the possibility of employment is certainly not complete information. Thank you very much for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u310	Mr. Golobic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u311	Your Honor. All other present, distinguished presidents! Thank you for your question, which is very weighty, in-depth and also, I will say, requires some answer that would go beyond the time that is probably available to us at this point. The topic is also not new, especially when it comes to promoting greater entry into the deficits or education for deficient professions in the field of science and technology. As you report in the question, in the past some attempts have already been made here with relative success or failure, as is seen here, but this is a topic that we will also have to be interested in through many of the projects that we are preparing at the Ministry. Some of them will also receive parliamentary treatment, for example, we need to draw up a law on the national qualification framework, which is a very important interdepartmental project, including the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Labour, in cooperation with the professional public. This should be of great assistance to both employers and the design of higher education programmes for the preparation or for the design of such programmes, which will increase the employability of students with their competences. As regards this study by the Faculty of Economics of the University of Ljubljana, the data refer to one generation. Now, it is important and good that the schools monitor their students even after they have completed their studies and in this I believe we need to strengthen this awareness or this commitment of higher education institutions to monitor what is happening to their graduates and to take this into account in their plans or activities. Of course, this identification of this employability is a time and methodologically very demanding project. These results, these studies are moving in this sense, but also as such welcome. In this broader context, we believe that this study of the Faculty of Economics should also be interpreted. It could at first sight indicate that, on short notice, graduates of sociology and humanities are more difficult to employ, but of course this cannot in itself lead to the conclusion that their professionalism or the quality of their diploma is lower. They are more numerous, this study is quite massive and, of course, this means that the labour market is slower to absorb. The information that the University of Ljubljana should be the easiest to employ should also be relativised to some extent. This is, of course, the largest university, and it has far more graduates, including the most potential job seekers or employees. She is also the only one in Slovenia who educates graduates from many fields. For example, some art, dental medicine, pharmaceuticals, vets, theology, and others. This should also be taken into account. There is also a lack of accurate data on the type of employment, sustainability in fact, which is an important indicator as to whether employment has been made for a certain period of time or indefinite. This is a particular problem of this mass employment for a certain period of time. Not to mention that after graduation or just before graduation, many are still working in the form of student work, which is another topic. Of course, this study referred to one generation of students or graduates, and it would be difficult to say that the actual situation is being summed up in its entirety. But the general conclusion is that only about a quarter of graduates are employed in about six months, worrying. This should give us some careful thought. However, it is true that we cannot generalise here and that, as for the past week, two months of unemployment for someone can be very problematic, but it is also true that, as I mentioned earlier, this rapid but only short-term employment, this risk and this situation do not improve. As regards the promotion of science and technology, in the past, in 2006-2008 with the Ministry of Education, Minister Zupan led an intensive campaign to promote this study. Unfortunately, there were no expected targets at the actual level. In order to make this study more attractive, there will be a lot more to be done, including at the level of mentality in society, so that these professions will be more valued, recognised, recognized, even valued. There's a lot more to come. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u312	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Guido Kres, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u313	I'm going to add to the question: How do you feel about this situation changing in this segment of employment or getting a better percentage?
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u314	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u315	Look, there's actually no quick shortcuts here. When it comes to directing young people to study or live in this sense, of course, we have no dealings with the naive population. They know exactly what happens in society, what counts. And if we know that, for example, in the image of the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy, what gives a certain advantage to our companies, poorly paid engineering work, not really undervalued work of unskilled employees, then of course it is a circumstance that discourages young people from focusing on this study. Despite these data from this survey, that, for example, students of computer science, as you mentioned, or some of the technical directions, are the fastest employed, young people still make massive decisions about different studies. Or, for example, health schools, we know that the personnel coming from there have already filled the market and that they will be difficult to employ, and the club continues to do so. So, also the project "Knowledge of reaping", here in the National Assembly, the promotion of science through various projects, through the strengthening of some promotion of science through the House of Experiments and the Festival of Science, which is taking place this week, is something that we want to support, which is what we want to increase our interest in studying in these directions. We cannot expect rapid results overnight, there will be a lot of work to be done in the field of scholarship policy. This also takes into account the promotion of entry with incentives for certain deficit areas. Also in the calls for development tasks in the framework of higher education, we have identified a specific city or the largest number of points in the field of science and technology. All of this is a set of small steps that should lead to a full turn in the area of pre-graduate studies to record changes, such as those in the last year, by the way, in the field of young researchers in the economy, where interest has increased significantly in this year's call for proposals in view of previous years, which is a good promise that these developing cores of the economy will become sufficiently competitive, strong and will be followed by new young people who will decide on such studies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u316	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar will ask the Minister of Economy, Dr Matei Lahovnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u317	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr. Secretary. In my office, in the short term, a number of workers have come forward who have been playing and harming for many years by not paying their salaries or contributions to health and pension insurance. Abuse and injury of employees in limited liability companies are particularly serious. In practice, it often happens that entrepreneurs do not settle liabilities to employees and other creditors. The Bank is blocking their transaction account and the company can also go bankrupt and the entrepreneur will continue business smoothly through other companies that are established or set up by one or more new companies with the same activity. Since workers with low incomes tend to lose their earned wages, it also poses a risk to the social security of workers and those living with them. It follows from the Ministry of Justice's website that this problem was exposed as a problem that should have been solved by the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Justice in 2005 but not solved. With its institutions, the State is expected to ensure social order and security for the population. One of the most important tasks of the State and its institutions is to ensure to all its inhabitants a level playing field for life, security and legality. Its civil value and purpose is, therefore, to give people a sense of belonging and a certain degree of satisfaction over being in the country with the relevant legislation and fundamental rights and duties of the inhabitants. That's why we pay the residents to the country. In return, we rightly expect the institutions of the State to ensure effective legislation, the efficient work of the inspection services and the repressive judicial authorities. The country should prevent precisely the abuses of employees that are taking place today in large numbers. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary: Does the Ministry, in cooperation with other ministries, prepare amendments to the legislation to prevent such abuses? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u318	Thank you very much. The word is from the Minister Dr. Lakhovnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u319	Thank you for your question, Madam Ambassador Magi. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar. With regard to your question, I would like to give the following answer. The Ministry of Economy is, of course, aware of the seriousness of this issue, which you have rightly stated, mainly about the non-payment of contributions to pension and disability insurance. Although the Ministry of the Economy is not a substantive body for that area, since this is a matter of great importance within the competence of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, the Ministry of Economy will of course support any measures that might improve the situation in this area. Allow me to give you a brief glimpse of the activities that are crucial in this area. Under the responsibility of the Ministry of Economy, the Act on Economic Companies is the law. In this part, the law also provides that an economic society may be set up by any natural or legal person, with the law providing, of course, that the shareholders are not liable for capital companies with their property. However, in Article 8 of the Company Act there is a so-called ZGD 1, a designated institution of so-called transparency of legal personality, which prevents the abuse of a legal person to harm creditors - in this case also employees or in particular employees. In this case, of course, the law provides that the parties are responsible for the company's obligations. In this regard, there was a considerable controversy whether this institution is appropriate or not, of course, we also have the opposite arguments of a civil initiative against the disappearance of businesses and similar ones which point out that this institution of review of the legal personality may also be controversial, but in this part it can effectively protect all those who have been abused by a social partner, for example, with a view to some of its activities bankrupting. In addition, I should point out that the Law on the Judicial Register, which, while under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice, provides in Article 27 that in the case of the entry into force of a capital company or the modification of a member of a limited liability company, a member or founder must make a statement which is somehow to include, in fact, that there is no other capital company involved with more than 25%, or that all capital companies have capital in which he participates with more than 25%, all taxes and other compulsory taxes which have expired on them. Except for those, of course, who were allowed a decree or a ring payment in accordance with the law governing the tax procedure. If this person makes an untrue statement, the Act on the Court Register in Article 53 defines this act as an offence. It thus stipulates that the fine of €1,600 for an offence is punishable by a legal person who has made an untrue statement. The fine of €600 also punishes the person responsible for the offence and punishes the individual with a fine of €600. The Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia shall exercise control over the implementation of these provisions. It is called Durs, who is otherwise under the authority of the Ministry of Finance. It should also be added that, in the event that an undertaking is not paid, seemingly or in fact making worse its assets or the assets of another debtor and thus causes bankruptcy or fulfils the conditions for the liquidation of an economic company, it shall, under an official duty without liquidation, do so in accordance with Article 226 of the Penal Code, which is under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice, a criminal offence of false bankruptcy. From the point of view of specific amendments to the rules, of course, concerning the direct payment of contributions to pension and disability insurance, as I said, I suggest that you address yourself directly to the Ministry of Labour, the family and social affairs. In these parts, which I have just mentioned, as it is said, they cover this area of the institution in exactly the same way as I have stressed and, of course, the law also pursues such abuses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u320	Thank you very much. Mrs. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u321	Thank you very much for your answer. The answer shows that it is true that there is such a wide cross-cutting problem that really needs to be addressed, as it turns out that workers fall out and this problem is not solved. I have here a document of an employee who, for the second time in the last two years, ran into an employer for whom he worked without getting paid for his work. The worker had a monthly income of seven hundred euros, from which he paid 300 euros a month for a housing loan. The worker’s failure to pay his salary has plunged the worker into severe social distress. However, when the worker, in spite of the action and the enforcement decision, did not receive the refund of the wages he earned, nor did he recover the costs of the court, since his employer’s account had become empty and blocked, the worker lost confidence in the State and its institutions. In those days, another employer cheated on the same worker for his salary. In the meantime, the bank has also blocked the employer’s account in the company where the worker is employed, while the employer quietly continues to operate through four other companies with limited liability, established by him or his friends. It is clear from this case that there is something severe creaking in this country. In short, despite a lawsuit, a worker can't get his wages earned. I would ask nicely, Dr. Matthew Lahovnik, Minister of Economics, if this problem were to be examined inter-resortically, what it really is like to use all these articles and why workers cannot get to what they should get to in the country that was regulated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u322	Dr. Laharnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u323	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would only warn you once again that it is right, I am very pleased with this issue, and I also ask you to address it to all the institutions to which I have warned you or to take appropriate action in accordance with the law. If we have a law in this country that speaks in 226th Article of the Penal Code to a crime of false bankruptcy, then appropriate complaints must be lodged and may be filed by anyone, including a Member, if they have been, or a person directly affected. I am not a lawyer, but given that Article 226 of the Penal Code explicitly refers to the act of false bankruptcy, this law must, of course, be regulated. Similarly, the Law on the Court Register provides for fines in Article 53 if a person makes a false statement regarding his participation in other capital companies, or if all companies in which he or she participates with more than 25% have settled all taxes and other compulsory charges which have expired the legal maturity of EUR 1600 is for a legal person and then, of course, for natural persons. The tax administration of the Republic of Slovenia exercises control over the implementation of these provisions, and if it does not implement these provisions well, they should also be noted by specific indication of the names, surnames, abuses, cases of companies where these abuses occurred. Now, we have a lot of legislation, but it is obvious that it is not implemented for various reasons, either for these gentlemen who are carrying out these manipulations, no one declares it or the authorities do not act when the applications are made. If it is the last, then of course you need to look at what is happening on these organs. But I'm afraid there's not enough of these reports. But these are things that shouldn't have happened. I very much agree with you, and it is necessary to prevent these gentlemen who are using these "malversations" from continuing their business, because it is only a question of who will be played again. And that is why this institution overlooks legal personality, where members are responsible under certain conditions for the obligations of society with all their assets, in this part it makes this sense. That is why I am pleased with this question of yours, but, of course, it is now necessary for all these institutions, which I have already mentioned in the first part of the answer, to apply. However, if they do not act, it is known who is at the head of individual institutions, and it will be necessary to check why there is no action if abuse occurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u324	Thank you very much. Mr Luka Juri will ask the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology Gregor Golobic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u325	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems that we have a number of late hours of questions and answers in common in addition to our amendments. Thank you for staying this time, too. With the recently published result of the call for excellence centres, on Friday, we have learned, as a whole, that 8 of the total 61 applications have been selected in the tender. However, 17. A total of €77.5 million was distributed from €84 million. As a carrier, three projects were awarded to the Chemical Institute in Ljubljana. As a carrier, three projects were awarded to the Josef Štefan Institute in Ljubljana. One project was awarded as a carrier to the Faculty of Economics of the University of Ljubljana. One project was awarded to the Faculty of Science and Technology of the University of Ljubljana as a carrier. The rest were discarded. I'm asking you, Minister: What criteria did the Commission use? While I expect you to answer me that the main criterion was excellence, I am interested: Was polycentric development policy also one of the criteria for this development? In the end, I'd like to ask you: Are you satisfied as a minister with the result of this election, even in the fact that, apart from the facilities within a radius of 3 kilometres from this building, all other investors are deeply disappointed, especially because of the essential centralist policy in the selection process? Finally, the final question is: How was €77.5 million of the 84 million allocated? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u326	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Golobic.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u327	Thank you so much for asking. Maybe I'll start at the end of what the rules were in the invitation. This call was planned in a way that we cut across with some old practice that did not produce good results. In fact, some amount of money was distributed in the end by the number of applicants. Everybody's got a little bit and nobody's got enough. And when we asked them for the results, where are the achievements, where are the successes, where are the breakthroughs that we need, which is why we're financing this, they said, "You've given us too little money." The decision for this call was therefore informed, defined and clearly put forward under tendering conditions. Everyone knew that they could not report projects that were valued at less than €3 million in co-financing, but we are talking about the extent of co-financing and not more than €10 million. The average value of the notified project was just over €9 million. And that went to 77.5 million euros. I myself wanted to increase the additional involvement of the funds, but this was not possible under the rules of call for European structural funds. Therefore, it was divided as far as it worked out, because we should not have added anything to any of the projects and taken nothing away. All other criteria under which all notifiers were selected were published in the invitation to tender in the Official Journal issued on 13 May. Before 16 March, however, all the criteria and criteria were published on the Ministry's website, which was highlighted by all the interested public and a rather lively discussion took place on the website. We have collected the announcements of possible applications so that we can see the extent to which we can count and also encourage interested ones to connect. Because of what I said earlier, we knew that only something, not more than 10, would be chosen, based on the money that had already been defined for this purpose in the past. I would like to see more of it in order to get another piece of money in a reprogramme of European funds that could be earmarked for this purpose. Because, as you said, 61 consortiums have applied, of which a very difficult assessment of international evaluators has been made, I think that from nine European countries, throughout the summer, with a positive assessment, 17 consortiums have passed all the tests. I would be very happy if we could all spend our money, but given the average value of a good 9 million, we would need € 160 million there somewhere. Unfortunately, we had half the number and therefore only 8 chosen. In March of the month, we published all the criteria on the website and we received a lot of comments on them, because we really wanted to respond through this call to the expectations of the economy, science and the public, which was very critical until the previous round, if I may say, centres of excellence, where less money was allocated and many of them, some were successful and some did not meet expectations. The regional criteria during this whole period of this public debate have never been exposed as something that should be included. By the way, of any of the 70 who announced interest, no one saw anything wrong with the criteria and criteria in this regard. The essence of the centres of excellence has been to bring together critical mass, knowledge and appropriate research infrastructure in order to achieve a breakthrough, not in the Slovenian scale, but in the European and global scale, in particular in the areas identified in the national strategic documents of this country adopted in the National Assembly. And this was how to integrate the best research groups, the most innovative economy and bring together a critical mass of knowledge throughout the Slovenian space. The carriers you mentioned are indeed you, but, if you look at them, in these consortia, between 7 and 22 partners, businesses and knowledge institutions from all over Slovenia are also involved. So I think it's very lucky. From this point of view, however, it has been shown that not only to link the economy, knowledge and research that we have, but we even have partners that operate here and are connected throughout Slovenia. In this sense, it seems to me that the invitation to tender has been successful, but it is not yet completed. Procedures, deadlines pending [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u328	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Luka Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u329	Thank you very much, Minister. I would tell you that as soon as there is an open debate on increasing funds for projects such as the Centre of Excellence, you can consider it an ally. I also tell you that I am personally on the score, but here I do not blame the commission she chose, I am angry and disappointed. Because now there are two options: Whether the Commission has chosen to leave out what is not in Ljubljana, what is not Ljubljana or what I think is more consistent with reality, obviously, according to challenging criteria, let's say, Slovenia, except for Ljubljana, is out of the question, I am talking about bearing projects. And this must concern us as a coalition and, of course, also the minister, who is normally not the Minister for Polycentric Development, but the Minister for Higher Education and not the centres of the regions, but the centres of excellence. I understand that. But that kind of result surprises me. I would give you a starting point for further response by calling, in this complaint of this project, this call, and also in further calls, that you are still trying to encourage the rest of Slovenia to report something that can, as well as the name itself, be excellent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u330	Thank you very much. Minister, Mr. Golobich.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u331	Thank you very much. The whole of Slovenia was invited to report something that could be great and reported it. I think that in these 61 consortiums, everything or almost everything has come together, I allow that some company, some knowledge institution, may not have had the resources at that time to get these calls. But here's the thing about reporters. In this context, it is important to acknowledge that they have decided, tried, made extensive, demanding projects and all those chosen to participate. Through this we have all got quite a close look at this, these data are also published on the Ministry's website and I invite all of us to look together at what we are going through in terms of an excellent developmental science in Slovenia. Whether it is a surprise that he has received three projects as a bearer company - and I am pointing to logic - we are eager to achieve a greater impact of the economy and a greater transfer of this knowledge, and also a greater exploitation of expensive research equipment, which will actually be possible to purchase here on the only invitation to tender - we have demanded that at least two institutions, at least two companies, be set up together to set up an institution in each consortium. Through the management body of this institution, they will jointly decide what they will do within the approved project, which equipment they will buy, what they will serve and so on. Where this establishment will have its seat is not predetermined. However, that bearing projects are those, for example, that he has received the highest marks on three of these evaluators; and this commission has exclusively measured the criteria in the tender and it would be difficult if we wanted to pursue these basic goals, otherwise we could say the goal of the centre of excellence is something else; Joseph Stefan, our largest institute. Here you had the opportunity, for example, a while ago, I think a few months ago, Prof. Dr. Mihajlovich taught about nanotechnology, one of the winners, carriers of this project. You've seen from his presentation how he's involved in economic design, how he's on the verge of what's going on in this science, and if he doesn't get it, it would be a disappointment to me, not personally, but if Joseph Stephen, as the greatest institution in 800 Doctors of Science, didn't look great, then we're throwing away money when we're funding Joseph Stefan. I do not think this is a surprise, but they are in consortia, I stress, involved companies from all Slovenia, I can list you, from all Slovenia, colleges from all universities. However, let us be clear, Slovenia is as big as it is, if we want to compete with Europe, we need to concentrate the potential that we have throughout Slovenia. And in this way we will achieve that knowledge, this excellence will move and spread across Slovenia in some way, but I can't imagine any better if we don't want to sacrifice the criteria and this is just about excellence.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-09-21-SDZ5-Redna-09.ana.u332	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. We have thus concluded the question of Members and Members and the answers to them. I thank Mr President of the Government, ministers and ministers for the answers given. Our proposals or your proposals to hold a debate on the answers to individual questions will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, Tuesday, 22 September 2009, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. The vote on the proposals will take place tomorrow. We'll continue the meeting tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you very much. Good-bye. Good night.
