ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-06.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 6th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Dara Lavtijar Bebler, Franci Kek and Tsvetka Zalokar Orazem. I've invited government representatives to the meeting. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the agenda of the 6th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda by reference to the 4 February 2009 meeting. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda, so we are moving on to setting the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving to the vote. Please, procedurally? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-06.ana.u2	Mr President, this assembly held a debate on 29 January and voted on a document we have today again in the form of an extraordinary meeting. As a Member, I am interested in the commercial interpretation or legal interpretation of such behaviour by the Government and also by the National Assembly, on the fact that we are voting on the same document, and I see no reason in the Rules of Procedure to repeat the vote on the already voted closing account. Therefore, since some doubts have already been raised on the committee itself and some Members have highlighted the fact that there is no business basis for such a meeting, I am interested in the legal and business interpretation. I am not interested in a political explanation, I am only interested in whether there is a reason in the Rules of Procedure for today's extraordinary meeting, which is the precedent in the history of our parliamentary democracy, at least in this form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-06.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The answer is simple. Business provisions do not prevent any re-examination and then vote on a law or act that was not adopted in the National Assembly. I would like to point out that the question wrongly assumes that it is only a matter of re-voting. The re-voting is not the case here, it is the re-examination of the aca, which has been rejected at one of the other meetings, and there are, in this respect, no obstacles in business, not to the consideration and vote on this act at an extraordinary meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-06.ana.u4	One procedural question or warning. You just said that we are not repeating the vote today, but that it is essentially a new process. If this is a new procedure, I wonder why today there is no right to debate for Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-06.ana.u5	Very simple. As it is said, the College of the President of the National Assembly unanimously stated that this would be dealt with in accordance with Article 67(2) and thus set a work plan for this meeting. Thank you very much. I therefore propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as referred to. We're moving to the vote. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to check the functioning of their voting device, which means that an orange light must burn on the right hand side of the card. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 66 votes against 6. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the agenda of the 6th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. Agenda item - Defence proposal for the final budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2007 The proposal for a final account was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government to complete the explanation of the proposal for the final account. The Secretary of State has the floor. Helena Kamnar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-06.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members, honourable Members! Given that the National Assembly did not adopt the final budget account for 2007 at its previous meeting, the final budget account should be re-examined. The first phase was carried out by the Government in such a way that the existing accounts were dealt with at its meeting on 30 January. At this meeting, she concluded that the final accounts of the 2007 budget show the surplus balance in the general part of the budget. At the same time, it took note of the Court of Auditors’ audit report, which indicates that the budget balance is not properly shown and therefore the result is also different from that of the Court of Auditors. The Government found that the Court of Auditors did not impose a correction of the final account in its report to the Government, nor did the Commission for Budgetary Control in the National Assembly impose a decision on the Government to correct the final account. The legal acts governing such matters do not solve the question of how to act in this case. In its conclusions, the Government has therefore concluded that this legal void will, as soon as possible, remove and address the Government's conduct in similar situations. Furthermore, the Government concluded that the audit procedure did not address the shortcomings which were finally demonstrated in the Court of Auditors' report and therefore concluded that it was not in a position to propose to the National Assembly a different text of the final budget account than that already dealt with. Nevertheless, it has entered into a firm commitment to take full account of the recommendations or findings of the Court of Auditors in the preparation of the final accounts for 2008 and, of course, to take full account of the 2009 budget rebalancing and to present the balance sheet in the manner required by the Court of Auditors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-06.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The proposal for a final account was addressed by the Commission for the supervision of public finances. I'm giving the president a word. Mr Andre Visiak for presentation of the report of the Commission. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-06.ana.u8	The Honourable President of the National Assembly. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government. Colleagues and colleagues. That's right. At half ten today, the Public Finance Supervisory Commission, which reviewed this point, also met. And in the debate of Members and Members, it was also felt this inconvenientness, why the re-examination of the same thing. It has also been explained here that it is already a matter of re-examination and re-examination of the material which has been re-submitted to the National Assembly. Therefore, the debate on the content itself and the different interpretations of the provisions of the law, which in fact caused this crucial dilemma, was further opened. I must point out that the Government has submitted an identical text and that the Commission, with six votes in favour and two votes against, has also adopted a decision proposing, on the basis of Rule 168 of the Rules of Procedure, to the National Assembly that, following its consideration of the Proposal for a Final Account, it adopts a decision to adopt the final accounts of the Republic of Slovenia for 2007.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-06.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mrs Breda Pecan has the floor, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-06.ana.u10	Hello! Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Good day to Members and Members, good day to all present and, of course, good day to the representatives of the Government! The position of the Group of Social Democrats until the end of the 2007 budget account remains unchanged. We are still convinced that in the previous term, the Government has systematically ignored the Court of Auditors' audit disclosures, which, like the Anti-Corruption Commission, the Ombudsman and the Constitutional Court, were considered as non-necessary only when their findings are in line with the opinion of the ruling team. Thus, it is not unusual that, at the time of the 2007 audit of the final budget account, when the Court of Auditors is in a third sequence, a similar trend was observed in the 2005 and 2006 audit of the final accounts, a warning of the Government's avoiding the correct representation of expenditure in the general part of the budget and of the debt in the financing account, when the Ministry of Finance failed to make corrections and did not provide a transparent and fair representation of the actual state of the state budget at the time of the audit, namely EUR 9 million in deficit and not EUR 37 million in surplus. This is also the only correct and legally acceptable way of correcting final accounts. Similarly, in the 2005 audit of the final account, when the balance sheet of revenue and expenditure did not show the financing of the Public Institute of the Oncology Institute of Ljubljana, the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance of Slovenia and the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia for which the State had taken over the debt and because debt collection was not shown to be in debt to the State in the financing account, it was also repeated in the final account for 2006 when no ongoing transfers were made to the victims of war and post-war violence in the form of transfer of the capital share of the General Navigation of Portorož and investment transfers to the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. The only difference is that in 2005 and 2006, due to a very similar manoeuvre, minor budget deficits were shown, while for 2007 there was a fictional budget surplus. Let me do it again. The current transfers in 2007 did not show any payments of more than EUR 43 and a half million to the beneficiaries for investing in the public telecommunications network, nor did the current expenditure on interest on the established funds and the charged costs of the Slovenian compensation company amounting to almost EUR two and a half million. Of course, the final result of the 2007 budget balance of revenue and expenditure is appropriate, given these two figures, negative, amounting to EUR 9 million and several thousand. Thus, the remuneration in the financing account is shown to be too low because the assets of the Slovenian Compensation Company for the payment of beneficiaries' funds to invest in the public telecommunications network and interest and the charged costs of the Slovenian Compensation Company are not shown as the remuneration from the debt of more than EUR 46 million. This masked the fact that the difference between debt and debt repayment was not more than €73 million in favour of debt repayment, but only slightly over €27 million. Therefore, the reaction of the SDS champion, who, in his infinite resentment and indignation, is a perfectly natural decision by Members to once place a limit on ignoring the warnings of the Court of Auditors, declares ideological rematching entirely in line with the former government's former party and its leader's practices. Directly funny is the prozaic thing, such as the requirement for proper accounting of individual business events to be labeled ideological behavior and rematchism. If nothing else can be attributed to the current largest government party, which has not run a coalition so far and has neither had any Minister of Finance. It is even more childish to say that 2007 was the first year in history, of course the independent Slovenia, which the country ended with a budget surplus. There is no way for a person not to look a few years ago and collect data on several more budgets from the Slovenian history of autonomy that ended with a budget surplus. For example, budgets in 1992, 1993, 1994, 1995 and 1996. It's nothing to be afraid of, is it? Why, then, would it be so shocking that history did not repeat itself in 2007 and the numbers played by the Ministry of Finance at least three times in a row, as stated in the 2005 final accounts, 2006 and 2007, have not been met again, although the Ministry has for the third time ignored repeated warnings from the Court of Auditors, but this time with a wonderful success, a heavy budget surplus. Much better than in 2005 and 2006, when misrepresentation of debt brought only a reduction of the budget deficit. In all three years, the Court of Auditors of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and thus to the Ministry of Finance, issued an opinion on the proposal for a general part of the final account with reservations and each time found a minor or significant difference in the amount of the budget deficit. Of course in the direction of increasing the negative result and not vice versa. Therefore, it is not unusual, of course, if the champion of the largest opposition party who cannot bear the simplest truth, if not by his will, to point out that the ruling coalition of parties in the mandate of 2004/2008 has accepted the final accounts even for 2003 and 2004, even though the present-day government of Anton Rope has hidden 70 billion tolars of holes in those final accounts. Again, contrary to the true truth. First time. In 2005, when we accepted the 2003 final account, which received a positive opinion for the general part of the Court of Auditors, on 22 February, the coalition did not consider that it had accepted the final bill. All Members present and Members of the SDS and NSI voted, without exception, against the decision to confirm the final account. They were unanimously joined by the present Members and the SNS Member. While MEPs DeSUS and SLS voted with MEPs and members of the opposition, except for the SNS, for understandable reasons. The result was 43 for and 40 for, just because members of the then coalition, who had previously been members of the previous coalition, felt that it was not possible to reject the final budget account which they co-formed. And a second time. In the vote on the decision on the confirmation of the 2004 final budget account, which has been fully drawn up by the new authority, the situation has re-emphasized. With this difference, the result was even closer. 22 to 21 at seventy-seven. It is said that as many as 16 Members present have not expressed their views. Members of the SDS, NSI and SNS voted against only. None of these three groups voted in favour. It is interesting, though, to see who were the chosen ones to press the quorum. The cream itself in the SDS. Those who had to vote against having to take a look at that vote today will see who was in this room four years ago a squirm and who was not. All of these irregularities and the concealment of the actual results of the management of the State budget in 2007 have led us Members and Members of the Group of Social Democrats to conclude that the proposal for a final budget account for 2007 is non-transparent and inconsistent with sectoral legislation. However, because we are aware of our responsibility to our country, to our fellow citizens and to our fellow citizens, and to the international community, and in particular we want to strengthen our country's international position and reputation, we will vote on the final accounts of the 2007 budget, as always, responsible and cost-effective.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-06.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Jože Taka has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-06.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable President of the Government, colleague and colleague. Due to the impertinent and immature behaviour of the government coalition at the meeting of the National Assembly a few days ago, we need to resume today's debate and vote on the accounts for 2007. We can say calmly that the coalition today has a retrial and our Group wishes you to succeed. The closing account, which was resubmitted in the unchanged text to the National Assembly of the Pahorje government, is a certificate of the work of the previous government for the financial year 2007, in which the development trends of Slovenia have changed markedly and improved. After more than ten years and for the first time since our public finances have been measured according to the European methodology, the income and expenditure balance has been positive. The country spent less money than it collected. However, the surplus in 2007 had not only a narrower budget but overall public finances. The country as a whole has been doing positive business. At the end of 2004, when the previous coalition took over the Government, it inherited a basic deficit of EUR 300 and fifty million, and some capital recorded for the month of teachers' salaries and also hid more than ten million deficits on state railways. In 2007, Slovenia, as a whole, already recorded the surplus under the new government, despite the fact that in 2007 we reduced the income tax, the corporate income tax and the elimination of half the tax on paid salaries. If there were no such tax burdens on the economy and the population, the public surplus in 2007 would be even higher by a billion euros. It is important to stress, however, that no public system, not education, not health, not social, has been shaken. On the contrary, there were more resources in all areas. In this achievement, the Government did not resort to various budgetary tricks, such as the former Minister of Finance Gaspari in 1997, now the head of the crisis group of ministers, who, with a one-month extension of the budget year's revenue for force, covered the budget. Despite this trick, the Gaspari still created one percent of the deficit. In 2007, the government of Janša further strongly reduced the country's public debt, which fell well below the level of the previous governments. If it was public debt in 2004, when Janša's government took over the helm, 27.2% of GDP was only 23.4% in 2007. Such a reduction in the share of debt in gross social product has not been achieved in such a short time by any other Member State of the European Union. This was possible because Slovenia has developed faster due to its reforms, and because public spending has been declining because rationalisations have started with budget users, because blind bowels have been reduced in which money has previously leaked unproductively because there has been a lot of simplification because unnecessary stickers and other bureaucratic barriers have been removed because people have become more productive and because the number of employees in the civil part of the public administration has been reduced. Reforms in tax, labour, social, administrative and other areas were implemented in 2006 and 2007, even in part, in some areas with very strong support from former opposition parties. If there were more cooperation in the previous term, more could also be done and the results that the current coalition is praising abroad today could be even better. High economic growth was based on high investment and export growth. Growth in employment and wages have significantly improved the social image of the country. The rate and number of unemployed have dropped markedly. They were both the lowest since their independence and could still be listed. If we reach back a little bit, in the period before 2004, when the LDS governments dominated, mostly with strong support from the Social Democrats, it ignites the well-known password of the "Success Story", which is one of the political parties; in fact, all its satellites; successfully sold on the political market. Despite persistent and high budget deficits, despite the acrobatics in the balance sheet, despite untransparent and illegal privatisations and the growth of public spending, the "Success Story" was launched. That is why the coalition is now asking a question; how to define 2007 and 2008 or the entire past mandate, when the achievements for you were such unwanted government teams were actually "a success story" and with a real basis. There is no doubt that there are real results, and that is what common sense speaks of. Europe claims the same, so the former finance minister received two high European awards for Slovenia's public financial achievements. The current prime minister also boasts with his crisis team of ministers on European tours the economic strength of Slovenia, with stable public finances and with a successful presidency. Finance Minister Križanič also discusses the decisive financial basis of the previous mandate. So what led the coalition not to allow the final accounts to be accepted for 2007? Was it fear that you would not achieve such results? Who was given such an idea? It may have been the Minister of Gaspari who, in his previous application, bought the bonds of the failed Lehman Brothers, who had previously drafted the Constitutional Act on the New Ljubljana Bank, which had brought strategic damage to the Slovenian economy and further burdened relations between Slovenia and Croatia, while transferring part of the functions to the European Central Bank instead of rationalisation, employed additional people to the burden of taxpayers. It is absurd that such a minister sends the past to the government with regard to the closure of the 2007 account. It is even more absurd that someone who, at the outbreak of the global financial crisis, was the first to lose public property, the main lifesaver and exit strategy. Dear Members of the Government Coalition! You have today's exam and we suggest you take it seriously. Of course, you can also read newspapers in the lobby, abstain or vote for 2 + 2 = 3. However, in this case you will show that you are not able to take responsibility for the simplest vote, let alone for changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-06.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Villa Trofenik has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-06.ana.u14	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to all present! The final state budget account, which is the largest of four public treasury accounts, well reflects the implementation of an important part of the policy. For this reason, it is imperative that when deciding on the final account, we assess the degree of consistency between the planned and realised, of course, recorded in a legitimate manner. Any other behavior is pointless and unacceptable. Since we have already referred our views to the proposed 2007 Final Account proposal and have already identified ourselves to the proposal for a final account, it is pointless to repeat the facts already identified and transmitted, which will not change, if we postpone the decision indefinitely. However, it is possible to add some particular emphasis or conclusions that have not been observed or otherwise ignored at the time of the consideration of the final account. The 2007 Final Account proposal under consideration is not only a problem of shortcomings in terms of illegal recording of the revenue and expenditure of the State budget and, consequently, of misrepresentation of the result, according to the Court of Auditors, but also of inadequate planning of both budgetary revenues and, to a greater extent, of budgetary expenditure. If the budget proposal for 2007 did not know or could not fully anticipate developments on the budget revenue and expenditure side at its adoption in November 2006, it was obliged to do so when the 2007 budget implementation report was submitted on the basis of its six-month implementation, which it was obliged to prepare in accordance with Article 63 of the Public Finance Act, and also submitted this report to the National Assembly on 31 July 2007. In this report, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has announced the loss of income from income for the symbolic EUR 5 million, in fact the realization has exceeded the plan by EUR 28 million. Furthermore, an unacceptable income from corporate income tax was forecast and a surplus of €86 million was actually realised. The report forecasted an increase in the value added tax by €16 million, in fact exceeding €72 million and so on. Tax revenues exceeded the projected amount of €270 million and virtually more than covered the total loss of funds from the European Union budget. Although the report of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia finds, on the basis of a six-month implementation in 2007, an extremely poor realisation of EU funds; which was only drawn up in the first half of the year under review at the level of one quarter of the planned, for example, from the Structural Funds, for only 8%, from cohesion, only 3.4%; however, a loss of €36.8 million was forecast by the end of the year in the area of structural funds. According to the government's assessment, this decrease of €176 million, in the area of cohesion, the government has planned a decrease of €28.6 million, actually amounting to a decrease of €66 million. The reasons for the poor realization are repeated all the time late, quote, late calls and planned realization in the second half of the year, but no measures to improve the situation in the report have been detected. The purpose of the annual budget implementation report is to assess revenue and expenditure by the end of the year and to prepare appropriate measures on the basis of an evaluation. There's also a rebalance in the final sequence. It is clear that the assessments submitted were inadequate. Both on the revenue side and on the expenditure side. The government announced on the revenue side that these would be realised at 7 billion 706 million. They were realized at 7 billion, 799 or 93 million more. However, a tax surplus of only 25 million was forecast. In fact, the tax surplus was EUR 270 million. The EU deficit was forecast at €65.4 million. Indeed, the decline of 235 million euros has been realised. The cost estimate was 8 billion and 30 million. In fact, it is realized by 268 million lower amount. In this report, the government still announced a government deficit of 1% of the gross social product on 31 July 2007. On the basis of this, it is not only an illegal recording and, as a result, an unwarranted result and shortcomings in the implementation of the budget, according to the Supreme Auditor's findings, but also a final account for 2007 which is also an inadequate effort not to say that the National Assembly has failed in adopting the budget in November 2006 and in presenting the report on its inter-annual implementation or forecasting of the budgetary revenue and expenditure by the end of 2007, which were forwarded to the National Assembly, as has already been said, on 31 July 2007. This is in a given real macroeconomic environment, which has otherwise been significantly more favourable than forecasts, and it has been possible to sanction the real situation or movements by means of a rebalancing. However, it should be pointed out that in 2007 the first year of the Law on the Financing of Municipalities, which resulted in a final reduction in the global resources allocated to municipalities, from 5.14% of gross domestic product in 2006 to 4.96% of gross domestic product in 2007, at the same time as the fall in investment transfers from the state budget to municipalities, amounting to EUR 146 million or a major part of the loss of all investment transfers in the national budget, which also represents the largest deviation in the implementation of budgetary expenditure, which cannot be justified solely by the loss of EU funds. The result, of course, is that the municipalities are unhappy and increasingly indebted to municipal budgets. The final account problem for 2007 is significantly broader than the framework in some way imposed on the credibility of the data presented. Unfortunately, even in the re-examination, it is not possible to show the essence of the issue throughout its width, and it is also misleading to believe that the recording of revenue or expenditure is the only problem of the 2007 final account, but at least that would require an appropriate assessment in terms of the quality of budget planning that we will be deciding on today. In the given situation, of course, each of our fellow Members will make their own decision in re-decision on the final budget for 2007. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-06.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Rezman has the floor, on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-06.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On behalf of the DeSUS Group, we have decided not to be too active in these attempts to throw mud kebabs over a ditch that separates coalition and opposition. Nor will we list all possible numbers, results and failures and the past, I do not know from what history we can draw them all from, because we estimate that this, in fact, this concealment of the substance of the problem does not lead to the result that is desired. We estimate that it would actually be best if it were not for this meeting, because today's session is not due to the final budget, but because of the political prestige that everyone wants. But the question is whether many, let's put it this way, must suffer from this unnecessary functioning. We regret the mystery we have come into, we would like to come out of this with as little controversy as possible, so that we can simply learn some basic truths and yet find that we are not separated by so many results of the final account, but perhaps by a modest political culture, so that what is good can be taken for good and what is bad can be considered bad. Learned from this and took a step further. It is indisputable for us that the 2007 accounts speak of events that took place at that time, in 2007, in business events, in their books and so on. What post-festum "make up" can only be camouflage, which in reality does not change anything. It is undeniable that some of the results discussed in this final account are very good and in the DeSUS Group, which participated in the previous coalition, we are proud of what is good, even proud. It is undeniable that what the Court of Auditors has found must also be recognized as bad as errors. After all, as a possibility or attempt to manipulate certain facts and figures. This does not say anything about two and two being recognized for three, but says something about two times two four, and some are unhappy about it. It's a symptom of political neuroticity when the truth hurts us, but it's not right for us to. It would be better for the truth to admit that we would also call sin a sin and try to eliminate it. In the DeSUS Group, we have no need to tarnish, as has been the case, as we have read from some other parties, who have talked about how sacrifices must now be made in order to be able to accept the final bill. Perhaps someone will require another monument for the victim of the 2007 final account. We don't need to worry about how now we have to put up with those who have to suffer to defend abroad the reputation of the country that we have, of course, lost in our previous meeting due to poor political culture. And we have no prejudice to confirm this final account, because we supported it in the first attempt in half. True, he was not supported by all. Perhaps not because some of the messages from government services were very embarrassing. czš, it doesn't matter what you do. We would like to say that, at least for us, some of the Rules of Procedure have been established by the abuse, in particular the rule on obstruction, on absence. For this is saying, I quote, so I have brought this letter with me: "...that this absence may be indicated in the context of the consideration of the particular item of the agenda, and that it shall be justified." And what happened to the alleged obstruction at the previous meeting was something like this, because the final account had been linked to the declaration on Albania and Croatia, something like that, if we connected the Children's Daycare Act with the declaration on Croatia and Albania or some other law. So it wasn't the proper use of the institute of obstruction. Therefore, we believe that now it will be necessary to recognize that we were ignorant, that we were foolish, that we had come into a situation that was not for the benefit of anyone. And it may be necessary to rethink today's vote and our political wisdom towards the end of this session. In particular, because I doubt that it is very correct to sign a request for an extraordinary meeting, the sole purpose of which is to confirm the closure of the account, while at the same time noting that the signatory will vote against it. It is said that in the past days, we have not learned much from what has happened. I hope that today's debate will only help. The DeSUS Group will try to help by supporting the final account, allowing all its Members to decide on their conscience. However, we guarantee that there will be no one among us who would oppose the adoption of the final account.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-06.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Zmago Jelinčič Trimeniti has the floor, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-06.ana.u18	Nice hello to you all! Well, today we're going to ask ourselves whether we have democracy or we don't have democracy, whether we have a rule of law or something else. For what is happening today is far from some democracy, European democracy, and very close to some totalitarian regimes, where certain matters have been voted on for as long as they have not been voted on in the manner of the ruling structure. I wonder how many times we're gonna vote if things don't work out again today. Will we vote until the result is right? Or what are we gonna do? How many more exams will it take? I think it's already a re-examination exam for democracy. That's not how it's supposed to be done. That's not how democracy works. It was said that the Institute of Obstruction had been abused. He wasn't being abused. The Institute of Obstruction is legitimate and no one has the right to question it. If a political option decides to obstruct it, it has the right to do so. The voters gave her legitimacy, and she's doing it her way of thinking like she thinks she's right. Otherwise we go back to where we were - when we're all sitting here, one will say how to press and we'll press. Whoever pushes it differently, they'll take him out and he won't come back. I'm not the kind of "creatures" they used to be. Therefore, I think it is right that in Parliament there is a conflict of opinion that obstructions are, that one thinks so, another thinks otherwise. Conditioning is another thing. In fact, we indirectly ask ourselves why conditionality. What if this conditionality can bring something good? Today it has been said that it suffers the reputation of the state of Slovenia in the world. Please! Our country's reputation is damn low in the world. Just because we don't hope to say bob beans, because we always bow to the left, to the right, and we're always ready to take some steps back, only that the neighbors will be happy, only that we'll be good, only that some bald secretary or a bald European commissioner will pat us on the shoulder, he said, because you're good. Then he'll go to lunch with the others, and he won't look at us anymore because he doesn't need us. They don't need boys. They're boys to clean your boots and then send them back to the corner. And that's how they send us back to the corner. There is talk of the international situation of Slovenia. Well, please! Croatia has a hundred and fifty times more international position than Slovenia has, precisely because it is not allowed because it is their country of the world. We're sacred to international treaties, and we're a manhunt, and we're climbing somewhere. The Croats know what they want. Speaking of the responsibility and state-of-the-art of the Republic of Slovenia, I will read only one sentence published by the Morning Paper 30. 1st of this year on page 5. The title says like this, I will read in Croatian and then translate: "Zagreb is similar to NATO and the cards attached there are not disputed. In the event of entry into the European Union, the same cards are the biggest problem." In short, in other words: Croatians themselves recognise that they have deposited the same maps in the NATO Pact documentation as in the EU documentation. And how will the Slovenian state have credibility if its own government lies to its own people? Our government claimed there were no maps. Our government was hiding the paperwork. What credibility? What kind of exam? This is for sacks from school, not for a juvie exam. It is a shame that we are ready to sell our own national interest for someone to like us and that we will buy here, how many votes will go to one side and how many votes will go to the other. Yes, Madonna Santa! We Slovenians are a proud nation that has won all wars and lost in all wars. After every war, we've lost a lot of things and now we're gonna lose again or what? Aren't you ashamed? I'm embarrassed! Me and the Slovenian National Party are deeply ashamed of many of you. At NOB, our people lost their lives for things like this. So that some people here, in their own words, will piss on that memory. That's terrible! It's horrible, it's embarrassing, and I don't know what else to say! In this vote, one also asks whether we need the National Assembly at all to vote or repeat the vote indefinitely. As long as it's not after the man who demanded it all. Do We Need a National Assembly? We don't need to. Let's call it off. Come on, let's shut it down! We've had this sort of thing, and we're supposed to decide about democracy. I hear we've decided on multilateralism, and now it's all going wrong. And let's make a new one, it doesn't have to be communist, it can be a nucomist party, it doesn't have to be exactly the same. And we sit in here and we nod, and we go to celebrations, and we clap, and we congratulate each other, and we share decorations, congratulations, and I don't know what else. And it's gonna be just like it was. And everyone will be happy. Including Slovenian voters, for whom I hope that one day they will miss that their minds will hit their heads and I don't know what. I think we've gone into some sort of internationalism here. Back to internationalism. Proletarians of all lands unite! Again this is, and again we must help the brothers of the Croats, and those brothers, and those brothers. Our interest doesn't matter. It is not important to obtain financial resources, it is not important to acquire the national spirit of patriotism, it is not important that we can also get some part of the Slovenian national territory back now because it was stolen from us from the upper, lower, left and right. No! No! We'll be good. We'll agree to say, "Yes." And if anyone hits us, we'll be lucky if they miss the whip next time. It appears to be a characteristic of us. That we are happy when we are beaten and even happier when every tenth blow may be missed. Doesn't anybody read Cankar? What other Slovenian writers could say about our soul and spirituality? Indeed, no one reads history to see that the Slovenian nation has also had proud days and not only slave days as they will, one of these days, even today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-06.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Janez Ribič has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-06.ana.u20	Hello! Proposal for a final account of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2007. Position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Mr President of the National Assembly, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, welcome back to the final budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2007. The 2007 budget was adopted in 2005, and its amendments were adopted at the end of 2006 and its rebalancing was made in July. Now we have a final account, which has become the main political theme and problem of this period. The economic and financial crisis of the real economy, Croatia and so on are topics that are completely irrelevant at the moment. The biggest problem in our country right now is whether the final account shows EUR 9 million in deficit or EUR 37 million in surplus. In general, if we look at the comparison with all past budget surpluses or deficits. In our view, in this context, this is a completely irrelevant issue, a dispute on the backdrop of the shadow. We agree, however, that this is a prestigious issue. It would be responsible for the current coalition to recognise the evident achievements of the past government. This would certainly be a good way to realise the government's announcement of proper and constructive cooperation with the opposition. Since the government coalition has consistently been telling the truth about the poor use of European funds, let me take the time to repeat some of the facts in this place. The Court of Auditors in its special report on European Union funds in the final accounts notes that only a little less than 60% of the planned revenue has been realised from European funds. This information does not reflect the actual situation. The only relevant period for assessing the effectiveness of European funds drawback is a period covering the entire programming period, rather than data on the use of funds within each financial year. Some other members of the European Union have thus resolved this issue. According to the information available to us for the date 31. 12. For the 2006-2008 programming period, Slovenia realised the share of payments from the budget of 94% at the level of the Structural Funds. The share of payment applications submitted to the European Union's paying authority was 80% on that date, bearing in mind that the proportion of contracts signed at that date was 107%. The situation today is likely to be nearing maximum efficiency, but we have not yet received accurate data from the Government. However, from the Cohesion Fund, 51% of the funds were spent on transport at that date and 37% in the environment, while the funds must be spent by the end of 2010. The data for the 2007-2013 programming period, from this date, also show that already €1.5 billion of the total €4.1 billion available for the whole period has been awarded or certified. Of course, it is now the responsibility of the government coalition to ensure that the remaining funds continue to be used. The failure of the government coalition in this area will not be able to overwhelm the previous coalition. Therefore, we cannot agree on the basis of these facts with the Court of Auditors' assessment and with the flat-rate estimates which appear in the public opinion that Slovenia is making poor use of European funds. Even less on the basis of these facts, we can talk about the loss of revenue from the European budget. It's purely a deceiving of the public. Nor is it justified to talk about Slovenia being a net payer in the European budget. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we estimate that the implementation of the budget was successful in 2007. Members of the Slovenian People's Party will confirm the final account again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-06.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-06.ana.u22	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I did not believe, especially after these explanations, that such a day could be achieved in the Slovenian Parliament. That some think that we will be doing a correctional exam, I think that today those others who have cooked this whole story must do it, not those who are required to do it. Yesterday was an important and ruined day for Slovenians, a cultural holiday, and one of Prešern's songs, Elegia, said to her last cousins: "Silent song! "Thou shalt not proclaim the pain of our wounds, if the shame of our death be on thee, home, my Kranjc, a faithful fast!" And that's what this is about - home and given words we must remain faithful. We do not perform any correctional exams at the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. We have, procedurally, in accordance with all the rules and all the laws, done our task, as our conscience and conviction command us, in the previous meeting. We voted in accordance with our conscience and circled "against". Why did we circle against it? Because this country has certain institutions whose decisions and actions are not commented on and respected. This, on the one hand, applies to the Constitutional Court and, on the other hand, to the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors is an institution that has its reputation, its autonomy, the one which, in the case of financial disputes and unresolved situations, Slovenia must believe. And we believe her. And if the Court of Auditors says that something's wrong, that it's been misread, that it's a minus, then that's the way it is. This is not being discussed and is not being traded and is not being Parliamented. And at the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we have decided on the basis of the Court of Auditors' substantial reflections as we have, and today there is no reason for us to vote differently. What did the President of the Court of Auditors say? The President of the Court of Auditors said that their findings on the draft final budget account were the same as they were at the time of the initial hearing. On the proposal for a general part of the accounts, the Court of Auditors delivered an opinion with reservation. The main two comments submitted to the general part of the final account concerned the taking over of the debt of the Public Railway Agency and the reimbursement of the funds to beneficiaries under the Law on the return of investments in the public telecommunications network. If all the obligations had been recorded as the Court of Auditors considers them correct, they would have accounted for EUR 9 million in deficit, not EUR 37 million in surplus. And that is the essence of this story, and also what our decision was based on. I am pleased that the Government, which has become the hostage of a blackmailing story, has succeeded at least this after the same closing account has sent us back to Parliament, that it has promised and clearly stated that the practice of this government will be different. In fact, she decided to correct the errors found in the final accounts for 2008. For this moment we are talking not about last year, but about the pre-Last snow and the final account for 2007. We have not received a different opinion from the Court of Auditors in the last 14 days that it has changed its opinion on the closing account, that it has been wrong or something like that. Nor does it consider that it would discuss the competence and qualifications of any court's decisions. As citizens, Members, it is simply that we respect the laws and decisions of these courts, including those we may not like. The rule of law remains or falls. If it seems to us Members that a law is bad or that we are obliged to change it - that is what the citizens have given us - that we do not change such a law and respect it, or that we propose another. We have already decided on the final accounts for this unfortunate year of 2007. We have told our own, and there is no reason to repeat the decision indefinitely, so we will not vote in such a vote. It is possible, however, that these moments of opportunity for those others who have cooked this story to pass the correctional exam successfully. I am pleased that the European, global and, above all, the Slovenian public have made them clear and have shown them with their finger. These, however, suggest that their decision on the story of extortion, where the temporary internal political benefits have come before the country's important interests and the resolution of a dispute. Today, they can take a big step toward repairing their backs and get off that train that they jumped on carelessly. And this is a message from this story, and also a message from yesterday, when it was a holiday, where it was about patriotism, the homeland, and pride, that all those who think it's right, we do what we did the last time. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia we once again condemn this shameful act of blackmail and our decisions for the happiness of Slovenia, I hope we do not change anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-06.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We're moving to the vote of the assembly. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to check the functioning of their voting device, which means that an orange light must burn on the right hand side of the card. We're voting. You want an explanation of the voice? You need to take this. I've waited so long for what kind of parliamentary group to explain the voice? [[...]] I am opening an application for explanations of vote on behalf of the groups of Members. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-06.ana.u24	Thank you very much. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the final budget account for 2007, because we are confident that both the Court of Auditors' audit report and the figures in the final account testify to an extremely successful year. And more. When we also addressed the final budget account for 2007 on 15 January, there was not a single vote against the Member and Members of the home labour force. The final budget account for 2007 was unanimously supported on the home work body. This means that the substantive discussion, which lasted for quite some time, was supported both by the views of the Ministry of Finance and the Court of Auditors, demonstrated unanimous support for the 2007 accounts. What happened from this vote from this hearing to the spoils? I don't know, but obviously there have been some political decisions not to do so in plenary. I'm a different, esteemed Prime Minister. I can't explain it. The expert, a calm and well-founded discussion showed unanimous support, and later there were changes in the position, including the Members and Members, who voted differently in the plenary than before on the Commission. Therefore, it is not true that there are any professional arguments for rejecting the closing account. It was the politicalisation, the politicalization of a successful economic, financial and public financial year 2007 particularly successful, which was ultimately reflected through the rejection of the final account, for the first time in the history of Slovenia. And the stumbling block was the different position of the Ministry of Finance from the Court of Auditors regarding the booking of this transfer related to the return of investments in the public telecommunications network. From the working body's magnetogram, it is more than obvious that the Ministry of Finance has always interpreted the provisions of the law on the return of investments to the public telecommunications network and has also insisted on the committee itself. The Court of Auditors gave its opinion with reservation and did not require correction. So there is no reason for us to vote differently today than we have accepted this final account.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-06.ana.u25	Thank you very much. I open applications for explanations of vote on behalf of Members and Members. Please. Mr. Damian Perne has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-06.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! Last time, at that suspended session, I voted once. And that's when I voted against it. I don't think at this time anything has happened to me to change my mind. But I'm aware of the responsibility. Today there has been something already said about responsibility, and I think that we all know on this side that we have a responsibility, that some of our internal divisions, bad will and disappointment cannot be the reason for putting some important issues on the sidelines or even putting a normal vote on it. I object to this, so today I will eat the bitter drool and I will not vote in favour, but I will press the quorum because I think I voted once before and say what I think about that closing account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-06.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-06.ana.u28	Mr President, honourable Members! I will vote as I have already voted on the same closing account ten days ago. I do not understand what we should change our position today, after it has become even clearer in these ten days, that the final accounts for 2007 are inconsistent with the findings of the Court of Auditors and even with the documentation, with the 9 million-dollar gap that has been transmitted to the European Commission. I will vote against it because I don't feel and I don't want to be the hostage of any blackmail. When it comes to ethics and consistency, we can't even be hostages of the alleged expansion of the Atlantic Union. I will vote against it because those who threaten to obstruct or condition the ratification of NATO enlargement are bluffing, bluffing, and bluffing. My voice "against" will not be the only voice against such a closing account, because I have already given it in my explanation in the previous session. My voice is against the policy of blackmail and even more against the policy of such dishonorable indulgence, against the policy of playing the truth and insulting the dignity and intelligence of us Members and Members of Parliament and citizens who observe us and expect us to be serious and credible. That is why I will consistently vote against it with my conscience.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-06.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr. Loize has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-06.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I myself have already explained and voted in the previous session, as I am sure it is right to vote on the final account. Today I would only say what was said earlier in the presentation that we voted unanimously in favour of the members of the home committee of the Financial Control Commission and then changed our decision and voted "against" Parliament. That, Mr. Visac, is not true. At the debate in the home body, we highlighted the position of the Court of Auditors and voted in favour of such a budget, assuming that the irregularities identified were corrected. Please, if you look. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-06.ana.u31	There's no controversy, Comrade Posedel. He can't argue.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-06.ana.u32	I apologize, but on the side that has led us to talk today about who will gain prestige, who will win here, it is also right to say that at that meeting of the parental committee, at the session of the Parliament and today, we have listened to things that do not hold, so there is no reason to change our vote, as I did in the previous session. Maybe it's just to think, if you get a game in sports, it burns you your whole life. But if you lose the game, it burns you or you're only offended until the next game.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-06.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivo Wiggle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-06.ana.u34	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Dear Mr. President, the Honourable President of the Government! The Committee on Foreign Policy, which I chair, is 26. 1. The necessary two-thirds majority adopted the Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the Protocol on the Accession of Croatia and Albania to the Next Connection. At the meeting of the National Assembly on 29 January, the law was not dealt with for the alleged obstruction, with explanations and motives which had nothing to do with this law. There has been unacceptable integration and conditionality, which, in my firm belief, undermines democratic standards and damages the international reputation and credibility of our country. This is certainly not the last vote on internationally important matters in the National Assembly, where a two-thirds majority will be required. I therefore feel obliged to express my protest and warning that I will not take part in the vote on this item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-06.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-06.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! Mr. President of the National Assembly, the President of the Government! I am glad that, like in 13 years, I will not have to change my mind this time because of such or other pressures. I have always followed my decisions, even though they were not all willing to stand. That was the only thing I thought was right. Last time, I confirmed the final bill, and I'd be happy to. This final account showed a surplus because it was desirable to show the deficit at the expense of the return to the public telecommunications network. It took 10 years to get this story off the agenda. After 10 years, despite the delay of state defenders, at least some of them were expedient and did their job well, at least for the bird part I can say, and some of them have not done so today, the government provided a share in the Court in the previous term as soon as Telekom was sold. Another time. I am pleased that the previous government has finally amended the Law on Community Financing after some shameful terms. For the first time, the municipalities had more investment resources in the previous mandate and could start their development. That is why I will also support this final bill this time.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-06.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Bogovich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-06.ana.u38	Honourable President of Parliament, Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, Honourable Fellows, Fellow Members! I will once again vote in favour of the final accounts for 2007 as I have in the previous session. Today we have heard that this year has been a good year, and on the other hand we have to vote on the matter and on the snow before last. In 2007, it had not only pre-Last snow, but it was also a very successful fiscal year, in which, according to the different interpretations of the Court of Auditors and the Ministry of Finance, we deal with whether we have 9 million minus or 36 million plus in the Treasury. For the last time, I have also pointed out that I would like to give these services the opportunity as soon as possible to take very seriously and responsibly and to regulate their finances in 2009, when we will speak on the basis of the forecasts of the rebalancing of 1100 million or 1200 million negative situation in the state budget. And for me and for all Slovenians and Slovenes, I believe that the key to how we will manage these difficult situations and, in some way, we will be happy to remember them in 2007. Once again, I regret that we are missing this opportunity to say in this budget that the financial situation of this country is healthy despite the difficult situation and that we have sound public finances. Today, there was also talk of correctional exams and accountability. And here I fully agree with those who have already linked the following votes at this point. And, dear fellows, take responsibility there, for there will be no more retrials.
ParlaMint-SI_2009-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-06.ana.u39	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopts the final budget account of the Republic of Slovenia for 2007. We're voting. There are 78 present, 59 votes against 9. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I note that the final account of the Republic of Slovenia for the year 25007 has been accepted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 6th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly. I'm informing you that in half an hour, this is 3:50 p.m., we'll resume the second session of the assembly. Thank you very much.
