ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e3676	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I'll open the 59. Meeting of the National Council. The official protocols of 57 and 58. Meeting of 14. In January 2015, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. Our unfortunately ill Madam President Doris Bures is reported to be prevented, and also the Members of Parliament, Keck, Kirchgatterer, Kucher, Lipitsch, Höfinger, Dipl.-Kffr. (FH) Pfurtscheller, Dr. Bösch, Doppler, Mag. Hauser, ing. Höbart, Dr. Karlsböck, Themessl, Hagen and Dr. Vetter. I would like to ask the President of the European Parliament, as well as other Members who have been ill, from this point of view, of rapid recovery. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e3716	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following statement: Dr. Reinhold Mitterlehner is represented by the State Secretary at the Federal Ministry of Science, Research and Economics Dr. Harald Mahrer as well as the Federal Minister for Europe, Integration and External Sebastian Kurz by the Federal Minister for Families and Youth Dr. Sophie Karmasin. I announce that this meeting will be held from ORF 2 to 1 p.m. and from ORF III in full length. [[09:07:58]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e3766	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: “From Spendierfederalism to Responsibility Federalism” First of all, Mr Magistrate has spoken. Loacker. I give the floor to you and draw attention to the fact that the speaking time must not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e3793	Mr President. Minister of State Schelling! High house! Appreciated spectators on the gallery and in front of the TV screens! From donor federalism to responsibility federalism: 2015... – It is noted that the school class has not seen itself for a week, it is still a bit of unrest in the hall. [[Unrest in the meeting room.]] – 2015 will be a busy year for the Federal Government, especially for the Minister of Finance: on the one hand, because the tax reform is pending, and on the other hand because the financial compensatory negotiations are pending. The fact that these two reforms are considered and treated separately is not illustrative, because in reality they are interfering with each other in terms of content, like gears, and cannot be assessed separately. [[Abg. Wheeler: Superinstructor!]] If you want to achieve a discharge of taxpayers, you have to make sure that you deal carefully with the taxpayers' money, and I am very worried if you can achieve this goal with the planned reforms. The financial compensation, which regulates the relationship between the federal, state and local authorities at the financial level, would be the tax instrument to control specifically what specific tasks will be done at any level and to what extent the decision-makers will be held responsible. A simple example from a neighbouring country explains: If a indoor pool is built in Switzerland, citizens will be supplied with the facts: the dimensions, the costs and what it means for the municipal tax when this indoor pool is built, and in the future it will be decided on. And it is quite clear that the person responsible for expenditure also has to take care of the revenue and finally is politically right. In Austria, such a construction of an indoor pool would result in a cost excess of 50 to 100 percent, a delay of time would occur, and anything that remained would be a huge monument to the mismanagement that is seeking its like. But the mayor would be lucky because he had given the people a indoor pool, and for the debts he had fabricated with it, he would not have to stand straight. We can also observe this now, 2015 where we have municipal elections – in Carinthia, Lower Austria, Vorarlberg, Upper Austria and Styria – where local halls are now being renovated, schools renewed, fire cars purchased. I would like to examine the order book of Rosenbauer with regard to a connection with the municipal elections. And if... – Yes, Mr. Mayor Rädler, I already know that you are making policies about how you are elected, but it would also be good to make policy in the interests of taxpayers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] [[Abg. Wheeler:! Mr. Oberlehrer!]] For example, the cities of Linz and Vienna, with their francs, show us that there is no possibility of attracting those responsible for mismanagement. This remains without any consequence for those responsible. There is still no insolvency right for local authorities, even though the federal states of Carinthia and Salzburg, as well as the city of Linz, show us symbols of the economy, which every entrepreneur had long since forced into bankruptcy. And at the same time – you must not forget that – there are communities that carefully manage where the mayors look at the municipal funds, only with the consequence that the citizens of the sparing communities have nothing of it, because the wasteful ones have so burdened the total budget. The local skiers, Mr Rädler, and the princes of the country, are not subjectively feeling that they are spending the money on taxpayers because the process is quite different. The federal government expresses the citizens like lemons, and the state princes push out the federal government and are pleased that they have driven off a regular batch of money to the Minister of Finance, but do not think that these batches must pay money from their taxpayers, from their voters at home. Instead, they kindly vote with election gifts. [[Abg. Wooger: Such a fool!]] As we have pointed out several times, there are, of course, clear solutions on the part of NEOS, which we have not invented, but which the experts recommend time and again, namely the link between tasks, revenue and expenditure. Therefore, increased tax autonomy for countries and communities is essential if we are to counteract political opportunism and if we want to ensure responsible handling of tax money. The best protection of taxpayers against scrapping is still regional tax autonomy, because then it can be compared, as the neighboring community and the neighboring federal state solves. Then, for example, a head of state would have to justify why income tax in Upper Austria is a percentage point lower than in neighboring Germany or is cheaper in Mittersill than in Kufstein or vice versa. This comparability of regional authorities, Mr. Federal Minister, can also improve you personally by finally coming up with the already promised uniform accounting rules for all federal states; for what the Republic requires of almost every entrepreneur must be a matter of course for a local authority. The financial compensatory negotiations are in the opening holes, Mr Minister, and I would like to hear from you how you position yourself. The majority of the country's leaders are clearly in favour of a country's tax autonomy. Erwin Pröll has just recently announced in the “standard” that he wishes to have a discussion on the autonomy of the tax, because this is the long-lasting discussion about the fact that the countries only spend money, and here he wants to see an essential first step in this direction. He is not alone in this, the national leaders Platter, Haslauer, Wallner and Häupl also argue in this direction. However, I am skeptical of whether this will succeed. We are used by SPÖ and ÖVP to the fact that more lukewarm compromises are the result of the negotiations, and I would remind you therefore that handling tax money is as important, even more important in our view, than the compromises within the government groups. The budgets need to be disclosed – uniformly, standardised and fully – and no more money must be sent between the federal, state and local authorities, just because we are negotiating the financial compensatory negotiations, and I have to say that because in the financial compensatory negotiations you do not manage to lighten the financial jungle. That is why our call to you, Minister of State: Do not protect the users in the municipalities and especially in the countries, protect the taxpayers and taxpayers! Get active and give the countries and communities the power to collect taxes themselves – more taxes and less taxes – and thereby give citizens the power to use their responsibilities when mismanagement is carried out and to reward them if they do well! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e3877	Mr Finanzminister Dr. Schelling has now given a preliminary opinion on the matter. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e3898	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to thank you for the fact that this issue is in the current hour, because it is a subject that has long moved us. It is not a new topic, there are also many questions that have already been asked many times and have already been answered many times by me – even if you have not heard it everywhere – and I would like to refer some introductory positions to it. First of all, I would ask that there be no flat-rate convictions. There are local authorities – all of them know, including Matthias Strolz, who comes from a small community – who act very economically and efficiently. That is why there should be no flat-rate convictions that all communities, as you meant, are wasteful. The communities have great responsibilities in their proximity to the citizens, in their performance for the citizens. I would therefore like to move to the second principle: I believe that the subject of federalism is too short in the form you presented it. We must, as I believe, discuss the basic principle of subsidiarity, i.e. the level of the bodies at which they are to be performed and how they can be implemented efficiently and responsibly. The question “central or decentralised” here, I believe, is too brief. I believe that we should have a wide-ranging discussion on the question of what is happening at the municipal, district, state and federal level, always taking into account what is still happening from the higher supranational level, the European Union. I therefore believe that it is right to hold this discussion now in this public, because there are various solutions and comments that are important. First point: They criticise the fact that tax reform and financial compensation are not made at the same time. You know – it has been decided here – that the valid financial compensation has been extended until the end of 2016. If we now adopt a tax reform in March of this year, this will have an impact on the current financial compensation. It is therefore important to ensure that countries' budgetary planning for 2016 is aware of the impact of the tax reform. The fact that this is, of course, another long-term project on the issue of financial compensation is not at all a matter. Second point: The financial compensation is only part of this discussion. This is not a principle discussion on the question of federalism or non-federalism, because the financial compensation is only a control instrument in this system. And that is why I believe that we have done well to clarify this question over many years. The Austrian Convention has also done excellent work here. What it is about now is to reach agreement on how we will deal with responsibility in the future. I have already said a number of things here in the context of the discussions on financial compensation. One of these is that, I believe, taking the principle of subsidiarity seriously, the first step is to carry out a task critique: Who currently has what tasks, and how are they performed? We may then realize that not everything is the way we want it to be. After this task criticism, we should jointly decide to make a task-oriented financial compensation with the aim of getting responsibility and responsibility into one's hands. I also do not think in the current discussion regarding the various areas of the resorts that one ordered and the other paid. That is why I am quite open to this discussion. [[Congratulations with representatives of ÖVP, FPÖ, Team Stronach and NEOS.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] I have therefore announced that, as part of the financial compensation in a working group, we will, of course, also look at the question of autonomous taxes. We want to show there – the start is the invitation of the Swiss Minister for Finance – once what problems and opportunities such opportunities may have. I would like to say to you, Mr Loacker, but from my knowledge: The agreement on this question is not very large within the countries. It's just as you said: There are those who support this, and there are also those who reject it completely. I would ask you to note that a discussion at the end of the day is such that we are able to prepare a question of such crucial importance for a majority, and in this case – I may say – the decision will have to be unanimous. I will therefore convene this working group as part of the financial compensation to take this path. The third crucial point – and you have rightly referred to this – is the question of the financial flows that continue to run. The financial flows from the countries to the municipalities – I have always explained this and stick to it – must become more transparent. That's not a question at all! As a result, I have said here that we will achieve the harmonisation of budgetary law. [[Parliament adopted a resolution on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the labelling, ……]] Harmonisation of budgetary law is almost negotiable, but you all here in the House know that, interestingly, it is not the only decision of the Minister of Finance to adopt this regulation, but I need the approval of the President of the Court of Auditors. We are currently working on this most intensively, and I myself have had several talks with the Court of Auditors staff, but also with the President of the Court of Auditors, so that we can find a solution. I would ask you to take along a point relating to this: It is not a question of harmonising budgetary law at country level – that is a crucial point! – but we also need the same harmonisation at the municipal level, so that the transfer flows made in the context of the financial compensation are visible and transparent. The aim is that by means of this harmonisation and the comparable data available, we can set benchmarks, identify best practice examples and also clearly show in which individual structures there are better models or bad models. Then we should bring this financial compensation in this direction. I therefore believe that it is important that this is completed in addition to the harmonisation of budgetary law in the first quarter, by March, and I assume that it is also successful. We therefore need to intensify the discussions, especially as regards the level of local authorities. I think we already need to understand that certain micro-communities cannot necessarily do so in accordance with the same broad principle of federal budgetary law – but comparablely, in the same direction. I recall the discussion in the Committee on Budgets: When the President of the Court of Auditors presented the 2013 accounts for the first time in accordance with the new rules, one said: Yeah, isn't it crazy that we get 19 000 pages of documents?!, and the others said: That's all too little for us! That is why we should find a balance. We are in a good way that we can do this at the same time, even if it may enter into force on a time-consuming basis. It will also be of great importance to answer the question of how the process continues, because this process is a partial process of that. I think I have seen a knowledge of the responsible negotiators at the level of the countries and municipalities. Even though we have been discussing the question of competence for 20 years and do not reach an agreement – although there are many solutions – it is quite possible that we will be able to reach an order of competence on the detour of money. This must also be an objective of financial compensation. Once again to the process Financial compensation: We start in April with a kick-off event with the countries and communities. We will invite the Swiss Minister of Finance to a lecture on the opportunities and risks of municipal taxes in May. But I would also like to say that she gave me two messages: Firstly, in Switzerland, all of this is linked to direct democracy, and we must also change the culture in this area. I have always brought the following example: If it is agreed in Switzerland that the holiday weeks should be extended, then the Swiss will vote with No; with us one more week would be put on it, and that next to what is required. [[Abg. Kickl: Let's try it!]] That is, we need a culture in which everyone understands that what we decide costs something. If we do, it's good. [[Congratulations with representatives of ÖVP, Team Stronach and NEOS as well as the Abg. Moser.]] [[Abg. Kickl: The ÖVP doesn't have to!]] Secondly, I have always said and stick to it: The source of all the money is the citizens. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Kickl.]] We in politics have the responsibility to deal with the money carefully. This is not only true of the Confederation, it is also true for the countries and the communities. Another point is quite crucial. – The Swiss Minister of Finance has told me what should not happen, namely: that there is a devastating tax competition at the country level, which then causes the countries, when the money goes out to them, to join forces and say: Please give me something! We do not want to go this way, so it needs clear rules of play. I assume that, as part of the negotiations we will begin in April, we will come to a conclusion that we will decide the right thing and not just follow up on the populist. [[Abg. Moser: That's how it is!]] Our task as a politician is to make the right thing popular and not to explain the populist to the right.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e4002	We are going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other participants in this current hour must not exceed 5 minutes. Mr Matznetter has now spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e4029	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Ladies and gentlemen, who are already following the plenary session early in the morning! Mr Mag. Loacker, in medicine, it is such that a principle should not be forgotten, namely: Anamnese, diagnosis, then therapy, possibly rehabilitation, then the patient is healthy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Moser.]] Exchange If this order, the maximum curfew, probably charlatanery and in the end it is harmful. You should also pay attention to this when setting up new parties – that is: first of all, have an idea, second have a program, then set up the people and then register. The reverse order of how NEOS do – without entering content, then starting with actionism to become popular – is too little. [[Abg. Stroll: That's a fool!]] [[Onion of the Abg. Brosz]] This order is not being observed. [[Abg. Stroll: This is a complete pot!]] That is why we need to work together to ensure that something develops. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The Federal Minister has pointed out that the issue is quite fine, because we have to deal with the fact that efficiency in a relatively complicated structure is also true in our country – no question! We have five levels of administration: the European Union, a federal level, a country level, a district level and a municipal level. The question is whether we really need five levels. This is a question that can be asked again and again and again and that has already been asked, with varying success. I remember several advances: In Styria there was a state politician who suddenly wanted to make three federal states 20 years ago. – He has been “forbidden” in the same public sense. There was also the proposal – I think it was German chancellor Gusenbauer, who once said that – to leave the district level. – He was also attacked for this, although that would be exactly the level that is not democratically legitimised and where we have practical experience. [[Abg. Kickl: Look at how to deal with those who question Europe!]] The Austrian Statutory Cities manage much better than the indirect federal administration or the federal administration. I'm Vienna, I've experienced the difference myself. Let yourself be shown a passport in Vienna today! – A thousand to one, and not because with the police who did this earlier, all would have been incapable! I believe that, if the Austrian communities have sufficient size, they have a very good, almost perfect form in relation to citizens/public hands and that we can assume that – we see this in particular with the urban structures – they are given more responsibility. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] Now I come to the question of payment: Of course, the argument always comes, which should be taken up by themselves. Unfortunately, this is often represented by the same politicians who criticise here how much the increases in fees are, in the case of water, in the case of waste or otherwise where. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stroll.]] They criticize exactly where autonomy exists, and at the same time say: Now they are to collect income tax and possibly corporate taxes themselves! [[Abg. Kickl: Häupl could be the rich tax!]] Dear friends! Europe has a problem: empty cash registers in ten out of twenty-eight states. Why? – Because the international corporations no longer pay a cent on the continent. [[Mr Podgorschek, Mr Loacker and Mr Strolz.]] Why is that so? Why are there LuxLeaks? – Because in Luxembourg, the largest online dealer would never have been established if he had not been artificially taken up by agreements. [[Abg. Kickl: Who confirmed this man in office?]] Is that efficient? - No! Is that the optimal standard? - No! It is only a benefit of tax havens. [[Abg. Stroll: You decided!]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Kickl.]] Now there are people who do not think, who do not have a programme, who are elected because they are new, who want to be here and set up in Austria. [[Abg. Stroll: You wanted this!]] Federal Minister Schelling rightly points out that a ruinous tax competition at the end of the day hurts everyone. Look at the continent! – No Greece, no Spain, no Ireland without it! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the NEOS, if you want to market economy, you need a uniform field of play, so not everyone can trick and say: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neubauer]] With me you get the tax back in 48 hours!, but: the same right, the same conditions, the same location. Then he who has the best trained people and the best location wins, and then the market economy works. It's written to you in the main book. Pick up the programmatics, maybe it's better next time! I wish you good luck, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e4205	The next item is the speech by Mr Prince-in-Office. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e4226	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Decisions should fall where people are affected, or – as our Finance Minister Hans-Jörg Schelling once expressed it in Parliament –: We must manage to bring together the responsibilities and responsibilities. What NEOS want to sell us today as the current hour is an attempt to bring their ideas closer to a larger group of people. That's their right, but it's not new. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] Think of the country election campaign in Vorarlberg, where Matthias Strolz and the sage from today's current hour have already moved through the country! With what result? – Target clearly misses! But let's come back to the subject that's quite exciting. Of course, it is necessary to discuss openly about skill adjustments, but with an eye-to-eye and certainly not with the bristle rod, such as according to the NEOS motto: If you don't do what we want, we'll just get you out of here! – This cannot be the final conclusion of wisdom. [[Abg. Stroll: Oh, yes, get rid of it!]] For a task-oriented financial compensation, as we imagine it, a task reform is needed first. In a first step, we really need to define all the duties and areas of duty of the individual municipalities – what can the communities do? – and, of course, the next step is to define the tasks and competences of the individual local authorities accordingly. Only then can you continue to discuss percentages or the like. Of course, a basic condition is – I am personally concerned – that every citizen is equal in financial compensation, no matter where he lives. The graded population key must finally fall. I think it is also a question of not hindering rural areas by the unfair distribution of financial resources in future development. I myself come from a small community, a miller's community, and I am mayor there. It is therefore also important for me to support rural areas accordingly. We must say goodbye to the philosophy that the rural area is the balancing area for agglomerations. We need to talk about citizens of the same rank and value. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is a pleasure to discuss the need for cities to carry out extra-local tasks. - Yes, it is. However, it should also be said that they benefit disproportionately and also have higher tax revenues due to their location advantages. But let us come back to the responsibility federalism created by NEOS literally: I think it is also time to think about a fair distribution of the local tax. Where do people live? Where do they work? For the future, a fair distribution of the local tax between the place of work and the place of residence would have to be discussed. – It is quite welcome because it is really a very important point: Justice for citizens! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is also natural to think about demographic development in the context of the financial balance. Think of regions that are struggling with emigration, we are thinking of future development in the health and care sector! Let us also think about the establishment of doctors in the country! In these areas, it is important to continue to consider, including in the area of cross-Community cooperation and the development of business territory. I think these are valuable approaches. As a Upper Austrian, I am in a happy position to give you some positive examples of cooperation that have already been successfully implemented in my federal state. We are well aware of the responsibility we have in dealing with public funds and are trying to live up to this responsibility. In Upper Austria, for example, community cooperation in the area of district waste associations works very well. Consider also the collaboration in the area of water and canal or in cross-communist buildings! As a demonstration project in Austria, the Upper Austrian solution is considered when maintaining the rural road network. The ways in which goods are transported are the ways of life of the rural area. In Upper Austria, this is happening across the community in the associations with the support of the country. As you can see, we are already very far from exploiting synergies, and I think that is also good. Upper Austria has proved as one of the federal states that not only is there reform zeal but something is also implemented. Let us think of the hospital reform or other implementations in the area of administrative simplification! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] While NEOS are still dealing with headings, Upper Austria and other federal states are taking concrete steps in responsible handling of tax money. At this level it is necessary to continue work.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e4288	The next speaker was Mr Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e4309	Mr President. Federal Minister! After the last speech, one might almost suspect that in Upper Austria there may soon be country elections. [[It was in favour of the FPÖ as well as of representatives of Greens and NEOS.]] My predecessors of SPÖ and ÖVP and also the Minister of State have announced words from the speaker's desk, in which I thought: Bumm, they know each other well, they know how it is! – They’re real announcement giants, but they’ve been implementing for decades. Mr Federal Minister, you are of great stature, even what you have said here today is important, you have only one problem: They are embedded in a coalition of SPÖ and ÖVP, in a country where exactly those who are now, namely the federal states and those responsible there, have no interest in changing anything. Of course, we have the federal structure in our constitution, and from a liberal point of view this is good, because it has already been said that responsibility, competence, decision also belongs to where one is closer to man. This is the church, that is the country, and ultimately it is the covenant; you have to do it here. Mr. Federal Minister, you quoted the Constitutional Convention. – We are not here in a historic deal, the Constitutional Convention is now ten years ago. Where is any implementation of what Mr Matznetter or you, too, called today? Where is the implementation? [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Loacker.]] Today we've heard, that's a good way, but maybe there's a delay in time. So apologies, delay of time, these may be a few fractions of minutes, hours or days, but what you're doing here is actually refusal. And one thing is not in the federal constitution: blocking, hindering, emphasizing, power, retaining power, building power and abuse of power at the promises of party secretariats. Address to the speakers of SPÖ and ÖVP: Mr Matznetter – I don't see him right now, I don't know from whom he has to get a rupture or a direction – the power of your party in questions of federalism, what you're talking about here, is in reality only a stone's throw far to the Vienna Town Hall, where you drive 180 against the concrete wall. And for you, colleagues from the ÖVP, she already ends in St. Pölten, where you also drive 180 against the concrete wall. All that is to be done here for a constructive federalism is actually not happening. [[It was in favour of the FPÖ and of Mr Loacker and Mr Vavrik.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Prince.]] Mr. Prince, your professionalism has shown itself only in that you have led a hundred times the beautiful state of Upper Austria in your speech. Obviously, a Ghostwriter said: It's got to go in once! [[Call to the ÖVP: This is the envy!]] Good work is done in every federal state, and good work is done in many communities. And in the view of NEOS that it is wasted in such a way: It can no longer be wasted in the Austrian communities and also in many Lower Austrian communities – even in Lower Austria – because there is no more money for it. It just doesn't work anymore. The construction projects are no longer opened, but only the Styrofoam models in any municipal facilities, for something else it is no longer enough, the main thing that local media report about it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Prince.]] But there are also a variety of examples to which you have to say: Those who want centralism are clearly also on the wrong path. I would like to quote an example from the recent past. The Federal Minister for Education Heinisch-Hosek said: One has to look at the schools now, that instead of the small schools, one creates a structure that goes to the point that 300 children go to each school. What happened? – Of course, the Germans are right to shout, because if you have such a centralism in which you want to do something in an ivory tower in the ministry on the drawing board, and this without knowing the true structure, then there has rightly been a corresponding cry among the federal states that you would have to close a lot of schools. Then the title is again: Minister Heinisch-Hosek is rowing back. Ladies and gentlemen, what you are doing on questions of federalism reform is nothing but a standstill, and if not, then only is the matter rolled back, but also this is nothing but what the black-red or red-black – you can exchange the colors as you want – coalition practice everywhere. In every reform effort there is a standstill, and the Austrians, whether central or federal, have really not deserved it.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e4373	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e4396	Mr President. Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The example that my previous speaker has just given to the federalism debate, which Heinisch-Hosek has recently brought, is an example that I do not share in content, but it is a good example of how federalism debates have been taking place in Austria for decades. A minister, a minister makes a proposal, sending some heads of state and saying: No, no, no, [[Abg. Wöginger: Logically!]] [[Call: Why not?]] However, the reverse also applies: Once a proposal comes from the countries, it is often rejected by the federal government. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] In any case, a constructive debate does not take place, and this also shows this example of schools. What did Landes Captain Platter say? – He said: It's not serious to take. [[Abg. Wögerer: Don't!]] The choice of words alone shows and says everything. Platter said: Well, not so!, and brought a counter proposal of which he knew exactly that he was not acceptable to the League. With this attitude and this form of debate on federalism, which we have been experiencing for decades, we will not move forward in Austria. And we know very well that there are significant system failures and financial deficits within the framework of financial compensation and federalism – that is nothing new. This begins with the lack of fiscal sovereignty of countries and communities, and I am not in favour of one, I would also like to say at this point that there is a ruinous competition, but, Mr Matznetter, I am in any case responsible for a dosed competition and for greater responsibility on this issue. [[Congratulations on the Greens and Members of the NEOS.]] There is no definition of strategic goals. We're dealing with a transfer chaos. There is a lack of economical handling of means of taxation. There is a lack of task-oriented financial compensation and much more. It is simply ignored in the debate that financial compensation and federalism are inseparably linked to each other, and what we are experiencing in Austria is that the objective of the distribution of funds is dominated by financial compensatory debates alone: The knead has to vote. It dominates possessive thinking, it dominates outdated thought patterns, it dominates power games of state princes based on outdated federalism models from the 1920s that simply do not fit into the present age, and these power games are carried out on the backs of citizens. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The result is that we have complex, inefficient, that is, expensive structures that we have to deal with waste of public funds on federal issues, and that must be ended. That is, we need a new federalism model, and I do not believe in total reforms in the state anymore. As a learned Austrian, I know – and have persecuted this for many years – that this will not work. I think we should say goodbye. But what futures and futures must have, these are flexible, differentiated, partnership solutions in which there must be one another, not one another, as we have experienced in recent decades. Individual projects must be defined, in various areas of function, in school, in education, in the field of health, in the field of public transport, in the field of childcare and in many other areas, and, of course, certain structures and basic principles must be taken into account. Of course, we need a uniform budgetary law in order to finally compare each other. We have to deal sparingly with public resources, that is, the principle of efficiency must be one of the key and essential elements. Strategic objectives must be defined and citizens must also be more involved in this process. The key question that arises is: How do we get from this expensive, wasteful federalism – I call it execution federalism – to a new reform process? One of the key elements, and I am right to you, Minister Schelling, must be that we come to an improved basis for discussion in this country, that we define common strategic goals, that we no longer argue out of the hollow belly, but on the basis of data and data bases, that we learn from each other that we learn from the best, that we are more involved in citizens and that we are living partnership. The municipalities must also take into account as an equivalent partner in the financial compensation process, which has not been the case so far, and at the beginning, key projects need to be set up and defined, which should start at the latest in 2017. What cannot be said is that this 2008 financial compensation will be extended once again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e4474	The next item is the speech by Mrs Dr. Nachbaur. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e4496	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Finance! High house! [[Abg. Kickl: Dear taxpayers!]] Dear taxpayers! We have heard a great deal from Mr Schelling, Minister of Finance, but still much remains to be said. The “NZZ” writes, the Austrian “Wohlfahrts State eats the future of its children”. We know we have this global tax and tax burden of over 45 percent. Switzerland also has a 35 percent tax burden, and there poverty is not known to be headlines. In Germany, there is a tax and tax rate of 40 percent, and there is even a billion high surplus. If there were the same tax and tax burden in Austria as in Germany, every year some €1 700 more remained in the wallet, but the state of Austria would have to pay €23 billion less, and this would hurt if the state itself had to save, with itself and not with its citizens. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and representatives of the NEOS.]] The Germans also had a juicy real wage increase last year. Even though Federal Chancellor Faymann repeatedly emphasizes that he is proud that we are very close to Germany and in some areas even better than the Germans – one can only dream of it in Austria, because in Austria real wages have been falling continuously for six years. This is, of course, the faulty state, as my colleague Vetter always says, is represented by social democracy and moderate social democracy, because we have the highest inflation rate in the euro area, namely by high costs, high charges, high taxes and high taxes made by the state, so that people often do not have enough to live. In addition, the eaty state is also to blame because it takes almost €3 billion of money away from the people through the cold progression. This is a non-democraticly legitimate annual tax increase. Of course, this should be immediately abolished. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The State is mercilessly using tax-paying citizens to exercise its role as power-conscious redistributors, therefore power-consciously because redistribution means power. It uses citizens' money to finance all possible inefficient state structures. This includes, in particular, the Austrian expression of federalism. We have in our country the most expensive form of the state structure: a revenue centralism in the water head Vienna and an expenditure federalism in the countries. However, the responsibility for money collection and spending is, of course, a matter of course, because citizens need a direct link: What is her hard-worked tax money spent on? – If it is spent for something meaningful, then of course the tax morale also increases. Mr Schelling, you have already mentioned it, Switzerland is a good example and the administrative costs are one third lower there than in Austria. But you doubt that the Austrians are mature for more personal responsibility, and I disagree with you. Let's trust the Austrians more! [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Hable.]] The issue of transparency is also important. There are countless national liabilities and outsourced debts, and I wish you much success in your plan of consolidation. For example, the fact that several federal states participate in currency speculations with the Franken credit is a huge scandal. Of course, no risky speculation transactions can be carried out with taxpayers! Imagine that the city of Vienna has had 300 million euros more in debt with a hit for a few days. And the Vienneses would certainly not have agreed to this, they would have been asked. The same applies to the hypo-alpe-Adria disaster and the associated horrendous country liabilities, which exist not only in Carinthia through this four-party decision, but also in many other federal states. Here I come again to the city of Vienna: In 2001, the city's liabilities for the then Central Savings Bank amounted to €122 billion. Despite the sale of Bank Austria to HVB in 2006, the city of Vienna still has around €6 billion. The Wiener would certainly not have agreed to this either. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and representatives of the NEOS.]] What we need is an insolvency right for local authorities and transparency for all liabilities and debts. It is not possible that areas will be outsourced and then disappear from the books. Of course, we need tax sovereignty for certain revenue among countries, tax competition is always good. There is a clear winner, namely the citizen. And in the end: Let's trust the citizens more! These would certainly not spend as much money on various absurdities as on politicians who want to be re-elected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e4557	The next item is Mr Dr. Strolz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e4579	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated citizens on the gallery, at home and on the screens! The current hour deals with the topic “From Spendierfederalism to Responsibility federalism”. Yes, Mr Principality, we do not come up with a new subject, but we will always come up with this issue, we will claim a new culture of responsibility in this country. And she'll need it. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Austria needs a mentality reform, otherwise it will not play that we can pass on to our children the wealth we have today. If we do not have any more responsibility, more accountability, Mr Prince, then prosperity will go down step by step. We're already on our way there. Today's 30-year-olds already earn more than 10 percent less than those in the early years. They have more than 10 percent less available for their lives. This is reflected in the fact that two young people sometimes earn twice, but cannot even afford a home. This is the direction in which we are on the road, while Mr Pröll and Mr Häupl are speculating at it. With this I switch from Mr. Prince to a king, namely to you, Mr. Matznetter. They're the king of ignorance. I've already explained to you several times how this works at NEOS. You mean we don't have a program. They insult thousands of people. We started with two people. Within three years we have grown to over 13,000 people. We currently have 120 topics in Austria that work on content. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] SPÖ recently presented its programme in 1998. You could be – Blecha works on the new program, wonderful. [[Abg. Kickl: The Blecha works anyway!]] That is where I wish Mr Blecha and Mr Cap every good thing to do in this private body! We currently have over a thousand people working again. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] We have invested more than 250 000 voluntary hours before the National Council election day alone. [[Abg. Matznetter: Little came out!]] – Mr Matznetter, I have put together a starter kit, such as a beginner's bag, from NEOS, so that you can study it once so that you don't always have to spread the same untruths out here. I'll hand it over to you afterwards. From the Prince to the King to the Minister Mr. Schelling, have you noticed that you get more applause from the Greens, from the NEOS and from the Stronach team than from your own party? – You are obviously laughed at by your own party, which is particularly bitter. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter]] [[Abg. Obernoster: Yes ha ha ha!]] [[General hustle and bustle.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Podgorschek and Mr Obernoster.]] You know, I do, your announcements are very good. Your analyses are also very good. You only have the wrong government parties behind you. There was no applause from the SPÖ, and the ÖVP was not quite on the matter, or at least she herself does not believe in what you are planning here. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] The problem is, with these two government parties, you have two bells on your legs with which you will not continue. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] That's the problem. Our support will be provided to you for these plans, because, of course, Mr Matznetter, tax competition is a good thing. Just, you're right. You want to shave everything over a comb, Mr Matznetter, we have tried that before. [[Abg. Matznetter: Hans Peter Haselsteiner! That's a millionaire party!]] Everyone's the same, just a few are a little more alike. We tried that a thousand times on this planet. That's called Communism what you want! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Matznetter.]] But this is not a market economy. Market economy needs clear rules, as I am with you – clear rules! [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the Stronach team.]] And you missed that. That is what the Conservatives and the Social Democrats have rejected, which govern Europe. You missed it. They have triggered this crisis in Europe, not us. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Matznetter and Mr Weninger.]] You know, if the Liberals and Democrats had the majority in Europe, we would have clear rules of play. For speculation in this form would no longer be a place. One of the largest speculators in Austria is Michael Häupl. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] He has “checked” the trams, privatized them and re-readed them. Mr Häupl currently has a debt of €2 billion in Swiss francs. One of the largest speculators in Austria is Mr. Pröll. ==References== Last October, another €300 million was loaned to Franken. At a time when we have already banned private individuals in Austria, Mr Pröll munzer continues to speculate, and also Mr Häupl. [[Abg. New builder: I don’t believe that!]] [[Abg. Stefan: There's no such thing as that!]] That's what you've got to pummel! You've got to get that started! Of course, a responsibilities federalism also needs a competitive situation when it comes to taxes. Mr Schelling, we have put this on the table, for the first time a comprehensive tax reform concept. You can read it. For the first time, we have integrated tax responsibility for federal and local authorities into the income tax rate. We can thus abolish the payroll charges, local tax according to Swiss model. No one's supposed to say it's not going to happen, it's going across the border. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wenninger.]] I know you already gave it to your section head to calculate it, but I'll give it to you again, the summary for you personally. It's possible if we want to.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e4769	The next item is the speech by Mr Fichtinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e4790	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Estimated taxpayers! In view of the comments made by Dr. Strolz, I would like to make the following point: In the run-up to the current topic, I have allowed myself to search the homepage of NEOS under the terms “Federalism”, “Spendier federalism”, “Responsible federalism”, which is actually meant by the terms of NEOS. Do you know what the result is? - Three times nothing found. [[Abg. Meinl-Reisinger: Maybe you should search in PDF, but we like to give you digital re-help!]] An APA research also leaves a slightly unscrupulous one behind, and the previous statements by Mr Strolz and Mr Loacker are also not particularly illustrious as regards the topic of further development or reform of federalism in Austria, except that the so-called Land Princes and Ortskaisers are attacked and condemned on a flat-rate basis. [[Abg. Stroll: You also get a starter kit! You didn't understand!]] [[Abg. Stroll: even calculated!]] So we are now drawing on what has been published and propagated by NEOS recently, namely its own tax concept. [[Abg. Stroll: Yes!]] This makes you find yourself in certain areas! [[Abg. Stroll: You didn't understand!]] In addition to the abolition of the housing contribution with a volume of € 940 million, the ‘labour relief factor’ will no longer be financed in the form of a total wage levy in the future, but from general means of tax, including the abolition of the local tax of € 2.7 billion. The local tax will pay employers on the basis of the gross wage sum, as you know. If it goes after the NEOS, then after the failure of the municipal tax, the municipalities will obtain the corresponding funds from the workers through surcharges on the income tax. So in the final effect, workers pay the relief of the economy! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] In addition, in the area of income tax, it is planned to introduce a tax competition between countries and municipalities. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stroll.]] This is to be done by the Federal Government setting a rate of income tax and allowing the countries as well as the municipalities to collect supplements. – Correct me if I quote you wrong! – These supplements may be up to 5 per cent for municipalities and 6 per cent for countries. [[Abg. Stroll: Reverse!]] This is therefore a maximum of 11 per cent above the federal rate. The municipal surcharges are intended to compensate for the abolition of the local tax and the country supplements are intended to give countries greater tax autonomy, so that they are less able to cope with the financial compensation. – As far as NEOS' tax perspective on federalism is concerned. In doing so, a number of points have already been taken directly into consideration in this tax concept: Firstly, given the sum of the proposed measures, it cannot be said that the labour factor would be significantly relieved. [[Abg. Stroll: About 2.8 billion! It's about 150,000 jobs!]] Most of it, namely the municipal tax, is simply a shift from employers to workers. In the light of the already existing tax burden on workers in this country and the discussion currently under way, this is a position that is certainly not shared by us! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] Secondly, tax competition in the case of direct taxes such as income tax and wage tax is not quite unproblematic. We have already heard of the ruinous race between the local authorities today. The risk that, if it is possible for richer communities to afford to demand lower taxes, with which the differences between the municipalities can grow even further, is probably not quite obvious in this context. In addition to the direct consequences for the total tax revenue of the municipalities, a certain cannibalisation effect between the municipalities with further negative effects on the municipal finances already stressed would not be the result to be desired by the legislator. In conclusion, from the point of view of the municipalities, a few remarks on federalism: In the context of the new financial compensation to be negotiated, it is not about the espionage of the federal or state, but about fair burden distribution in terms of tasks and tasks. And with regard to the money entrusted to them – that is what Mr Mag. Mag. Loacker is already very tense today – you can be sure that the municipalities use the available funds as immediately as anyone else in the public sector to create the living and working environment together with the citizens in such a way that the latter very much want to remain residents of their home communities and continue to live there. This is the daily responsibility of the mandaters in the communities and thus a form of responsibilities federalism, as we understand it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e4924	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Hammer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e4948	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Today's current hour of NEOS shows once again – as my previous speaker Nikolaus Prinz has already said – the centralist core and thus the more bourgeois access of NEOS, which always manifests itself in these debates. Of course, the issue of state-building, division of competence between the different local authorities and, above all, the reduction of bureaucracy and the regulation and simplification of procedures is very important. In particular, the ÖVP is the party which is strongly anchored at all levels from the communities to the countries to the federal government and works crediblely in this regard. On the other hand, they are very strongly anchored in the federal government, and in other bodies it fails a little, which also shows current survey values in the country elections! However, I must say immediately that there is, of course, a certain need for action and a permanent need for optimization, and that the division of tasks between the federal government and countries must be repeatedly questioned and amended. However, appropriate initiatives and implementations are also planned. However, it is absolutely not acceptable – however, the NEOS, since they exist – to claim that the current system is somehow justified only for its own power of existence, and that it is inefficient and, above all, to represent the countries as waste and spenders, because the work of the national governments of the countries is very much appreciated by the citizens. Such claims are therefore absolutely not permitted. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stroll.]] For us as an ÖVP – I have already said that – permanent improvements and optimizations are an important goal, and there is also a total agreement with the countries that one will work on the distribution of competence and on deregulation. The Minister of Finance is a credible fighter for initiatives to be launched in the coming months. However, I should like to make it clear with the claim that the countries are not responsible for certain policy areas, and that only money is missing, because the countries in particular have very important legal obligations. I am now thinking, for example, of the entire area of health care, of care and care, such as care for people with disabilities, of all the children's and youth assistance, but also of housing and nature and environmental protection, especially the essential area of education, in this case of compulsory schools. In all these areas, a lot is being done by the countries, and I believe that the countries in these areas are acting very responsibly. – In the context of education, of course, the proposal to complete schools in the secondary field among 300 students is absolutely opposed, because then there would be in Upper Austria districts where there was only one school more! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I would now like to come to an area which you have repeatedly abused for political discussions, namely the promotion area: They often act as if promotions were from the ground to something bad. However, the basic idea of promoting certain incentives for people to set up certain activities is, in principle, positive. However, for your argumentation, you call upon any statements of the Court of Auditors, which are based on the basic error, to treat all expenditure, which is not legal expenditure but discretionary expenditure, as subsidies. But this is only a part of the truth, because not all the cost of testing are classical promotions! I would like to make this clear in an example from my own area, the social area of the country of Upper Austria: There are promotions there as you call them. For example, this also promotes the support of care hours in mobile care, and there is an investment support for the construction of old and care homes and disabled facilities. Employment projects will also be promoted and many other measures in social rehabilitation will be put in place. – All of this is not correct, because it is really important to be encouraged by these expenditure on discretion. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] It is, as has been said, irresponsible to dismiss this as “spensor federalism. ” In this area in particular, tax money is handled with care and important initiatives are also being taken. For example, we rely on the so-called Sunset clause. The Minister has already presented this: Promotions will be checked to see if they are really necessary, and then they may be left to run out. Furthermore, a general government support strategy is being developed, and I also call the project of the transparency database, initiated by the ÖVP and also in implementation. [[Abg. Stroll: This is a stillbirth!]] This project is in implementation, I know, because I myself am also involved in this. The ÖVP stands for modern federalism, which is constantly being developed and improved. Here, responsible work is carried out and appropriate measures are put in place in the sense of reorganisation, administrative simplification and deregulation. This path should continue, and your hysteria and general condemnation of the system are not appropriate!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e5018	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Fuchs. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e5040	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Finance! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! If one looks for a red thread in the Court of Auditors' 599 recommendations for an administrative reform, one finds again and again the demand for a merger of the tasks, expenditure and financing responsibility. On the one hand, the pooling of revenue, expenditure and responsibilities could further address the preferences of the citizens of a local authority, and on the other hand, it could also achieve greater responsibility for politicians and more efficient use of public funding. From an allocal point of view, the principle of fiscal equivalence plays a central role in answering the question of the appropriate extent of tax autonomy. This principle is designed to agree on the provision of public services by voters, users and cost providers. Local public services should therefore be financed exclusively from local revenue. This prevents expenditure – as it is currently – from being incurred at the expense of third parties. [[I should like to congratulate the FPÖ and the representatives of the NEOS.]] I believe that in the case of higher tax autonomy of the countries or municipalities, in particular: In a high-tax country like Austria, this should not increase the tax rate. [[I should like to congratulate the FPÖ and the representatives of the NEOS.]] The higher tax autonomy must not lead to a higher administrative burden either by the State or by the entrepreneur. In this sense, the tax administration must remain within the competence of the Ministry of Finance or be taken over by the Ministry. Tax law must not become more complicated by higher tax autonomy. It is therefore intended to apply exclusively covered lifting rates in the area of income tax law. Nor should there be a fragmentation of tax law. Regional benefits are primarily to be financed through regional contributions rather than by re-indebtedness of the regions. Therefore, there is a need for a corresponding debt brake here. [[I should like to congratulate the FPÖ and the representatives of the NEOS.]] Fifth point: If there are problems of distribution between regions due to higher tax autonomy, there must be solidarity between the regions. Last point: The introduction of a modern and uniform budgetary law of the local authorities with an enhanced target and impact orientation – keyword ‘unity accounting’. As a accompanying measure for higher tax autonomy, there should also be a binding right to co-determination among citizens. If a public investment project, such as a new hospital, exceeds a certain cost volume, a referendum will automatically be convened. In fact, direct democracy keeps the state slim, as evidenced by a Swiss study. In this study, the development of the state finances of all 25 Swiss cantons over the past 110 years has been studied, and it has been noted that: The more the inhabitants in a canton can talk about public expenditure, the better it is there to order public finances. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of NEOS and Team Stronach.]] The study shows that the direct participation of voters significantly inhibits public wastefulness. And something else has shown up after this study: The easier it is to make a popular decision, for example against a particularly expensive project, the slower public spending is growing. A better way to more solid state finances is to give citizens more decision-making power over government expenditure. This study confirms the freedom of movement for an extension of direct democracy. An extension of direct democracy is not only to be welcomed for democratic reasons, but also to have a positive impact on the government budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e5128	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Daniela Musiol.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e5152	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Many previous speakers have already mentioned that the debate on federalism is, of course, a question of financial compensation, but on the other hand, a question of the distribution of competence or the distribution of tasks. It's translated: Who is responsible for what? – It is quite permissible, to ask: What makes sense if it is regulated in small, speaking in the municipality or in the community, and what is it useful to regulate in the country, Austria or Europe? But if you look at the division of tasks in Austria, then the principle is whether something makes sense, not the red thread that draws through the division of tasks or distribution of competence, but here it is mainly about preserving power and not giving out certain things, so that on the other hand you can then get rid of the others and say: I'd do that anyway, but the others don't want to! The exciting question is: Why is that so? – One could say, of course, that this is in the nature of man. I claim: No, no, no, It is not in the nature of man, but in the nature of our political system. One reason for this is in particular the way in which we come to our legislative bodies in Austria, such as the people here can move into Parliament. We have a federal list on which the people who are candidates, but we also have national lists, and these national lists are drawn up in all parties at national level, which leads to the fact that in the National Council, but also in the Federal Government, there are persons who did not come to this body or government via the federal list, but through their national lists and thus also over the dependence on the so-called Land Princes. – We feel that very much in each individual discussion when it comes to the distribution of competence. Let me bring a few examples from my core area of social policy – elementary education, kindergartens, Hortwesen. I have already made several requests to point out that it would be important that we do not have nine different national laws, which are then still different in all communities, but that all children in Austria have the right to find the same conditions. – The colleague of the SPÖ nods. Members of the SPÖ, the ÖVP and all parties nod when we discuss this in the Committee. But this request has never been put to the vote, because we are then exactly at this limit of power which I have described before. Then, no single family minister and no individual State Secretary, as I have experienced here in my political career, dares to really challenge this with their federal states until the last. And then there are 15a agreements, according to which certain important parts, such as financing, are clarified, but the quality is only a target and not a mandatory requirement, because certain countries have opposed it. And that certainly does not make sense in the minds of the children! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The same applies to the protection of young people: How can it make sense for a young person who lives, for example, at the border of Styria/Burgenland, for example in Fürstenfeld, to get alcohol in a locality in Burgenland, but who does not get alcohol in a locality in Styria or, if he lives there, if he lives only 500 meters away? – That is not understandable for anyone, it is not clear and makes no sense! The same applies to child and youth assistance, i.e.: What do we do with children who cannot live with their families but who are accommodated? – In this regard, we have not come to qualitative legislation for years because the countries are cross-border. But they do this not only because of evil will, but also because of the question: Do you have common objectives and appropriate competences here? That means: The question of power is crucial on this point. Many previous speakers and you, Mr. Finanzminister, have already mentioned this: Important in this context is also the question which movement citizens could bring in if they are involved, keyword direct democracy. I'm not right about an analysis, Mr. Minister. They have mentioned that we need a different culture here in Austria so that direct democracy is possible. – That may be! But the crucial question is: What must there be first? – The possibility of direct democracy so that we can come to this culture, or culture, so that we can then introduce direct democracy? – I claim that the former is necessary: We need appropriate framework conditions to enable all of us, the institutions and citizens, to make common decisions. If you bring the example of Switzerland, I say: It is known that the Swiss vote to a large extent in the sense of their households. The crucial question here is: Why? – I claim – and this is what many studies claim – because they are used to taking responsibility through direct democracy. And that is what I wish for the Austrians too!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e5216	The next item is the report by Mr Ing. Robert Lugar.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e5240	Mr President. High house! I think we should return to the core of the problem. Much has already been discussed today about what should be done better, and it has been discussed who should carry out what tasks. The Minister for Finance has even said: We have to look at who does any task at all, and then see if that is done well. Mr Finanzminister! We know that for decades, who does what, and we also know it doesn't work. And if you look at the Court of Auditors' reports, you will see that the three main areas, namely administration, health and education, where the countries are firmly interfering, are precisely the main problems in our country. If we now want to talk about what should be done better, then we do not need to talk about who should do what tasks. You have to talk about it – Mrs Musiol has already taken it up – who actually chooses the members of the government. And, unfortunately, I have to turn to the television viewers and ask the question: Faith All of you serious that you elected the government's representatives? Do you know who elected Members? – These are the chiefs of the country, because they make the tricks. And you as voters do not decide who comes to this list, but you have the option to choose those that are on this list. And that's the problem. [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] If we finally want to make a reform, we have to cut the countries off. And now you explain to me how this should work, if on the one hand all the heads of state, except two, three, four, five, are elected, depending on how many were on the federal list, and the delegates are obliged to those whom they have elected – not to the citizen, but to their country leader, their party leader in the country! – and these Members must make a reform here because it is necessary! The Court of Auditors says yes, the Court of Auditors says we need this reform. If it is precisely these Members who have been elected by their heads of state to bring about a reform here, do you believe that this will work, even if this reform goes at the expense of the countries? That is what the Court of Auditors says, of course: The countries are throwing the money out with their full hands! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] The countries don't care how the federal government is doing. The countries are keeping the League. Our federal states are keeping the covenant! That is, all of us, as we are sitting here, especially those of the government, are, in the end, hammermen of the heads of state. [[Abg. Rädler: And you from Frank Stronach!]] But not only the representatives of the government do what their country heads want, no, the ministers do. Take a look back into history! Look at a Mr Pröll! Look You're heading for a Mr. Spindelegger! Look She's got a Maria Fekter! – Everyone depends on their place of business! And now we – and I come to something positive – have a unique opportunity from my point of view. We now have the opportunity to change something. Why? – Not because the MEPs were elected by the citizen. No, we just discussed that. No, because we have a finance minister who's not dependent. This has never been my knowledge in this Republic: a finance minister who is not dependent. [[Abg. Riddler: Such a fool!]] This must have been an accident with the ÖVP. I even think it was an accident. Mr Pröll was just abroad when he was pulled over the table. He was not too satisfied either, I can remember, but he immediately sent the Minister of the Interior Mikl-Leiter to criticize the Minister of Finance. She said she wanted an expert. As if the Minister of Finance we now have was not an expert. [[Mr Rädler and Mr Principal's calls.]] But no matter what. We now have a unique opportunity, with a Minister of Finance, who is not dependent on the EIA, to finally exert pressure on the countries. And how's it going, Minister of Finance? You know that, too. - About the money! About the money! The only way. [[Abg. Rädler: Hopefully Stronach doesn't look at you, or you're going to be like the replicator!]] You don't need to come up with any suggestions on how we can do better. This doesn't interest people, especially the heads of state. The only thing that the heads of state understand is when they are turned to the tap of money, and it is massive! And that's exactly what you're doing. This is about the financial balance. And if you are now extending this until 2016, I hope that you will do so only because you want to collect energy, build up your own courage, then then turn the money to the countries in 2016, and that you will finally force reforms about this turn-on. Force, that's what it's all about! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] We cannot go with good proposals to Mr Pröll or to Mr Häupl and as they are all called. That's a Hydra! There you can turn off a head, the next one grows! It doesn't work. That means you have to work with pressure. It's just pressure. And I wish you all the best, I wish you good luck – you are the last chance we have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e5349	Now, Mrs Mag. Meinl-Risinger's word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e5371	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Thank you very much for the statement by Mrs Musiol and Mr Lugar on the list setting and how internal democracy is designed. I was only surprised that this indication came from the Stronach team. I have to say that. [[Congratulations to representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] But, of course, there is an opportunity for me to advertise that in Vienna, soon, in February, the online pre-elections will start. We are the only party in all of Austria, where all Viennans can take part in the list in Vienna and all Austrians in Austria. So much for the dependence of national speakers on us. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Mr Hammer! When a Member comes out and the speech begins with: “The NEOS have shown again today that they!”, whatever, then usually follows an x-any argument. If you say that you stand for centralism, and the whole thing on the occasion of a discussion where we want a tax sovereignty, tax autonomy for the federal states, then that is already a very risky argument. I would ask you to deal with the subject before you come out and soften up such an unkindness. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] To Mr Feichtinger von der SPÖ: Thank you very much for referring to our tax model here. I couldn't have wanted a better promotion. – Thank you many times for that! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Feichtinger.]] However, I would like to point out one essential point once again, because this was also in the discussion: A volume of €19 billion is spent in Austria on grants. This is twice as much, I think, as in the EU average. That's an unheard-of crowd. [[Abg. Rossmann: Look at the new funding report!]] I know you can always argue every single support, and there is a lot of what is very essential. But you also know that many of these subsidies serve only one purpose, namely to distribute electoral sugar, to make client policy and ultimately to do what we call structural corruption. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] There's an interview with the actor Cornelius Obonya, who says: You'd have to reject the dial sugar. You'd have to go to the street and say, No, thank you! We don't want that! Because you keep taking the money out of your pocket with your bloated bureaucracy devices, so that you can hand it over to us. People would have to go to the street and say: No, we don't! This would also be a way towards a culture of responsibility. I would now like to come to the subject of country tax autonomy. There were some positive as well as negative feedback from national leaders. The mayor Häupl is rather skeptical. He proposed to abolish the tax on assets as a nationally abolished country tax. This may be superior, but not what we imagine under country tax autonomy. In doing so, I must say, the Federal Capital is very exemplary for this responsibility that we condemn. This refers on the one hand to transparency. The franc loans – I am still talking about them; they have also been addressed – are a very compelling example of how opaque Vienna acts here, because it does not have a proper balance, because this is hidden in the camera list. And the second point is the development of debt. If you look at how the official debt of the city of Vienna has increased in recent years, you will notice an increase of 300 percent in the time of the finance councillor Brauner. We reached an official debt of €5 billion. This is only half the truth, however, because Vienna has a total of 133 distributed companies, 39 of which, according to the new Maastricht criteria, are not real enterprises, since they have almost exclusively the city as contractors and do not cover their costs even half of production proceeds. If you then take in the other distributed companies such as Wiener Wohningen, Stadtwerke and so on, we will come to a debt of over €10 billion. In addition, the liability which Mrs Klubobfrau Nachbaur has already mentioned. Loans for francs: 2 billion € is now the volume the city of Vienna has on franc loans. That's 40 percent of official debt! Today a comment can be read in the “Falter”. What are we doing now? Get out now? - Hard. I understand, too. However, it is also very unlikely that in the Franks' balls it is again so devalued that it is in a ratio of 1.5, which would mean approximately a compensation for these losses. But our great criticism is that you just stayed in the casino after 2007, after 2008, at a time when there were warnings from the National Bank, to which you said to private people: Don't pick up any more franc loans! [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] But no, you stayed in this Casi-no! That's not responsible, and that's what we're teasing. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Stefan.]] And one last appeal, I conclude: Mr Finanzminister! You could implement the doppik in all federal states by implementing § 16 Financial Constitutional Act, which regulates the reporting obligation of the countries to the federal government. My urgent appeal would be to do this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e5468	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. [[10:30:24]] Current European hour
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e5490	We are now coming to the current European hour on the subject: ‘TTIP negotiations: End the Federal Government’s dual game – implement national Council decision” First of all, Mr Magistrate has spoken. Kogler. I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time must not exceed 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e5517	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Current European hour – there would have been several occasions. Yesterday, yes, what is to be welcomed in principle, was the responsible EU Commissioner Cecilia Malmström here in Austria, with several dates, including here in Parliament. There we have exchanged, that already has a certain tradition, that is all right, that we do not want to deny away. I am just saying that this is not the occasion, although there is a lot to think about, as the Commissioner said yesterday, but we will still be able to do so. We have announced this and promised the population, on the next occasion, that is now to point out a fact that is very important, not only for the population, but also for you here, each individual, in particular. It has not been so long since we made a decision by the National Council in September. You can read it yourself, you can remember it. This includes, in fact, for the difficult diplomatic issue that has been admitted – Austria was at least with the mandaters for these TTIP negotiations, be it – if one does not, a relatively negative attitude, particularly on particular points of this TTIP regime, which is to be expected. This is a motion for a resolution which, in the past, has no compelling binding effect, but it is not nothing. And we're going to deal with that now because – why is this so up-to-date? – just before Christmas a dispute in the government has broken out, that government that we have actually bound here – read on! . a dispute just about this one of our requests here, which at least three quarters have agreed to, on the initiative of ÖVP and SPÖ. How did this dispute come about in the SPÖ/ÖVP federal government? – The Chancellor of the Federal Republic has actually done something of course, one would like to say that a task – and that is why we are also addressing you this current hour of Europe – at least in Austria, first of all to seek cooperation. Why? . So that we finally appear uniformly and clearly in Brussels, because that is still to be missed. In Austria, the impression is that all the national governments, the heads of state, all the Federal Ministers, except Mr Mitterlehner – but this is the one who is negotiating in Brussels – are against TTIP, in other words, all those who somehow rule in this country. [[Abg. Wheeler: Do you rule too?]] Yeah, yeah, but we're really against it, too. And now we'll see what's going on with the ÖVP. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That's why we're talking about this. But follow me on! That's just an introduction to actuality. That is why we have to take care of ourselves, and that cannot be done, and that will also have consequences, because the orders of the National Council must be fulfilled in such important and compelling questions. Otherwise, we can save ourselves the whole talk of transparency, new democracy and what do I know? 20 Polls we can hold, but that doesn't make any sense if we're not right here – at least correctly! – take action, regardless of who is the opinion. Assuming opinion – you have to, at 10 minutes, always go out, always forward, because the callers at the ÖVP have already warmed up again –: Of course, we are in favour of trade, which is clear, in a part-time society, it is a prerequisite for what is commonly called prosperity to be increased. But the question is, which trade and under what conditions, to whose advantage and to whose disadvantage and what goods. Of course, it would be useful for Europe, especially for Austria, to have such a thing in terms of the approval regulations – I do not even need a free trade agreement, as you call it – for industrial goods, plant components, car components, for it is natural that we do not have a number of approval procedures for bodywork, hands and other car parts. That is perfectly logical and correct. Come on! But that has nothing to do with promoting an agricultural policy that looks like we're going to have hundreds of tons of food a day, now, across the globe. And that should be even more so, that is the objective, that is to say all, the Commissioner yesterday, who was, by the way, a single disappointment. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What's the goal? – In agriculture, it is best to see this: that additional hundreds of tons of food and feed are transported across the globe, and that is because transport costs are not at all right. If they were true, this displeasure would stop. But even worse: Half of South America is ruined in this way. People have nothing to eat there or too little because we eat too much here! It is! And that will be further promoted! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It's true, and you have to break up. You have to see that! That is why it is so important and correct that we have reasonable production regulations, reasonable market economy regulations, reasonable trade relations – I always say “reasonable”, in our division also “fair”, of course, you hear it – that we carry it and not what is happening at TTIP and, by the way, at CETA. That's where we're going. The Federal Chancellor has fully recognized this from our point of view. We are not debating today that Austria was with the mandaters, not only with CETA, but also with TTIP, worse still: Austria has been with those, we have removed the protocols, which expressly – and this is now the next point, the turning and fishing point currently in the global debate – to promote the investment protection provisions, a complete euphemism. Austria was an invading country, which affected this demand, still in 2013! That's where you sort of slept, let's take it that way. Now, from our point of view, you are right to argue that this is not necessary and does not make sense, especially between developed economic areas, North America and Europe, that is what it is all about. And if the reference always comes, yesterday only again – Mitterlehner, Malmström – there are thousands in the world, also in Europe, also in Austria: Yes, this has always had the purpose of protecting investors – whether this is always so good – for reasons of justice – in less developed countries, so that they can invest there, so to speak, for the mutual benefit. You can still see that. But not between two developed economies! And now I'm not going to explain anything new to the Federal Chancellor at all. I am only saying it once again because the EIA obviously wants to re-establish the course agreement. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] They argue just as much, sometimes even more sharp, sometimes even more precise. We can read it in the “Kronen Zeitung. ” That's right, that's it! Now, however, the following problem is facing: The Federal Chancellor goes to the Council of Ministers meeting in December and says: Dear members of the Federal Government, in fact the National Council has decided something that should strengthen our performance in Brussels! And I also understand that, because after that failed in 2013, we have had to keep up with it all the time. Commissioner Malmström is right: What are you so upset about? 28 Member States, all say up, lastly again; a small sidestep, Federal Chancellor, we are not satisfied: In December, too, the Council agreed to speed up negotiations in 2015. You will say: That has nothing to do with the content! Should they negotiate one day, let's see what comes out! – No, at CETA we have seen what comes out, and at CETA, we have also seen where the journey is to go, namely in the wrong direction as regards investment protection. Yes, he's been greatly improved. We can read that there. It has been improved, but it is the completely wrong principle and still bad: no second instance, rather Willing Declarations. Only transparency has been improved. Nevertheless, the basic principle remains wrong. Mr Mitterlehner claims, however, as a replica on you, that our National Council decision has been outdated. I mean, that's the summit. We have had the CETA negotiation results here in the house for six weeks – read it or tell your Mr. Vice-Chancellor and Federal Minister! That's the truth. And you can't say that's outdated. I think this is really problematic, and we will still have to discuss it in the relevant committees. We, as the Green Group, but also others, certainly do not like the fact that the National Council decision is also misinterpreted by a member of the Federal Government. That's it! Just because he's called "Django." That's not going to work out. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And now the bad thing is coming to an end: CETA shows it. Mrs Malmström has yesterday – very up-to-date! – said that can They read in the “standard” today, and CETA is expected to be applied provisionally. First you said for a long time, wait for what comes out, don't wake up, CETA is much more harmless than TTIP, that's the blueprint. Now it turns out, the result is finished. The old Commission has still said, put all of you in the back, that's done negotiating. We then expected the new Commission, Juncker and Malmström. They said, well, that's what we're looking at, maybe we're changing something. The same team is now going to Austria and, Mr. Federal Chancellor, you must convince our people now of TTIP, but also of CETA, especially that there is a so-called provisional application. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Incredible! That's crazy!]] Although it will be a mixed agreement, the National Council should not agree at all, although we have competence here. It's supposed to come into force for two or three years, and if we refuse it, then it's a bad luck. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] But that is what I look at, where the courage of the ÖVP is then! This is a very perfide tactic, so we have brought it in here too, and you have to act against it. This will concern us for the next few weeks and months. This preliminary recognition is only possible if the Member States agree to it in advance. That is why, Federal Chancellor, you are acting on the Minister for Economic Affairs so that he does not agree in the Council that this will be accepted for the time being. Otherwise, Parliament will be bypassed several times, and all have been abandoned for years. No one can need that, not even the advocates who are always stupid!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e5611	A preliminary opinion is now received by the Federal Chancellor. Mr Bundeskanzler, your speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e5632	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Dear Members of the House! Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, the issue of economic cooperation is not only within Europe, but also with Canada and with the United States, which cannot be rejected from the principle, but, on the contrary, trade relations must be promoted in principle – the number of imports and exports is already large at present – and in some areas standards are also agreed. That is something completely right, normal and also desirable. I also see the mandate to make a free trade agreement with both Canada and the United States in order to strengthen cooperation in a world where there is nothing new in the free trade agreement, but something necessary. Now, as always in life, not only the question of what is on it outside but also what is inside. Here we come to the negotiations. Negotiations have taken place for a long time – and the Commission has managed to do so – in such a way that the population in Europe felt that they are not transparent, but they are being hidden. Therefore, the first and right conclusion is that negotiations must be so transparent that the people know in what direction and with what objective the Free Trade Agreement should be concluded. [[Abg. Moser: The print...!]] The second point is: What role does Austria play during these negotiations? After all, we do not want to achieve that we are still strengthening the misunderstandings and social and environmental problems that exist in Europe in areas of speculation and the environment – I would just like to address the key words of nuclear energy and shale gas – by allowing corporate rights to undermine the protection provisions of Europe. This is a serious matter. Not yes or no to free trade is the foreign exchange. It is crucial to examine the outcome of negotiations so strictly that it must comply with social and environmental standards – I am thinking of food safety. The criterion is that the rights and laws we have in Europe are strengthened and not weakened. Now we do not see this in the same way in the Federal Government, but there are also discussions in parties, why not also in a government with two different parties. But my opinion is very clear here: I would like to point out that there are special courts capable of handling social, environmental and other rights in millions of damages. I see it as a threat to such an agreement that Europe does not develop further socially and environmentally friendlyally for organic food, but that corporate rights are also strengthened and corporations can threaten governments, authorities and public authorities with complaints of hundreds of millions. And what effect does it have when big corporations take action against small ones? – It has, for example, an impact in the field of food safety, but also in other areas, which is perfectly logical: It's getting worse, it's not getting more organic, it's not getting more ecological and it's not going to be social. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: That's it! Massive! It's getting more industrial!]] Now, as before the economic crisis, you can say: What happened? – It is not necessary to wait for what has already happened to Vattenfall and other individual examples, namely that corporations exercise their right to exercise pressure on legislators with claims for damages, as they would have invested at a time when they found another legal situation. We do not have to wait for the pressure of the corporations and their complaints, but we can say that we want a free trade agreement that is socially, environmentally friendly and fair, and that we do not sign a free trade agreement that does not meet these criteria. And there the question of special courts is a decisive one. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Brosz: That's what I'm looking at!]] The Austrian Parliament has now, as I believe, quite rightly decided on a motion for a resolution which leaves nothing to be desired in terms of clarity. I share it with a hundred percent and have also publicly asked that all members of the government stick to it. He does not deny free trade agreements, he does not underestimate the importance of trade, he has nothing against the conclusion of rules, but he says that these rules are to be assessed according to what they produce and how they are designed. And that's why I can sign this to a hundred percent. The question of minimum social and environmental standards mentioned in your request is as clearly formulated as the transparency of the negotiations. It is equally clear that this free trade agreement should be ratified by Parliament. Here we are already at a crucial point: Will Austria work at all levels to ensure that both CETA and TTIP will take the decision on this Agreement as a mixed agreement in national parliaments? – I am of this conviction that you have decided to do so, and I personally see it as a task and wish that all those who represent Austria see it as a task. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and representatives of ÖVP, Greens and Team Stronach.]] The decision of four parties states: ‘The sensitivity of the inclusion of ISDS clauses in agreements with States with developed legal systems (e.g. It is not recognizable from the present point of view of the USA and Canada.” From today's point of view, this also applies to me, and that has not changed. I have therefore also made this your motion for a resolution out of deep inner conviction – otherwise I would have put the discussion here today, and I am not always in agreement with the four parties on all points of view – and, out of respect for this decision immediately thereafter, I would have forwarded it to the then and to the current Presidents of the Commission, to the President-in-Offices at that time and to the President-in-Offices of the Council, that is, to those who are politically responsible, of course also to the President of the European Parliament. [[Abg. Schwentner: Not!]] This is important to me because I am personally convinced of it. I also made this clear in the last European Council. The protocols are confidential, but I do not reveal what the others have said. One day these protocols will still be published, and it will be read that I have clearly spoken against the ISDS clauses in CETA and TTIP, because I believe that the legal systems in the United States and in the EU are strong enough. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, why is this discussion so important now? It is now so important because now the course is being set, according to which standards these free trade agreements – first CETA and later TTIP – are brought into the finale. So what is to be done for decision-making? Now it is decided whether ways are being found to make this decision by the national parliaments – and some are now looking for it. There is also now a political debate on whether agricultural products are taken into account as well as environmental and social standards, which are rightly not only for us but also for which we have to defend. In short: Whether and in what form these clauses and thus special charges exist, now decides in the debate. The question arises whether the national parliaments have the last word, and what are the standards? These questions are so important, and I therefore appeal to you that we now play a role in the political debate and not at the end of the day when the last indent is to be placed, or that we make a common outrage about any circumvention. Let us now feel sorry and tell us clearly and clearly what we want! I'll do that. If we do this together, we are stronger.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e5791	We are going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other participants in the current European hour according to § 74b para. 2 in conjunction with § 97a para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 5 minutes. First, Mr. Dr. Cap's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e5821	Mr President. High house! We are, of course, confronted with a mixing strategy. On the one hand, it is entitled to remove obstacles, on the other hand, the question of definition, which is otherwise obstacles, is a hidden one. In reality, however, things such as climate, environmental protection, sustainable energy, healthy food, rural agriculture, social services, public procurement or the large American media groups, whose cultural and film promotion and audiovisual activities in Austria and in Europe, especially in France, are a special concern to break up all of this. That is, the high standards are trade barriers. You'd have to say that. I don't really appreciate Obama. He has just given a very good speech and rightly recognized the need to relieve the middle classes and to burden the super-rich world-wide, especially in America. But there he suddenly comes with the argument, it's about China, it's about the economic domination of the U.S. to counter China. We all want free trade, yes, of course, but not with this perspective and not with a hidden debate. This mixture is also really to be made clear. 98 percent of Austrian entrepreneurs are medium and small enterprises, which is about 370 000. If you file such a complaint in this private institution, you have to count on the 8 million dollars. There is an entire complainant industry, law firms that deserve themselves stupid and stupid, and risk funds that still finance and look where you can complain and get something out. This will put States under pressure. Australia and South Africa were already too many, they have already announced this. There are more and more states that say they don't want it at all, they don't want such a private investor protection clause. If someone doesn't know what that is, it's easy: The aim is to avoid justice through private institutions. There people who sit there will be paid and say that this and that state must now pay billions. This puts the States under pressure. They are intended to eliminate standards because they are at risk of investment because the standards are so high and one cannot make enough profit. – That is the whole background of this debate! To this end, I must mention an interesting interview by Commissioner Malmström in today's "standard" in which she starts to trace, for example, the investor protection agreement by saying that we are making it more transparent, and unfortunately there is no appeal procedure at CETA. – CETA should not be decided either, because this is actually the blueprint for TTIP. So: Malmström says that there is no appeal procedure, and the arbitrators can also think of something, for example in their selection, according to the motto: perhaps even those with a nicer face or those who do not think so, as we all suspect, because they are economically dependent when they sit there, and also act profit-oriented, against the interests of those who live here in Europe and who have fought for these standards that we have here today. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: That's right!]] Then Malmström lays the one track once, but she goes on. The other rail is: When it comes to consumer protection, she says, no, no, we will remain tough, but at the same time she says that there are “very strong consumer protection organisations in Europe, especially in Austria”, there is “great support for the watchful consumers for organic products and food”. What does she say? – She says: What we know, we decide what it is, and the consumer protectionists will sit down for a while! They're strong enough! We have full confidence that they stand on their backs and organize a resistance! – That’s what the Commissioner says and smiles at it. [[Abg. Kickl: What are we doing now?]] This is the charming variant of her predecessor and nothing else. In reality, it has remained on the same line. But the highlight comes to the next question, I quote again from the “standard”: ‘Do TTIP have to be ratified in all EU countries? “ What does the Commissioner answer? – “Only when there is an agreement (...), will our legal experts say whether it is a mixed agreement (...).” – In good German: Know what, let all of you down with the parliaments, with us, the legal experts will decide whether it is a mixed agreement. Somehow one can read out between the lines: Of course, it is not a mixed agreement, because we will not take the path of being in national parliaments... – Na [[Abg. Berlakovich: Funny!]] You should be in favour of it coming into the national Parliament! You're sitting in here, actually, you should say you want to be part of it. You can't be against that. There can be no one against us wanting to deal with this at all. I would like to say that before. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ as well as with representatives of FPÖ, Greens and Team Stronach.]] That's under democracy, I'd say. It is a matter of keeping our culture, our living standards! Generations have fought for it! Before you were sitting there, there was another person sitting in your place who fought for these standards – sometimes with us, sometimes without us, and especially sometimes without you, but so it was! [[Abg. Wheelers: You can vote anyway!]] [[Abg. Rädler: You agree anyway!]] I think it's worth defending. That is why this motion for a resolution was entirely correct, and it still has its accuracy and its meaning. It is important that the motion for a resolution should not be reduced by a millimeter.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e5939	Next, Mr Auer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e5960	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, a comment on the previous item on the agenda. I don't know if you've noticed the following: Under the title “Responsible federalism instead of spendor federalism”, Collaborine Meinl-Reisinger literally carried out the funding of “structural corruption” in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that this claim is the most decisive one. She should be ashamed! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] There is a need to look at the funding report, which is summarised among the following: Climate protection, social areas, National Fund for Victims of National Socialism, Special Treatment of 13th and 14ths In salary and so on. That's enough for me, ladies and gentlemen. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] But now on the current topic: The Federal Chancellor has rightly stated that trade is correct from the principle. In the country it is quite easy to say that trading is then a business if it is a business for both sides. If this is done, that's all right. The fact is that the old Commission did not understand this procedure – neither transparent nor offensive, nor informative – could it simply be described as a communication deficit. Mr Cap, it is undisputed that the motion for a resolution is not to be called into question, and it is undisputed that Parliament should be involved. This is not a matter of resentment, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] [[Abg. Wöginger: (in the direction of the Abg. Pirklhuber) With what do you have a problem now?]] However, in the light of American justice and justice, I dare to doubt that such a arbitration model is the worst, because I do not want to see myself directly delivered to this system. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: But indirectly?- Oh, my God!]] Ladies and gentlemen! As always in the case of new negotiations, when concluding such trade agreements, caution is needed – no question, of course. I want to know what's behind it. It’s interesting to read, as yesterday, in the “standard”: "The Court of Justice strengthens Europeans in front of US justice". If I read today in the “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten” of first-time discussions on TTIP, you could read and interpret many things there. Especially from the point of view of agriculture – and this will be understood – we are very careful in this regard. No question at all! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] But – and this is also added – as you know, Austria generates six out of ten jobs from export. Six out of ten employees are insured by export in Austria. Especially in economically difficult phases, we should and must do everything we can to secure and create jobs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Moser.]] And if there are opportunities there, one must also perceive them – while safeguarding Austrian interests. I was at the International Green Week in Berlin and listened to the opening address of the agricultural Commissioner Phil Hogan. I am happy and grateful because he has literally stated that he is not willing to sacrifice European standards on the world market. That was a clear announcement before thousands of people, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Pirklhuber and Mr Steinbichler.]] And if this free trade agreement comes about – which is legitimately interested in the economy, which may be legitimate from the point of view of employment in Austria – then one will have to examine under what conditions. The facts must be put on the table, the positive and the negative, and if the positive prevails, one will agree if the negatives weigh, then one will probably have to consider this well. No question, ladies and gentlemen. The fact is, however, that we alone have a free trade agreement with America, which includes, so to speak, more than 800 million people. The services and goods that are exchanged with America on a daily basis make up around €2 billion a day – seen in Europe as a whole. [[Abg. Moser: And in Austria?- Oh, my God!]] From the Austrian point of view, it is not very little either. It is therefore necessary to take seriously the critics of the agreement, who fear that the high consumer protection standards could be threatened by the opening up. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Of course! Yes!]] Of course, you have to take it seriously. There we are, no question at all. But even in Austria 85 000 jobs depend on exports and on an economic relationship with America, that should not be forgotten either. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: But not in agriculture!]] This is a crucial point. [[Abg. And what about Russia?- Oh, my God!]] – Yes, the question with Russia, of course. And precisely because we have difficulties with exports to Russia, we need every export possibility like a bite of bread. I also plead that you talk to Russia rationally – no question at all. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This mandate has been given. The Federal Chancellor has agreed. This is also true – I also assume that he obviously knows exactly what he has done – and one should make this mandate possible. We should not say from the outset that everything is bad, but we should not think from the outset that it is the best thing there is. That's not it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Wheeler: Exactly!]] [[Abg. Schwentner: That's a zero statement!]] [[President Hofer gives the bell sign.]] Especially from the point of view of agriculture, I advocate a corresponding designation of origin, because in Austria we have 14 regional designations of origin – many countries in Europe differently – and there we still need urgent action to ensure this comprehensible Austrian production [[President Hofer gives the bell sign again]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: It's out!]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: It's out!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e6203	Ladies and gentlemen, your speaking time has unfortunately expired. [[In the case of the ÖVP for the Abg, leaving the speaker's seat. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] Mr Hübner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e6237	Ladies and gentlemen! Dear viewers! Ladies and gentlemen! - Yes, yes. [[Abg. Rädler: A word to Russia!]] Mr Auer, you have told us that in the future we will consider carefully whether we can agree that we will examine everything and, if it is good for Austria, we will agree, and if it is not good, we will not agree. Have you read the quotations – Mrs. Malmström’s comments – thankfully, Mr. Cap read them on the stage today? Have you followed what the European Commission has said on this question? – It is highly questionable whether it is at all a mixed agreement and whether there is a competence of the individual national parliaments for approval. If you are serious about what you say – that we are examining here and then agreeing to whether it is good or bad – then you have to clarify and/or restrict the negotiating mandate that we have unfortunately given without If and But to the Commission. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] This means that Austria now has to step in front of the European authorities and say that, if that comes, what is now being negotiated and what we can read from the CETA agreement, which is largely known, we will not be able to agree. That is, we are already declaring that our mandate for the conclusion of such a contract does not exist. When we gave the mandate, we assumed that completely different things came out – or whatever. But to say that we sit here, watch, then look at what comes out, and then we'll be surprised to see that it's not a mixed agreement and you can't do anything, is probably dishonest to the no-one else. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Cap, whom I fully agree with in his statements, has made it clear that we have taken a decision here, and if we take this seriously, we must communicate it in the relevant bodies. That is not enough, which the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany has already done in the European institutions, but we must clearly say that our mandate does not cover such an agreement. Dear colleague of the ÖVP! What does the protection of jobs mean? What does 85 000 mean, depending on the American market? Faith Are you honest that the free trade agreement is a free letter for Austrian exporters to deliver to America? - Nothing happens. This is a one-way, at least after what Mrs Malmström told us. Ms Malmström has started her statement with this, CETA and TTIP – although we do not know what is in it at all – are good for Austria and the Austrians. You can remember? – That was the statement of introduction – without us knowing what is in it. In any case, it will be good for Austria and the Austrians. This seems to mean also the EIA because it says that if non-tariff barriers to trade are removed and there are more jobs, one can export a little more. Let us look at similar agreements. There is the NAFTA, the North American Free Trade Agreement from 1994 – 20 years old! – between Canada, the USA and Mexico. At that time, it was said that millions of jobs will be created – in Mexico they applied for it – that the American industry will come to Mexico and, as it were, Mexico will become a new USA. 20 years have passed, and what happened? – Hundreds of thousands of small farmers have died in Mexico, have given up their existence, have left the country and have either emigrated to the USA via the Rio Bravo or sit in the slums of Mexico City – colleague Pirklhuber knows it – because the large corporations have flooded the market by prices for which there was no production in Mexico. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Cheap maize import! Genetic Mais!]] Hundreds of thousands! Jobs have not been created at all in Mexico. There are only very inaccurate calculations, but it is assumed that in Mexico alone, NAFTA has destroyed half a million jobs, and also in the USA. Another example – because the investment protection agreement is so great – that we discussed in the club just before: The Canadian province of Quebec has banned a highly toxic additive in petrol, namely MMT. The producer, a U.S. company, was then brought to the arbitration court. What happened? – Due to the decision of the arbitrator, which then resulted in a comparison, the State of Canada had to withdraw the MMT ban and pay the company concerned a compensation payment of 250 million dollars to prevent it from entering the market for a time. These are facts. [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] These are just a few examples, I could give you a whole list of similar incidents. This with the MMT is particularly bizarre and particularly hard, because this substance is cancer-promoting and harmful to health. However, the Arbitration Court held that the scientific evidence was not so complete that there was still a lack of clear, long-term statistics and therefore that the trade barrier was not permitted under common agreements and standards. That is why the state was sentenced. Do we want something like that or not? – I think there must be a very clear no. We don't need such agreements and we don't want them. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] This has nothing to do with trade and free trade. [[President Hofer gives the bell sign.]] There is trade with the United States, but there is no subjugation among private arbitration courts, therefore – already my final sentence – my request to both government parties to show a backbone here and to enforce internationally what we advise and decide here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e6323	I call Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e6344	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen at the gallery! Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! One of the things you have said here from the speaker's desk, Mr Bundeskanzler, is that it is really about strengthening environmental and social standards. Yes, this is also the expectation of European citizens, but what has been the reality in recent years? What is the failure of the major international WTO negotiations? . On this very point, which concerns the quality of jobs, the quality of the environment, the quality of life in our countries. At this point, opinions and interests have split. This is also one of the key points of our criticism of the current negotiations. A free trade agreement is not an agreement to increase standards in the field of ecology, labour law or otherwise where. A free trade agreement is intended to remove customs duties or obstacles, as Mr Kogler rightly said. If a car mirror has to be produced by an industrial group in Europe differently than in the US, but this is not justified in the matter, it makes no sense. We can also understand and accept that. But if agricultural companies, whether they are Monsanto, Cargill, ADM and all others, or the largest seed producers such as DuPont, a mixed chemical group and pharmaceutical group, or the food industry of the American states, namely Walmart, to take an example, or the large soup producers want to market their products in Europe, what would they have to do for that?- Oh, my God! – They have to lobby on the American side, with their government, and they are also in the advisory staff of President Obama. In this advisory staff of nearly 600 experts, 80 percent are industrial representatives, and they have to lobby that the standards are going down in these negotiations in Europe. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] That's her goal, her political-strategic goal. That's perfectly clear! People in Europe know this, and that is what the people in Austria know. The figures speak for themselves. What is the current trade balance between the US and Europe? – We import every year goods worth €200 billion from the USA, and we export almost €300 billion – mainly industrial goods. That is to say, there is a positive balance of trade exchange in Europe at present. Now we are coming to the European stakeholders. Of course, the European industry, especially the automotive industry, is at the forefront of TTIP, which is absolutely what it wants. I don't understand colleagues Auer. If I know that the exchange of agricultural goods with the USA is just 6.5 percent, I do not understand that the Raiffeisen Association in Austria and the European Farmers' Associations are suddenly beginning to express themselves for TTIP, that the Farmers' Association is now rehearsing behind the Economic Federation, saying that the opportunity is there and one could achieve something in order to export blue mold cheese to the USA. Ladies and gentlemen, this is cockbleed and completely incomprehensible. It is unbelievable, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP. You can't pick up the raisins from the cake at such a trial. It won't work, it won't happen. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Steinbichler.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Mr Federal Chancellor, intra-European trade is a tenfold of the exchange between the US and Europe, and I think it would be wise to move forward a European labour market policy to promote economic integration in Europe, especially in order to strengthen jobs. We have the biggest crisis in the labour market in Europe after 1945 – we need solutions for that! This is the task of the European Commission and not of getting the companies involved to lower the standards at the expense of our agriculture, at the expense of our consumers. [[Congratulations with Greens, FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] Let us give some examples so that we can speak plain text! The American meat industry: The conveyor belts have been accelerated in such a way that in the American meat sector a variety of disinfectants actually need to be used so that this procedure is technically possible at all. The workers are getting sick. These are peroxy acids that are highly aggressive and attack the respiratory tracts massively. They also use performance conveyors such as ractopamin – even that not approved. [[President Hofer gives the bell sign]] Antibiotics, cloning meat, genetic engineering foods without labelling – this is the US market, our consumers don't want that. That is why it is now saying to stop TTIP as long as it is not clear where the way is going and simply fight for our consumers! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e6432	I call Mr Ertlschweiger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e6454	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear TV viewer! Much has already been said today, much of it is also right. Only one has not yet been mentioned, namely what TTIP is really. TTIP is nothing but a moral image. This free trade agreement between the European Union and the United States of America will certainly be a classic example of how one does not keep it in the curriculum of each university degree. It's a communications super-GAU. The whole debate should be based on economic data. In reality, it has long run out of the row, and this damage is homemade. Why? – For months, the Brussels coat of silence was first spread over all these negotiations. Now, because the counterwind is getting rougher because the opponents are forming, you gradually pull out with information. [[Abg. Rädler: Beautiful essay!]] In my opinion, this is not exactly a confidence-building thing. Why are you rowing back now, ladies and gentlemen? – Only because public pressure has increased, citizens have risen to the Barricads and many European politicians have finally come out of their comedy state and say that this is not how it is going and one has to push against it. [[Abg. Wheeler: Nice essay!]] Only that is why, Mr Rädler, please listen, is the EU Trade Commissioner Cecilia Malmström on Imagetour. She was also in Austria yesterday; I find – as Mr Kogler has already said – that was a weak appearance of her yesterday. She was unable to save what was no longer to be saved by taking office – when she placed the twelve-page negotiating mandate online. De facto is muzzled here behind locked doors, it is not transparently acted. The media damage is done. Cecilia Malmström is not primarily responsible for this, but in the media she describes the publication of these TTIP documents – I quote – as “an unprecedented step” or says that “there has never been so much transparency in any negotiation as at TTIP,” which is indeed an outrage. Everyone has to think about what they're talking about up there in Brussels, what these people are getting out of. What does “exemplary ” mean? What does “as much transparency as never ”? – As a powerful citizen, you have to become straight-hearing and stout. Somehow, in this whole TTIP debate, one does not feel that it is a parade example of the collective demise of citizens and politicians, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and the FPÖ representatives.]] A group of doll players – we call them elites, corporations, lobbyists – leaves the rest of Europe – we call him the normal mortals and the people elected by them; Mr Rädler, this is what you are talking about – like the puppets are dancing. The fact is that many people in Europe still do not have a pale shimmer of what really comes out after the conclusion of this agreement. From the chlorhuhn to the arbitration courts in which companies can sue the states when they adopt subsequent rules and laws that endanger investment, everything is in place. What people feel, however, is – and this is a fact – that high environmental, social and food standards are at risk, and that the particular interests of these elites, these groups and these lobbyists are more than transparency and information for the rest. That can't be it, ladies and gentlemen. That's very dangerous! [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and the FPÖ representatives.]] Politics must primarily serve people. Although not yet a single chapter is completed – no single chapter is completed! – even now, haly lawyers are whether it is a pure or a mixed agreement. This is a serious difference, because if it is a pure agreement – it has been communicated more often today – then the majority of EU governments and the consent of the European Parliament are sufficient. However, if it is a mixed agreement, ladies and gentlemen, then all the Members of this House here in the Austrian Parliament are obliged to vote and to confess color without perceiving and deceiving. Here you have to stand and explain to people why you vote in favour of this agreement or why you vote against it. One thing has shown the whole debate: The citizens of Europe can be told a lot, and they believe a lot, but they do not believe every lavender either, because if 97 percent of a total of 150 000 opinions are negative in a public consultation on the subject of TTIP and investor protection – which has already been mentioned today – this shows me that there are very decent citizens who rise to the barricades. And what's that? As far as Brussels is concerned, I do not need to tell you that. This is a massive loss of trust and credibility, which leads to the realization that politics does not have to take place behind closed doors, but must be an open dialogue – even if the corporations, elites and lobbyists do not like to hear. That's a fact! That's the fact! – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e6554	The next item is the speech by Mr Hable. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e6575	Mr President. High house! Federal Chancellor! Estimated citizens! TTIP – the free trade agreement between the European Union and the United States – is on the agenda once again. It is a discussion that is being held unfairly. It is a discussion that lacks honesty. That is why I would like to try to incite this discussion to honesty, and I would also like to start with the communication of the Federal Government on this matter. It was very amazing what Mr Krainer said yesterday in the debate with Commissioner Malmström – he is not here right now. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: However!]] He said that the SPÖ was not at all there, but it was only the Minister for Economic Affairs of the EIA who gave the Commission the mandate to negotiate with the United States. [[Abg. Kickl: (in the direction of hall exit) There it stands eh!]] So, Federal Chancellor, you were obviously not involved. It was a single entry of the ÖVP, a single entry of the Minister of Economic Affairs. – This claim is absurd! To stand in the public, and to say that to the Commissioner, is only embarrassing. [[Abg. Strache: (in the direction of the Abg. There he is!]] The truth is that it's another one. The European Commission does not negotiate this agreement with Jux and Tollery. The European Commission has not itself come to believe that a free trade agreement with the USA would now be necessary, but rather that the Commission negotiates on behalf of 28 Member States, which have given this mandate unanimously, including Austria, which is therefore also awarded by the Austrian Federal Government. But what does the Austrian Federal Government do? – She travels to Brussels and says that she is mandated per TTIP, and then she returns to Austria and competes against the same trade agreement for which she has just given the negotiating mandate. The debate on investment protection agreements is just as unfair, because it was the Austrian Federal Government that vehemently advocated this investment protection clause in Brussels. Then the same federal government goes back to Austria and claims here in the public and in all media that there is Schindluder operating. In reality, all of this is only dishonest and unreasonable. [[Abg. Cute: And what do NEOS want?]] In addition to more honesty that we call for, transparency is, of course, a necessary prerequisite. Transparency is necessary in democracy, it is one of the pillars of democracy and, of course, in the negotiations for such a trade agreement. Transparency, of course, is not only the responsibility of the Commission, but also the responsibility of the Austrian Federal Government, because it was the 28 Member States, including the Austrian Federal Government, that kept the negotiating mandate secret. It is also necessary to say that. So, everyone is responsible to show more transparency here. [[Abg. New builder: Yes, but you too!]] The European Commission has been moving in this direction. That's positive to see. For the first time, not only position papers have been published, but also proposals for the text of the negotiations have been published. That's not enough, but it's a positive start. I asked the Commissioner specifically yesterday about the further steps. It has said that everything will be further guided, much more will be published, except for all the sensitive things that should not be spread to the public before negotiations, in order not to endanger its negotiating position. In any case, we will also take a very close look at the need for transparency on the part of NEOS. If you ask us about our position, you also have to say honestly, you can't be per or double TTIP now if the final outcome is not on the table yet. [[Abg. Schwentner: No, please!]] But we say quite clearly: We're per free trade. Why? – Because free trade has created prosperity, especially in Austria, which lives as a small country from export and free trade. We depend on these free trade agreements. I expect, Mr President, to conclude by saying this, that this discussion, less panic, more orientation on opportunities, not just the focus on the risks and more use of this federal government for jobs in this country, is absolutely essential. [[President Hofer gives the bell sign]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e6694	The next item is the speech by Mrs Muttonen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e6716	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! What has become clearly visible and clear today: Parliament is very skeptical about TTIP and, of course, the inclusion of special culprits in the Free Trade Agreement with the USA, which has already become very clear in our joint proposal. Between two societies with well-functioning legal systems such as American and European society, special-laws do not improve the legal standard, but they certainly do worsen it. It is, therefore, pointless to include even these special clauses, these so-called ISDS clauses. In the clear text, that means: Keep the clauses inside, we do not agree with TTIP. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Right!]] This attitude has not changed, neither in Parliament nor in the Federal Government. [[I should like to congratulate the SPÖ and the representatives of FPÖ and Greens.]] However, our request also deals with our concern for the high standards that we have struggled and worked out so laboriously, namely the rights of workers, the standards of consumer rights, our social systems and also the environment. And these concerns, ladies and gentlemen, are justified. An example: Last year there was a message from Chattanooga in Tennessee, which sounds pretty strange for Austrian ears, yes, for European ears. There Republican politicians, such as the governor of Tennessee, have put considerable pressure on VW and its employees. The aim of the campaign was to prevent workers from organizing themselves trade unions. Why? – The South states in the USA are promoting free trade unionism. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: That's incredible!]] Another example that gives a lot of thought is the subsidiary of Deutsche Telekom T-Mobile USA. In fact, they try to prevent their employees from organizing themselves in a trade union way by all means. However, this is contrary to corporate policy in Europe. The strange transformation of this German Telekom from one, if you want, Dr. Jekyll in Europe to a Mr. Hyde in the USA is already very peculiar, but can also be observed at other companies. This alone makes possible the much lower standard for workers' rights and trade union rights. Commissioner Malmström, as she did here in Parliament yesterday, can still say so often that TTIP would not negotiate any rules that would lower our standards. That may be already, but one thing is clear, ladies and gentlemen: TTIP would intensify international competition between American and European companies in such a way that Austrian and European companies would then be under great pressure, because if US companies could benefit from this competition through wage, social and environmental dumping, this will automatically increase the pressure on us to avoid our standards. That is why the other points in our proposal are so important. In them we demand that our free trade partners implement at least social, labour and environmental minimum standards. The US hasn't done this yet. Intensive trade relations with the U.S. have not been good or bad – that has already been mentioned today. But we need to be careful and careful about how they are designed. The question is: Whose interests do they reflect? Do they reflect only the economic and profit interests of companies and corporations or the interests of workers, consumers and interests to protect the environment? The question is also: Are the benefits justly distributed, or is it a matter of individual interests to all of us? In this context, however, I would also like to point out art and culture – which is particularly important to me. We don't want an American mainstream. Therefore, it is necessary to exempt film, audiovisual media and art from TTIP as a whole in order to preserve the diversity of our culture in Europe. I believe that even art must not be exposed to the play of economic forces. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e6798	The next item is Mrs. Dr.ck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e6820	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Future researcher Matthias Horx writes in his book “Future daren: Fearing fear has become a business model of the media because they know that we have been calibrated to fear due to evolution and our system of fear has not changed in recent times. [[Abg. Rädler: Mr. Pirklhuber, he's always scared!]] We are now looking for imaginary enemies: Today's saber tooth is, among other things, the TTIP trade agreement. Yes, our citizens are insecure. Therefore, it is all the more important to have a fact-based, serious discussion, because we owe our quality of life to the 60 percent export rate and after all, the US is our third most important export destination. [[Abg. Schwentner: Yes, it did! There was also a motion for a resolution on this.]] In clear text: We thus ensure 85 000 jobs in Austria. Also yesterday at the Academy of Sciences, Dr. Exner-Wöhrer confirmed as an entrepreneur, as CEO, that she can only maintain her research and development department in Salzburg through its locations in the USA. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Since European markets are weakening and Russia is currently not a reliable partner due to international law and human rights violations, we need to focus on overseas markets. This is the easiest for entrepreneurs in particular through a high-quality trade agreement. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: What are regional political...? Have you ever considered where the jobs actually are?]] As Mrs Malmström presented himself yesterday in the debate here in Parliament and in the Academy of Sciences, it can be seen that the delicate issues are now also being addressed. As far as transparency is concerned, now – Mr Hable has already done it – the background information online. But also with regard to what Mr Kogler has criticised so much – he has said that there is no SME chapter at all; he has informed me of this with intermediate calls in my last speech – it should be noted: In the meantime, this has been around for a long time, and it's already online as well. The standards have already been addressed, and the following must be said about investment protection: The negotiations on investment protection have been suspended, as this consultation mechanism has brought 150 000 reactions. I think it is a teaching to the Commission – and the Commissioners are not real objectors – that it now means going back to the start in the field of investment protection. We heard it yesterday at the Academy: There are good suggestions on how this investment protection is soluble, which was also included in the negotiating mandate of our 28 Heads of Government. Mr Hable has already mentioned the peculiar communication in the parties. Yes, it was a strange question of my colleague Krainer, but if it can be read in the paper that the colleague Holzinger shows a board on which “STOP TTIP” is on, this also counter-carries the negotiating mandate of our Federal Chancellor. There is no agreement within the FPÖ either, because here you are against it, but in Brussels Vice President Matthias Krenn, mayor of FPÖ, voted for TTIP at EUROCHAMBRES – I am sitting next to him. [[Abg. Strache: What, the Krenn is in Brussels?! The Krenn is a member of the EU?- Oh, my God!]] We don't need to fear American companies anymore, because Apple, Nike, Microsoft, Google and Co are already well anchored here, and our big companies also know how to do business in the US. [[Abg. Kickl: Yes!]] I am convinced that this trade agreement will benefit the medium-sized economy, because it is about reducing bureaucratic barriers, complex import regulations and double-tracks in testing, which offers great opportunities. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Pirklhuber and Mr Steinbichler.]] Mr Steinbichler, you obviously also trust our economic policy, because you are still a member of the Economic Federation. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] A well-negotiated TTIP can lead to a successful economic recovery, increase growth and employment. [[Abg. Schwentner: Your economic policy is frightening!]] Unlike President Kaske, I trust our entrepreneurs and employees – they have proven it in the past – to be successful in exporting. We owe our unemployed citizens in this Republic the opportunity to take this opportunity seriously.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e6945	The next item is the speech by Mr MMMag. Dr. Kassinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e6966	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian population has less and less confidence in you. The Austrian population has less and less confidence in the processes that are taking place in Brussels in the European Union. She is increasingly feeling that very essential things about her life are being advised and decided by a few dozen negotiators, people who have not been elected by anyone in any backrooms in Brussels or Frankfurt. And the Austrians are also concerned – well-founded concern, I understand this concern – that their interests that the interests of Austria in this tower in Babel in Brussels are not really well represented. Among the issues concerned are things that a few people think of from the European Central Bank, including things that a few governors have in mind in the framework of the European Stability Mechanism, including a few things that a few negotiators think of in the framework of these TTIP negotiations. All this costs a lot of money – billions! – and thousands of jobs. But I'm coming to TTIP now. What is this TTIP? – A transatlantic trade and investment partnership – that’s what the title says. It has always been done as if these investment protection provisions were only a minor part on page 57 of this agreement. No, there are two main components: the reduction of so-called trade restrictions – which I am quite clear from Mr Cap: there is a very critical need to assess the extent to which it is not a question of reducing standards that we have here in Europe – and these investment protection clauses, even though they are equal to us; otherwise, the agreement would not be called TTIP, but “TTP” without “I”. ‘I’ stands for these investment protection clauses. We call on SPÖ and ÖVP at last to take clear positions on both areas: on the one hand, on trade restrictions and on the other also on investment protection clauses. It is not enough for us to give unreflected cheers of itself that thousands of jobs will be created again, no one believes you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Hübner has already responded to NAFTA – the very opposite has occurred. There have been hundreds of thousands of existences and jobs destroyed. As regards the negotiations, our views on freedom are quite clear: We do not want to privatise public procurement, we do not want to undermine the protection of social and environmental aspects in procurement, we want the best bidder principle, we do not want to reduce workers' rights and labour standards! Just by the way: The United States has not signed the standards of the ILO, i.e. the standards of the International Labour Organization. So what do you expect from such an agreement? This will hardly help to improve these standards. We do not want a deterioration in existing and future climate and environmental standards. Just by the way: The Americans have not signed the Kyoto Protocol. So what is expected for a development? We do not, of course, want to soften food safety, but we do not want to have a GMO. benzides and seeds and the like; Hormonal meat, chlorinated chicken – that's all known. We call on the representatives of the Federal Government to finally deposit this in all its clarity in Brussels! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] None of this has happened so far. What is officially deposited in Brussels? – Officially deposited is an unlimited mandate without any restrictions, including, of course, investment protection clauses, that is fact. Everything else is “Kronen Zeitung” marketing, dear Mr. Federal Chancellor. This mandate was also reaffirmed several times, most recently before Christmas. With regard to the second main area, we also have a clear position: We demand an immediate demand for these investment protection provisions and special claims rights of the Group and for the private arbitration courts. So no herumites like now. – Currently it’s “frozen”, so it’s frozen, you’re waiting for the excitement to lie down, and then you’re going through the back door again. We call for an immediate cut-off and a clear no in this respect from our Federal Government in Brussels! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would like to conclude with the interview of Commissioner Malmström, who has today appeared in the standard. The “standard” asks: “The Austrian chancellor Werner Faymann seems to be very TTIP-critical. Do you have contacts?" Ms Malmström replied: “I can only say that a mandate has been given to us to agree on TTIP, also from Austria. On three or four occasions, the European Council, the Heads of State or Government, unanimously renewed its support for us. Finally, the conclusions of the EU Summit in December 2014 stated that the EU Commission should complete TTIP as soon as possible." “Are you still supported by the government in Vienna?” is another question – the last sentence, and it is an exciting sentence – and the answer is: [[President Hofer gives the bell sign]] “The Austrian government supported these conclusions. At least in Brussels.’
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e7067	Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Schwentner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e7089	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! Dear viewers! Many areas have already been mentioned in this TTIP agreement in the future. I would like to mention them once again, and to sum up them, and above all to mention a very concrete point, which is essential to me. It's about food standards. We all know the chlorhendln on the posters, which the “Kronen Zeitung” also posterted, and this is relatively catchy and understandable. We know the problems of agriculture which are going to be affected, and this is what Mr Pirklhuber has very detailedly explained. It's about hormone meat and genmais, these are things that can be understood very clearly and quickly. It is also about environmental protection, consumer and consumer protection, and it is about workers' and workers' rights, which have so far been lacking in me and today. And one essential point: It's about democracy! – Mr Kanzler, you have spoken about this and the arbitration courts too, and if you are clearly opposed to it in Brussels and are committed to changing it, we are pleased that you are doing so. Please note, however, that one of your members of the government, the main minister responsible for the very first line, obviously gallops in another direction. To prevent that will probably be your job as chancellor. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Steinbichler.]] It cannot be said that Minister Mitterlehner is now going and is almost accepting this provisional application. This means we have to understand that it is decided and implemented at national level, that is, directly in Austria, before there is an international agreement. That is to say, the national parliaments - and it has obviously been remembered yesterday with Commissioner Malmström - are supposed to implement this first, and if your whole strength goes in this direction, Mr Chancellor, it is important to prevent this and really stop this provisional application. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would also like to address democracy policy at national level in this context. It is now just four months since we have adopted this motion for a resolution here in Parliament, and I would like, above all, to remind colleagues from the EIA that this has also happened on their initiative. [[Abg. Wöginger: Passes eh! What kind of problem do you have?]] – Yes, fits well, but obviously now it goes in a different direction and obviously no longer fits. [[Abg. Wöger: What kind of problem do you have?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] Remember what you have initiated, together with colleagues from SPÖ, and what has been contributed by Parliament as a whole, namely that Parliament may use high minimum standards in the environment and in the workers' sector and also protect them. [[Abg. Wöginger: Passes eh!]] Parliament should take action and call on the government to increase transparency in the negotiations and that, in agreements with States where there are developed legal systems, as it stands in the request, we negotiate with Canada and the United States, and we would assume that there are democratic systems in these states, we do not need international arbitration courts, as they negotiate far away from democratic and transparent mechanisms. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There, lawyers who are strong, into which much money flows from the corporations, are being negotiated with interests that support the corporations. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] Explain to us why this should be necessary in connection with legal systems such as those in America and Canada, or why, if this is contained in our request, there should be a whole different direction. I would also like to say what this means for workers' rights. We have been here for a very long time in the National Council discussing wage and social dumping, things that are happening in worker protection, but also in the wage sector by neighbouring countries. What's going on there goes much further: In particular, America has not signed many of the norms concerning the ILO agreements. It is about ILO workers' rights, namely the creation of trade unions, wage-justice measures, minimum wage measures – many things that we do not want to interfere with. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Prince]] We do not want workers' rights to be levelled downwards, but we want them to remain on a standard that is adequate and adequate or raised. In this sense, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP: Get stuck! Consider this request and work to ensure that your minister does not go in that direction, which we have not decided here in the National Council! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Woeinger]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e7251	Mrs Vringerstorfer is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e7272	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! High house! We have been discussing a lot about TTIP in the last few minutes and heard very, very much. The fact is, it's about speculations, about leaked negotiation documents, about deceptions, about contrary statements. The question is: What and above all who can actually believe about TTIP at all? [[Call the ÖVP:Frank!]] The EU and the USA are accusing each other of being against the publication of negotiating content. Now you have a bit counter-directed, after all, 30 documents have already been published, but that's just a pro-forma handling. Of these 30 published documents, de facto only six are actual negotiating documents – even here at the surface a deception. Let's go to the Austrian position at TTIP. – There are also some contrary statements. On the one hand, Faymann says something different than a meddling: Faymann does not need an investor protection clause, but Mitterlehner is in favour, and there are also different statements in the Austrian positions on GMOs. The Chamber of Commerce speaks for GMOs on behalf of Austria. So you see, here are some things very, very inconspicuous, and I think it is time to finally bring a little light into the whole. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Of course, the question is whether we can do this at all, because the negotiations on most of the content are still not transparent. Even the marketing trip of Commissioner Malmström yesterday is another contribution to the general confusion. Again, only speculations are startled. The fact is, we get a gift, a packerl, but the majority of the Austrians don't want it at all. And what the government does is that it changes a little bit on the gift paper, on the meshes. Let us come to the content, and this content is really very, very depressing and really to question from the current point of view. Officially, this TTIP is to be designed as a “living agreement”. This means nothing more than that a permanent rounding-up of the text of the Treaty is possible even after ratification, so small changes can be carried out creepingly and permanently. The EU Commission also supports a fast-track procedure. Do you know what this fast-track procedure is? – This will enable permanent changes to the text of the Treaty, such as the addition of Annexes – and the whole of it without the consent of national parliaments – to be made. [[Call the SPÖ:No!]] That's all in all: Who signs a contract whose contents we do not know on the one hand, whose scope can be constantly expanded, and where the whole thing is not even clear whether we can even agree? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer]] It's great that we're talking about this today, it's quite, very important that we inform, but finally, the question is whether we can also talk about it. It is still not clear whether this is actually a mixed agreement. There are always statements in the direction, but I would like to put here an O-tone by Commissioner Oettinger as a small rod in the window. Not too long ago, a few months ago, he said: We would be stupid if we made an agreement, TTIP, to which all 28 EU Member States would still have to agree. – So this O-tone is very opposed to a mixed agreement. The investor protection clause was also often mentioned: I mean, we can't even talk about whether we want these now or not. You all know, this clause is included in CETA, CETA is in the ratification phase, that is, that this move has expired. I still have two concerns. One thing is: Let's talk about it. It'll be good, I'm just afraid we won't be able to change much here. But what I'm asking for is the following: Compared to the standards we have here in Austria – and here also a small reference to this resolution of the National Council, which we as the Stronach team did not support at that time, because it simply goes far too little – these minimum standards of the agreement are already a reduction. [[President Hofer gives the bell sign]] TiSA is not currently being discussed, the agreement is going in a similar direction to CETA and TTIP. I ask the government not to sleep there at least – a sentence, Mr President – and to become active in good time. [[President Hofer gives the bell sign again]] In addition, I call for a personal liability of the politicians who are responsible for TTIP here, and they should be held liable for it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e7341	Mr Pock is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e7362	Mr President. Estimated government members! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate spectators at the gallery! I would like to follow up on what my colleague Hable said, namely on transparency, but also on the honesty with which we are dealing with this issue in the Austrian Parliament. If you listen to the debate here, you hear a lot of anti-Americanism, you hear a lot of dishonesty. And what is very surprising – it was in itself a topic that the opposition strongly operated: Today, the most qualitative statements have come from the ÖVP, from Mr Auer, as well as from the Federal Chancellor and not from the opposition. You have to say that quite clearly. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Sherak and the ÖVP.]] In fact, there is panic in this case, for example in the field of consumer rights, where it is claimed that suddenly there will be quite different products than before. That won't happen! The Free Trade Agreement has already agreed – one of the few pillars that exists – that consumer rights standards on both sides of the Atlantic must continue to be respected. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Indirect! Indirect! Price dumping!]] The products are not getting worse. The concern of agriculture must, of course, be taken very seriously. The second point: They are now talking about the agriculture of genetic engineering and the cultivation of genetically modified plants in Austria – this is in no way working. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: We will look!]] Today we have on the agenda a decision by the European Parliament that the national states have the right to self-determination. We build in Austria what we want! [[Abg. Pirklhuber: This is a little blue-eyed!]] This can no longer spoil us from a free trade agreement in the future, which does not work. [[Congratulation with NEOS and ÖVP.]] – This is just as a subject that is not true. Tag Culture: We're worried about the sudden rollover of Hollywood. God forbid! Someone may have seen “House of Cards” and has come upon stupid ideas. In fact, the cultural sector has been completely removed from the Free Trade Agreement. We do not negotiate this area at all. That is to say, we are panicking about chlorinated chickens, which must never be imported, with regard to genmais which must not be grown, with regard to the cultural area which is already excluded, and are trying to actually overthrow a free trade agreement on it. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: 45 000 tonnes of cattle!]] [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] But of course we have also made very constructive proposals. We do not think it needs this investor protection clause that has been the standard so far. What we have proposed as a solution to procedural situations is the establishment of an International Commercial Court based on an existing model, in which, among other things, an environmental expert and an expert or an expert in the field of labour law must be part of the judiciary. This would be a concrete proposal, which can also be sent to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany in a negotiating mandate to Brussels. So the question is: Why free trade and what form of free trade? We NEOS have a very clear vision of the Free Trade Agreement, which now does not necessarily have the form of TTIP, as we have discussed it today. We see a common economic area with North America, in particular with the United States, in this agreement. We see a common economic area of more than 800 million people, two economic areas, both of which are currently dominant in the world economy and can be dominant in a cooperation, in cooperation, beyond economic data, by making a contribution to democracy and transparency beyond the economic sphere and the creation of wealth among workers internationally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e7457	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[11:58:25]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e7478	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[11:58:36]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e7609	In accordance with § 74a para. 2 before the entry into the agenda of the Rules of Procedure, put forward a request for urgent consideration of the self-employed amendment 855/A(E) tabled at the same time by Mr Schellhorn, colleagues on the offensive package entitled 'Entrepreneurial Austria'. Under the Rules of Procedure, the request for urgent procedure will be discussed at 3 p.m. [[11:58:57]] Request for a brief debate on the response to the question 2864/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e7636	Similarly, before entering the agenda, I would like to say that the request made pursuant to Rule 92 of the Rules of Procedure is a short debate on the reply to Question No 3026/J by Mr Hagen, Mr President of the Commission, on the security offensive for Austria: To stop attacks by illegal immigrants by the Federal Minister for the Interior. Since this meeting called for a urgent request to be dealt with, the brief debate will take place following this one. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e7662	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 6 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP per 81, FPÖ 75, Green 63 as well as Team Stronach and NEOS per 33 minutes. We shall now proceed to the vote on the speaking time just presented. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign in this regard. – This is unanimously accepted. [[12:00:14]] 1. Point Report of the Health Committee on the Government Template (445 D.B._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Reproductive Medicine Act, the General Civil Code, the Genetic Engineering Act and the IVF Fund Act (Reproductive Medicines Act 2015 – FMEDRAG 2015) (450 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e7701	We'll get to the 1st. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein has spoken. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e7729	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen here in the house and at home on the screens! We now have to debate the new reproductive medicine law, and I have to say honestly, I think it is a very black day for this Republic of Austria – a black day for the families and the future children in this Republic of Austria! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the Stronach team.]] First of all, let me look at the following: There was a Supreme Judgment, which found that there is a disparity between homosexual people and heterosexual people. A lesbian couple complained, and then it was found. In response to this, nothing else happens but that we immediately re-hipped and continue to open the law for homosexual couples, namely, in this case for lesbian couples, we decide on artificial fertilization. It is a game of politics that is being driven here: We are opening up the laws, liberalizing the laws in the area of adoption law and also in the field of artificial fertilization. That means that it is more and more possible for single people to do certain things, namely: Single children may adopt, and single children may undergo artificial fertilization. To this end, the laws are opened – including the votes of the ÖVP, which at the same time says outside: We didn't want this anyway, but the court has unfortunately found that it is an unequal treatment! This disparity has been made aware of by you, for you know very well that your voters, if you would announce it outside, would ask for it so that you would not agree. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Therefore, you try to shift the responsibility, the responsibility to the courts, the last to make their judgments on the basis of the laws you have passed. You should think about it – and above all the voters! [[Congratulation with the FPÖ and the Abg. Franz.]] Now to something that's really a novum: This law does not leave Austria cold. We have over 700 000 e-mails from people from Austria who have spoken against this law, and this is not the right margin, it is not the right conservative edge, but it is people from the middle of society who are afraid of this law, because here the Pandora can no longer act. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the Stronach team.]] I would also like to appeal to the conscience of every individual Member here – really to the conscience of every individual Member! – not to go out in the vote and say: Well, I wasn't there anyway!, but to vote against it, because only then is it a voice that really is against it. Getting out of there is a pathetic act! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the Stronach team.]] I can go out if I don't know exactly: Shouldn't I? Now on the content of what we criticise here: This law not only allows artificial fertilization for lesbian couples, there is the same judgment, where one could have acted differently, but there are still other points to be decided. Point one: Egg donation. – The egg donation should now be allowed. You're just pretending to be comparable to a sperm donation. Of course it's not. Then: Women must submit to a proper procedure. That's how they get high hormonds in front of them. This also concerns women's health, and I have already noted in the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection, and this is particularly disturbing to me in relation to those women's rights women who always say that they are committed to women's rights. And that's... There's no upper limit! Every woman between the ages of 18 and 30 can donate an egg, as often as she wants, once a year, if possible, even twice a year. But we all know – and we even discussed it here a few years ago – that hormone stimulation poses a massive health risk, especially for hormone-induced tumour diseases. For example, the risk of breast cancer in women is massively increased by precisely this stimulation. I would have been there – Mrs Federal Minister, here I am now with you! – you, as Minister of Health, expect that if you already allow all of this, you will have at least one limit, namely that a woman may donate eggs a maximum of three times. I know it won't be paid, but there's an effort compensation. The sum of €1500 will be imported, so much will probably be paid in about. This is, of course, tempting for many women, especially women who have little money. [[Call:]] It's nice when you say it won't be. Only: They get money when they donate plasma, they get money when they give off seeds. And, of course, there will be a corresponding amount of compensation for the ova donation. And of course, this is an interesting source of income for women who have little money. I'm telling you honestly: When I was studying, there were many, many students – including me – who were involved in drug studies at the time because it was said that it was all harmless anyway. This makes it relatively easy to “deliver” money – under quotation marks! That's what it's going to be like: It will be said to women unless everything is safe, because our doctors work according to the highest medical standards. – Yes, they do, I don’t want to criticize it at all, or even claim that the standards are not met, the question is: What is it like with the mid- and long-term consequences these women will have? – I would have expected something to do for that! [[Congratulation with the FPÖ and the Abg. Franz.]] In the case of egg cell donation, a second factor is very important, which is the overstimulation. You can't even rule out this law, you can't even see how far women are being stimulated. There could have been a border, too, by saying: A maximum of five or six ovaries may be taken from a woman per stimulation! There is no longer any reason to overstimulate women. It's all gone! I would have expected something from you as Minister of Health in the sense of women who are going to donate eggs. I have to tell you that, Mrs. Federal Minister! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the Stronach team.]] As regards egg donation, I would also like to appeal to the health speakers of the Greens: You wrote yesterday in a press service with regard to the effects on identity development, binding problems, relationship breakups, puberty problems you would like to have a psychological advice, and that would be free of charge. If you know what consequences all this has, then you should consider whether it makes sense to pass such a law if you already say that these problems are going to happen to us! So this is a contradiction in itself! I cannot give a law the consent, knowing that on the one hand there is no psychological advice on this and on the other hand the problems will come to our attention. I think that is irresponsible if you, Mrs Mückstein, are aware of this anyway. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the Stronach team.]] Point two, which is now decided in this law, is the so-called pre-implantation diagnosis. There are, of course, different aspects here, and I'm trying to pull this up a little bit. Mrs. Federal Minister, I know you're gonna say you don't want pregnancy on trial. - Yes, I understand, I'm right about you. And: Yes, there are different approaches to pre-implantation diagnostics. There are parents who are genetically pre-loaded, who may already have a disabled child or have many disabled people in the family who want to know before, because they do not want to have a pregnancy on trial, where they then say: Okay, now we know the child's sick, we're driving it off! I'll give you that right. But: There it is also in detail! Name: We have a pre-implantation diagnosis, where one sometimes does not even know what one is looking for. If there are points where it is said that one might assume that somewhere is a genetic defect, and it is better that the woman does not become pregnant, I must say: It's so dirty written that you can say that you don't know what you're looking for! So here, Mrs. Federal Minister, I tell you quite honestly: I would have liked a clarification. And the question will also be: If you make a pre-implantation diagnosis, what will you find still everything you are not looking for? What about the doctor's obligation to inform? What happens then? We have heard in the Committee on Expert Hearing, the fertilized eggs that are not planted, because they may have a genetic disposition or because they are too many because they are not needed, because the transfer should be limited to a maximum of two embryos, will be destroyed after five years. So I have to tell you, Mrs. Federal Minister: This is a way of dealing with life, you're getting a little drowsy! We're going in a direction where we can't do that any more. And if you look at England, where over a million embryos are frozen, which are eventually destroyed, you have to ask yourself: Where does that end? Do we really want that? [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the Stronach team.]] I would like to make a brief comment on one point on which we have also raised a debate in the Committee. As an expert, we had the Professor Hengstschläger in the committee, who told us great things about how great this isn't all right now, everything would be great! This professor was also disturbed by the media, and he emphasizes everywhere how safe this method would be and that it is the best law at all. His statement nevertheless strengthened me further in my opinion that this is exactly the wrong way. He spoke, on the one hand, of the beginning of a fertilization, on the other, of the end of a fertilization, and on the other hand we can see everything between them. This is completely legal and has been done in Austria for ten years. – If that is the case, then something has been done for ten years, of which no one obviously knows anything! Genetic dispositions have been detected here and artificially fertilized ova have been discarded! Among other things, an increased risk of breast cancer has been identified! In this context, I say: Let's be glad that the parents of American actress Angelina Jolie have not been subject to this PID or that polar body diagnosis, otherwise she wouldn't be in this world! A genetic disposition cannot be a reason to discard a fertilized, otherwise healthy viable eggell! A disposition doesn't mean a disease breaks out either! [[Abg. Musiol: impossible!]] That is why I would say that you have to be a little more careful here, what you really allow here, what you allow here and what a reason is that you may not have a pregnancy or that an egg cell is so to speak considered “sick”. In my opinion, this law – as it is – in many, many points is very inadequate, really lacking! I miss the call of women's rights activists, I really miss them! For this goes toward the exploitation of women, especially poor women. In this area, there has been no re-examination so far, I have already mounted this in the committee. I would really ask you to look seriously at this, otherwise we probably have in a few years very, very many women, very many egg cell donors who suffer from tumor diseases. That can't be in the inventor's mind! But also in the field of PID one should consider carefully and carefully control the extent to which the abuse door and gate are opened here. I would like to say something else: in your direction, Minister of Justice, Mr Brandstetter, and in the direction of the ÖVP: Each court ruling opens up two possibilities. We can either open everything – both for homosexuals and everyone else – or we tighten the laws for the heterosexuals. I say this now also with regard to the judgment on the right of adoption that took place last week: Even there you don't have to open the right of adoption immediately for everyone, you could also tighten it for married couples. Think about it!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e7881	I call Mr Klubobmann. Arbitrator. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e7903	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear viewers on the televisions and on the visitor gallery! A warm welcome to the Pensionist group from St. Pölten! However, I am also pleased that many activists from the field of homosexual equality and anti-discrimination have come and are attending this debate today – probably because they are happy about this step! [[Abg. Kickl: At home is the silent majority!]] I am particularly pleased that Dr. Helmut Graupner listens to us at the gallery: He is the lawyer who has made it possible for the Supreme Courts by his courteous action, that we now have a highest court ruling, which makes it possible for us to reorganise this law as we have long wanted. Thanks also to him at the visitor gallery! [[It was in favour of SPÖ and Greens and Members of the NEOS.]] I am actually not a member of the Committee on Health and Justice or of the Committee on Justice. This law, however, represents an important step for me as a clubman of my group and for me personally. I have therefore notified myself to document that this elimination of discrimination, which has so far been in the law, is a social concern beyond the medical and legal issues. It took a long time. We have needed the Constitutional Court or the European Court of Justice to help. But even if it took a long time, it must be stressed that it is an important step. It brings an improvement to many people affected, including in medical terms. For the reality of women who do not have partners or live in same sex lesbian relationships and still have a desire for children has so far led them to try to do so themselves on the brink of legality, in illegality. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] I therefore believe that it is useful to enable this child wish to be fulfilled under legal medical care in the future. For this reason, it is important to make artificial fertilization possible for lesbian couples today and here! With regard to the second part, the pre-implantation diagnosis, it is to be said that we have been a follower in Europe so far. It is important to use this diagnostic – under strictest criteria and conditions! – also possible. I believe that this is also an old demand for women's policy. It is therefore of great importance that we adopt this law today. The second point I would like to address concerns adoption by homosexual couples. The Constitutional Court has raised further questions in this area with the recent findings of the last days, namely the possibility to open up the adoption possibility for homosexual couples or to remove the prohibition of adoption. On the one hand, it will be on the High House to solve these questions. On the other hand, we should also discuss why we are so serious. Why do we, although many of the parties – and our SPÖs, have long been in need of dealing with these questions by law, always need highest court rulings until we are able to make such decisions as legislators? In general, no matter what question it is, it is preferable to me that the legislator becomes active on his own rather than being forced to do so or put before final facts by the highest court. I therefore appeal to the Members who are trying to give themselves a back and recognize this social reality that already exists and to many of those who feel discriminated against and discriminated against on many issues of our social law, without any other person in the heterosexual partnership being affected by it. That would be my appeal! At the same time, however, I am pleased with today's legislative decision.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e7955	Mr Dr Franz came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e7977	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like High house! Dear Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the gallery and in front of the TV screens! We are quite clear against this law because this law is not ethically acceptable and because this law disregards children's rights. The rights of children are laid down in the UN Convention on Children's Rights and in our Constitution. Article 1 of the Federal Constitutional Law on the Rights of Children clearly states: For all measures relating to children, child welfare must be the priority consideration. This law does not include children, it is primarily about the wishes of potential parents. Furthermore, a herb and beet parenthood is propagated, genetic parents are mixed with social parents and so on. We're going in the direction of a popularity that's called liberal, but in the end, we're leaving only a chaos and disappointed people behind. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and FPÖ.]] Unfortunately, I also have to express my disappointment with the ÖVP: You were always a family party, you're not now! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Musiol.]] On the point of ethics and the ethical reasons why we reject this law, the PID, the pre-implantation diagnosis, in particular, is to be mentioned. With the PID, Eugenik becomes even more socially capable. We already have the embryopathic indication for abortion: We are allowed to disarm the disabled until shortly before birth! The PID is an extension and, at the same time, an incitement to these eugenic measures, because one pretends that the PID could now push back the terrible fetocids that are caused by disabilities, because one has already drifted away before. But you have to know: The PID, even if it is a medical measure, is not a healing measure, but a diagnostic that leads to the killing, the destruction of human life! You have to know this when you vote here. The main problem of PID is: We clearly distinguish between whom and unvalued life here! Unvalued life can be killed, and, ladies and gentlemen, this is the most serious discrimination that exists in this world at all! What is this, please nice, for a signal for the parents of the disabled, for the disabled people in this world when we go here and say: Okay, that's all right, make everything that's disabled, go away? – This is abominable from my point of view. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and the FPÖ representatives.]] In particular, social democracy is always so against discrimination, as every supposed or genuine discrimination is made a Gschisti-Gshasti until it is no longer possible to go around. That doesn't fit all of this together: On the one hand, oversensitivity, if there is only a slight trend somewhere towards discrimination, a possible discrimination, we are excited, but there, at PID: These are only defective cells – now in the bubbling, if it doesn't fit! I think this is a double morale and a hypocrisy – with all due respect for social democracy. [[Call the SPÖ:It's not a double moral!]] Perhaps this is also something that is in the genes of social democracy. We all know the pillar saint Julius Tandler, a great social democrat. Mr Julius Tandler was a declared Eugenic, and I can quote him: “The entire ambition of eugenics can only run out at two moments: to favour the healthy () in the reproduction, to exclude the inferiors from it.” The eradication of the inferiors is the goal. – Julius Tandler, his sign Social Democratic. [[Abg. Kickl: Oh yes, after which places are still named! Medals are named after him!]] And he even said he's explicit for killing disabled newborns. [[Call the SPÖ:Deal wrong what you're talking about!]] If this thought is still alive in you, maybe you don't know it, maybe it's unconscious, I don't know, then you'll get out of it, turn it off, and deal with it! It's your goal to deal with the past. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: A little moderate in tone, that wouldn't be bad!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] For us it is quite clear that the PID does not correspond to the ethics and not the dignity of man. Many questions remain open: What right do we decide on life and death on the basis of genetic data? What right do we have to say that this or that genetic disposition, as mentioned by Mr Belakovich, is a reason not to let someone live? There are treatable genetic defects, such as hereditary breast cancer or haemophilia. These people can live well. With what right do we go here and destroy them already in the test tube? [[Abg. Musiol: Read the law!]] What do we do with the embryos? There are millions of embryos in England. No one knows what to do with these embryos. They will then be rejected, and that, please beautiful, says everything anyway: That's objectionable! And we want to introduce this to Austria now. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and FPÖ.]] In addition, there is ever greater doubt in scientific literature as to whether the IVF makes sense in the long term. The people who have been born with IVF have a much higher tendency to develop depression, identification problems et cetera. There is sufficient literature for this, and now the inventor of the IVF and Nobel Prizewinners in parts has more or less distanced themselves from it. He no longer considers his own invention and development to be absolutely optimal, at least rethinkable. We are now taking these completely unresolved questions into this law. Then, of course, there are also the medical reasons against the new law. The ova donation is not an harmless procedure, the hormone cur is straining. There are even deaths due to the hyperovulation syndrome. There is no word in the law, there are no measures in it to prevent this. It's nothing in this law. We don't even have Indian conditions in the egg donation. They have a better standard in egg donation than we do. The Third World is ahead of us here. Congratulations on this law! Even if it is formally forbidden in the law, who wants to prevent the commercialization and exploitation of women? Who wants to prevent tourism from coming to us from abroad that women donate the eggs here? Who wants to control this, please? [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Where are the registers? And: Who's gonna report this so good? The women's rightsists in particular have not said a word about this. That's obviously everybody's sausage, because my stomach belongs to me. Here you go. I am generally surprised at the low level of this debate, which has not achieved any real quality at all. We're talking about women's quotas for days, weeks, months, years, but we're talking about something like that, the really delicate basics of life, we're not even losing a word. Here and there we make a little discussion, end, ad acta – law is whipped through. I think that is extremely problematic. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I see a fundamental problem of this law also in the definition of the time when a person is a human being. From the point of view of many citizens, humanity begins with the production, i.e. with the fusion of eggs and seeds. I would therefore like to conclude by making a request for the definition of human beings: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e8142	The application is sufficiently supported and properly submitted and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e8204	Mrs Magnette has now come to speak. Steinacker. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e8227	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! High house! Estimated citizens! A child is a gift, something wonderful. Whoever believes in miracles, he believes in children. - I'll do that. I was allowed to experience the greatest happiness in my life by having two healthy children myself. Unfortunately, the fulfilment of this desire for children is also denied many people in Austria, citizens for whom we bear responsibility. You can't have children in natural ways. Today we have the medical opportunity to help these people fulfill their desire for their own children. Reproduction medicine is an impressive achievement of science. It can relieve suffering, it can make people happy parents, but it brings huge social risks. In this field of tension, we have drawn up a proposal for a novel on the reproductive medicine law, and this new legislative proposal will provide the opportunity to give many people hope, but above all legal certainty. However, at the same time as this proposal for a law, we set very, very clear limits on the requirements of reproductive medicine. The focus is always on the rights and dignity of the future human being who comes to the world. To allow new human life means to take full responsibility for the protection and dignity of the new life. In contrast to my previous speakers, I take the time, and I allow you, ladies and gentlemen, to be fully guided by essential points of this law. The starting points for this were, as we have already heard, the decisions of the Supreme Courts, the Constitutional Court, the European Court of Human Rights on the topics of artificial fertilization, pre-implantation diagnosis and egg cell donation. Our proposal for a law is well thought out, carefully balanced and follows very clear principles. We have a very strict principle of subsidiarity. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Zanger and Mr Prinz.]] This means that of several possibilities for research and treatment, only the least invasive and straining cells can be arranged initially and those that produce least-developed cells. Medically supported reproduction should continue to be permitted, as before, only in the case of the medical need or the risk of transmission of a serious disease. In this bill you will not find that this artificial fertilization may become a lifestyle method. Borrowing and social Egg Freezing continue to be prohibited. All should not continue to carry out artificial fertilization, because, in our opinion, children have the right to two parents. [[Abg. Kickl: Two parents? Why?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kitzmüller.]] According to the knowledge of the Constitutional Court, the seed donation is also to be made possible for lesbian couples. Dr. Franz, you too have read the law carefully, I know you well enough. Egg donation is generally allowed after intensive consultation, and only more of the egg cells required in a pregnancy cycle are released to fertilize, i.e. one to two. Thus, recently, fertilized ova, your greatest concern, is simply prevented. We have regulated the child's right to information on genetic parenthood. Detailed medical advice is mandatory. I now come to the subject of PID, a regulatory subject which we have adopted. A sensitive and very difficult issue. For me as a Catholic, as a mother, this is the most difficult subject in this law. [[Abg. Steinbichler: The Catholic Church!]] All those who say something else have not read exactly: The PID remains prohibited, but it is allowed in the narrowest exception. [[I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is an essential difference that we have made here: not permission, but the ban. I can now tell you the two possibilities when and under what conditions the PID is allowed at all: The first is if a woman has already had more than three attempts of in vitro fertilization, which have not been fruitless and have not worked, or if she has already had three miscarriages in advance and is likely to have caused a genetic disposition of the child. Second: We have determined that the PID should be carried out in a very close context to avoid an hereditary disease occurring after birth, which is basically untreated and so serious that the child could be sustained only under the constant use of intensive medical technology at all or suffers from severe pain. Ladies and gentlemen, that's what the law says, read it! [[Congratulations on ÖVP, SPÖ and Greens.]] It is a matter of avoiding suffering in every respect, for parents and, of course, for the child, if so foreseeable that this child is suffering. Ladies and gentlemen! Until now, this law has been negotiated with the utmost care and awareness of its responsibility. Yesterday afternoon we had our last round of negotiations. We have summarised substantial amendments to the government template in an amendment, together with the government partner and the Greens. We have the purpose of carrying out a PID, the purpose of this pre-implantation diagnosis, in the text of the law, in the front, not in the explanatory remarks or elsewhere, in the law, that is an essential difference. And we have discussed the topic of egg donation here – appealing to my colleague Franz once again. Anyone who has been in the Committee and who has been seriously concerned with it is aware of how problematic, even in the health field, can be an egg donation for a woman, and no one will make it easily, as well as not other donations, a kidney donation or the like. But we, ladies and gentlemen, have achieved something very essential: We have set rules against mediation and against commercialisation by threatening them with high penalties. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ, Greens and NEOS.]] I would like to thank the Committee's experts at this point, and they have pointed out essential things, including the point that, of course, the egg donor is also subject to a great psychological pressure. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] That is why our proposals now ensure psychological consultation for these women. Transparency in this whole subject area, in vitro production and in all the topics we are discussing today is not a matter of course. You know, that touches the innermost of a human being, and not everyone wants to tell about it that he can't have a child by natural means. But these statistics are now being required, and this transparency is then available to us to evaluate how good our law is and how secure and sovereign it supports these things that I have mentioned before. [[Congratulations on ÖVP, SPÖ and Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! On this sensitive subject of reproductive medicine, it is important for us to find an agreement which is supported by a broad majority. We must create a law here for all people in our country, for adults, but also for those who are not yet born. The proposal for a law has been drawn up, I say now, at least on the side of the EIA in a month-long process of opinion. I have received a lot of emails and letters from dedicated citizens. In addition, we have invited numerous experts not only in the Health Committee, but also in the context of our club: Physicians, theologians, geneticists, pediatricians, psychologists. We as the ÖVP have certainly not made it easy for us on this important issue. In this context, I would like to thank my colleagues in the club in particular. We have not only had long and hard discussions of challenging nature on many topics of the FMed law. [[Abg. Kickl: You fell down as always!]] We have also been very respectful of each other, and I would like to thank you for that, as well as for your contributions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] At the end of my speech, I allow myself to quote our vice chancellor and party chairman, who said on Monday this week: If you don't design, you'll be designed. . I do not want to continue to be designed in this subject by the highest courts, which give us the route of march on these issues. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: I don't think so, you'll open it!]] We have taken control of PID and egg donation and have made it politically responsible – for the best of our citizens. I will vote today with full conviction for this bill – as a woman, as a mother, and as a Catholic. [[Abg. Kitzmüller: Sad, sad, sad!]] [[Abg. Singer: Down to the confessional!]] I'm convinced that we're going a good way here. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like your consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e8387	I call Mr Kickl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e8408	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to say to the Group of the Party of European Socialists that, of course, we will vote against this law because we think that this is not so easy. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Franz]] Just as you're trying to do this, that's not how it works! [[Abg. Lopatka: This is nothing new with you, you always voted against it!]] The fact that you do not live up to your own values and your own demands, to be a supposed value-conservative party and to be on a Christian foundation, and once again have fallen down like cones, you will not be able to speak beautifully out here. You are the crashers of service when it comes to your own principles! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's exactly the point: Wherever it matters, you fall around, and then you act as if you were keeping these values high by putting your Minister of Agriculture's heart-jesu rhetoric in the mouth. That's not enough! Here and today the nail sample takes place, and you can expect nothing other than the next betrayal – this time, by the way, on the right hand of the children. That's what I'm writing to you in the master's book! Ladies and gentlemen! The Reproductive Medicine Act stands out from our, from a liberal point of view, in quite a contradiction to two very essential things: One is the dignity of the child in itself. Once again, we are abstracting from all the relationships into which such a living being enters. That's the first point you should think about. The second is the rights arising from this dignity of this child. This is a crucial point that cannot be reversed in a discussion on any means, just as it has been tried for 10 minutes now, but we are talking about the purposes – and the purposes are not discussed in this House for a long time now. They only deal with the resources, but should devote more attention to the purposes. That's what it's all about. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! The law that you – embedded in the progressive forces of the Left and the Upper Liberals; You should consider in which society You are there in the decision-making process – today we are getting on the way here, which involves a complete, very fundamental mistake: They order both, the dignity of a child and the rights of this child, which result in it, to a very different thing. [[Abg. Lopatka: That's wrong!]] They sort of put it – I really put it under quotation marks – “right to possession of a child” and you can’t derive this right from anywhere. [[Abg. Lopatka: Completely wrong!]] You will not succeed unless you do it like the Constitutional Court and treat inequalities not unevenly, but treat inequalities the same way. That's the only crutch you'll manage to get these things on the way, otherwise you won't do it! [[Abg. Lopatka: But the desire for a child you completely ignore!]] Ladies and gentlemen, what are you doing? – Even if a person chooses, of his own free will, a life plan that naturally excludes it, in principle, that it can ever result in a child of his own, as is the case with couples of equal sex – whether it fits you in your reconnaissance or not, it is now like that – even then he is given the right to a child by you. [[Abg. Lopatka: That's completely wrong!]] This is a right drawn to the hair and not an actual one, and you're up here enormously! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Don't you see that it completely distorts nature?- Oh, my God! Don't you see that?- Oh, my God! If you have little joy with the word “nature”, I am just saying in the direction of the ÖVP: Don't you see that you're trying to put the creation you're supposed to be worth? Don't you see that, or is that a vocabulary you're ashamed of in the meantime? [[Abg. Lopatka: You are a great hypocrite!]] Sometimes I suspect it's in the ÖVP. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Lopatka: You are a great hypocrite!]] That's what I'm telling you: This is an intervention into creation!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e8551	Wait a minute, please. Mr Klubobmann Lopatka, for the call “You’re a great hypocrite!” I’m giving you a call for order.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e8582	Don't you see that for this supposed right you construct somewhere in the sense of eliminating any form of possible discrimination, the actual rights of the child step with feet? - That's the point: Article 24 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the EU. They stood here a few days ago and have kept the Taferln with the inscription "Je suis Charlie" high in your alleged struggle for the values of this Europe. They are familiar with these values, which are set in there, among other things, and this is because values are not abstract, the values of the children. It says that there is a right of children to both parents. Now, Mr Lopatka, there is a fine difference between the word “both” and the word “two”. You should know that! The word “both” means completeness in the two; the word “two” is just a numerical list. In the meantime, I no longer understand why you hold on to this “two” at all and do not use “three”, “four”, “five”, “six”, “seven” or “seven” in the sense of a general popularity. That would be consistent if you were to drive it that far. But when we talk about “both, ” we talk about two in the sense of completeness! And this completeness comes from a mother who is biologically a woman, and from a father, that is a man biologically; from that comes a child or children. Whether this fits you or not: So it wants nature, so it wants creation! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I can only marvel at this popular party – on the subject of hypocrisy. I would like to hear this sentence from you, Mr Lopatka, for example in your clause: “A family belongs to a female mother, a male father and a child or children!” We haven't heard from you for a long time. We hear from you: ‘ Islam belongs to Europe.’ That's what you hear from your club. Then you'll hear about it: ‘There is no competition of inclinations.’ Sometimes I have the impression that you have entered into a competition with the left in this country and with the especially progressive: Who can frustrate even more stupidities under the name “progress ”? – And you are at the front, I can tell you that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Don't come to me with studies that's why! Don't come to me with studies, there's a study for everything! You will certainly be able to justify the child's well-being in this way, that is not the question. I believe – towards the Greens – that also Mr Cohn-Bendit can rely on studies that his dealing with early childhood sexuality has probably been an incredible liberation for his victims. Don't talk about changing times, because changed times can only differ by the fact that the contents differ! The times are not the ones that change the content. These are people like you who believe that they have to be with us in progress, think spiritually at the left and then make themselves here and say: “I am a good Catholic.” I don't know if the Cardinal approves of what we sometimes miss when it comes to the clarity of his words. [[Abg. Jewellery beater: You don't have to evaluate that!]] I'm interested in how you'll see that. You make a big mistake: They confuse freedom with arbitrariness. Freedom, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, that is self-determination! A little less cleverly formulated, it's self-limitation – you'll probably be back in the same direction – and this self-limitation is always a moral responsibility when acting. You're not coming out! What you think is arbitrary: Everyone does what he wants, and then he tries to find some reasons to be able to speak. [[Abg. Lopatka: Completely wrong!]] Don't go to the left on the glue! And take to heart the words of the Cardinal: Decisive in dealing with freedom is that we do not do everything we can. [[Abg. Lopatka: You too!]] [[Abg. Lopatka:... take the Cardinal seriously!]] – This is the crucial point. Letter You're in your Christian book!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e8688	Mr Kickl, I give you a call for an order for the accusation of "tincts". Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Musiol. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e8724	Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would now like to come back to the question of the unsolicited consultation of Mr Kickl for the ÖVP. My colleague, Mr Steinacker, has shown that on this issue, which does not leave anyone cold – I will give you the right, but that is also the only one where I am right in this matter – one can also speak objectively, even if one has to answer a few questions for himself. “No one lets cold” is true, but “no one lets cold” does not mean simply that you have a problem with it. Personally, we Greens are very happy today! I assume that many here in the hall are happy today, and many outside this hall are happy. Why are we happy? – Because today a next step has been taken to anchor life realities of families, life realities of persons also by law! It is now a fact that your image of family, marriage and children is an outdated one and no longer corresponds to the realities of many, many Austrians. [[Abg. Kickl: How did you get that?]] If you ask me where I got it [[Congratulation with greens and SPÖ]] I just need to go on the street and look around. There are just couples who are not married and have children. There are single women or men rearing children. [[Abg. Kickl: There are other things you haven't picked up yet! They're there too!]] There are lesbian couples there, there are homosexual couples there who have children from pre-relations or have just nursing children. This very situation exists, and it cannot be that Austrian laws are against this situation! Against this background it was quite clear that the Constitutional Court and the European Court of Justice were proposing a bar. [[Abg. Kickl: Kneefall in front of the empirical!]] I would also like to congratulate Mr Graupner once again, and also all those who have been working here for many years. But it is sad that you and many other energy and money have to invest in order to achieve social realities here! The next topic is adoption. Here again, too, we have needed the Constitutional Court to make it clear what is right and so that it is only then implemented by Parliament and by politics. [[Abg. Kickl: This is just a division of work!]] [[Abg. Kickl: The same program, made only part of work!]] I wish myself something else here. That's what Klubobmann Schieder mentioned. I also see a wormhead drop, which I don't want to hide. I would have liked – and asked for this in committee too – that not only couples but also single people should have the opportunity to use reproductive medicine, because that also corresponds, as has already been said, to the realities of life. Klubobmann In the past, a little misunderstanding was made on the part of the arbitrators because he pretended that we had introduced it. No, unfortunately, we don't have that, and it's actually not clear why not. But there too we may need judicial judgments to look up here. I know that the SPÖ was quite open; there was no consensus, no majority. Then we have to keep fighting for it. But it's a good day for me anyway. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Believe me, we didn't make it easy either. You know, we have made many requests in committee. We negotiated yesterday, and the government parties have already incorporated between the Committee and our negotiations some of what we have proposed, what the experts have said, what the discussion has brought into the committee, into the proposed amendment and resolution. We moved on a little further yesterday and achieved even more. What was that? – In concrete terms, it was a question of the rights of the child, i.e.: How can the child, who – in any way – has been created, whether by egg donation, by donation, by both, also receive information about who the physical parents are, who are the donors? And: How does this information come about? Does it have to collapse all the institutes, or do we go the way that we see that we are centrally pooling this information? In order to be able to do the same as the children adopted, just as is the case in the care sector, one turns to an authority and says: I really like to know who my parents are. This central register is a motion for a resolution. It's being checked by the Ministries, and I'm good things that'll come. It also raises the question: Is 14 really the border where children deal with their identity? – There are also children who want to know before. Ideally, children grow up with the knowledge of how they were produced. This is, as it were, the common, ruling teaching, the developmental psychological standard. So the question was: You can't do it before the 14th century. You're going to live? Here, too, a motion for a resolution sets out to examine the conditions under which children can be given information about their origin, their physical parents, about the donors at a time when they wish to do so. The second part, which has already been mentioned today, is the question of consultation. There is already a psychological consultation, which is done in the IVF-funded interventions. But it was important to us that there is also a clear question here, which is to be discussed. The main issue here is that parents or potential parents are being informed about what is important for the development, for identity development, for the bond development of their children, and that it is important for the children that they know from the beginning how they have developed, and that this does not have to be a taboo. We discussed it yesterday in the negotiations: It's still a taboo. There are a lot more people in your area than you think about IVF children. They just don't say it because it still bears the stamp of the unnatural who makes it impossible. That's where you make sure it's got this stamp! It's normality outside, it's normality for many parents who have an unfulfilled child's desire. Against this background, we must also ensure that it is detabulated here. However, the information is also important for the donors, especially for the egg donors – that has already been mentioned by Col. Steinacker – in order to be precisely informed about these medical consequences. I must say one thing, Mrs Belakovich-Jenewein: You lead here to an uncertainty by spreading falsehoods! Or also Mr Franz. You polemize, you say here things that are not at all true, in relation to the ova donation. [[Abg. Kickl:... probably both more medical background than you!]] You know very well that there is a clear rule in the law that only three children may be produced from the egg cell or from the seed of a donor. This therefore automatically manages a limit. - That's the part. The other part, however, is that we are very likely to act here for self-responsibilities and say: People should be informed about the consequences, but it is still in the private, personal decision-making area whether or not these consequences are addressed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein]] Like the drug studies you've been involved in as a student. [[Congratulations on Greens, SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] That's exactly the problem. We also discussed very intensively in our club: There was also much to discuss with us, much has been questioned, especially the pre-implantation diagnosis. But there, my colleague Steinacker said everything to say: It is further prohibited and only possible under very narrow limits. You know that very well. By spreading falsehoods here and by drawing pictures here that have nothing to do with this law, you only lead to an uncertainty and not to a differentiated discussion. [[Congratulations on Greens, SPÖ and ÖVP.]] We have been discussing for a long time and have decided to agree. We have no force on our part, so all our colleagues have decided to do so, just as I hope that is the case in all the other political groups. [[Abg. Kickl: All the more sad!]] A colleague who wanted to speak today but unfortunately cannot speak because of illness has decided not to agree. This is Mr Jarmer, who, in her speech, clearly wanted to introduce her perspective. I can only say so much: It says that pre-implantation diagnostics are possible within the framework, but it is, of course, an issue for the disabled associations that emotionalizes. That would have been the reason why she would not have agreed. But what she wanted to point out in her speech was that, in addition to this discussion, it is all the more important to look at the situation of parents with disabled children and to ensure the corresponding support here. This will also be necessary, regardless of this discussion. I can now make the following joint request: [[Quoted print version removed]] If I may conclude with a wish, then it is the desire of the government parties to the government that we need not, for the further family policy and social policy issues, the highest court lawyers, who are not committed to the creation of laws that really correspond to the realities of life, but that we, as legislators, assume our responsibility here and do so, even without getting over from the Constitutional Court. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e8913	The application is sufficiently supported and properly submitted and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e8987	Mrs Dr Belakovich-Jenewein has made an actual correction. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e9011	Mr President. Mrs Musiol has said here that I would have said the untruth, also with regard to the egg donation. That's wrong. Mrs Musiol! I said: There are no restrictions in the law, any woman can actually between 18 and 30. She wants to donate eggs as often as she lives. That corresponds to the facts. [[Abg. Musiol: Three children!]] The fact that three children are made out of it or not, it is at some point – theoretically, no children can arise from the ovaries at all, because it takes 30 to 50 donor eggs to get pregnant at all.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e9046	Mrs Kitzmüller has now been mentioned. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e9069	Mr President. Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! With today's government paper, those responsible show what is important to them in this society: not the family, not the child's well-being, not the basic values and the preservation of identity! No one here questions the further consequences of the child concerned. Do you want it to be said that they were frozen ten years later until they became a human being, a living person? – Ladies and gentlemen, this is a disaster! [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] No, it is crucial here to follow the general mainstream, put egoism first and put personal desires first and only. What is important here is the political correctness that is to be preserved, but nothing else. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] When we look at UN children's rights, it says: The child has a right to father and mother. - Where is the father and the mother? When we look at new forms to fill out the midwives, there is: the sex of the mother, the sex of the father. What's that supposed to be? Is there a male mother? - Well, that's what I want to see! They confuse the reality of life here, that there are very likely couples who are of equal sex and can live together, who are to live together and are also to be happy together, and the biological reality that two men or two women cannot have children biologically. You will not be able to change that by this law, because you cannot change biology by law. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stroll.]] - That's one thing. Look Now get closer to the text of the law! With what is said here, the basic right of the child to father and mother, as has already been said, is despised. Organic parents are no longer worth anything in this context, they are arbitraryly interchangeable and, at any rate, to define or not. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] On the contrary, it will be possible to buy everything under this law in this matter. You can buy the right child, the right properties, the right sex and all these things. [[Intervocations with SPÖ and Greens.]] Here is to be planned, which is not planned! Who controls what actually happens to the ovaries if abuse is driven or not? Where is it written that this is verifiable? – We heard years ago too, it is certainly not open the door for the adoption of same-sex couples. What do we have now? – 2009 we warned about it. The ÖVP Minister, then Beatrix Karl, said: No, it will never be like that in life! – And where are we now? Just where we warned women at that time came completely under the wheels and can be exploited here! [[Abg. Wöginger: That was the Constitutional Court!]] There is nothing about it from green and red, but also about the rights of women. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Health damage and adverse side effects in women, I say now, in donors, in recipients and in children – it is also not spoken of. One takes the identity and the roots of man. This mixed culture of sperm donation, egg donation, actual parents, same-sex parents or non-sex parents – all of this is not taken into account, and you don't think about it. The PID, this pre-implantation diagnosis, is also an instrument of selection and discrimination. I'm going to be able to admit that this is going to be the case. It is being discriminated against because it is also supposed to be an access restriction on the State's admission, which is practically impracticable. And this amendment, this Placebo amendment by the government parties, ladies and gentlemen, does not change it either. Who then decides which egg is worth living and which is not? Who do you think this decision is? And who decides what fertilized egglets are disposed of, really disposed of, and which are not? Children become a product of the reproductive industry. We are clearly going too far with this law. And as a concerned citizen said in a letter: Be the beginnings! With this law, a child becomes a commodity. It is no more than assumed what it is as a gift and a miracle of nature. You, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, want to play God here and decide who is worth living and who is not. And for that you will never get our approval in life.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e9158	Mr Scherak. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e9179	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! I think it is positive that some manage to discuss this objectively. I think Mrs Belakovich-Jenewein has, essentially, expressed her concern very objectively. Why Mr Kickl is working on the ÖVP in this way, that is his problem, that he is not aware of. If I do not understand, and I am personally disappointed, Mr Franz. To blame social democracy, and now I don't need to defend social democracy in principle, but it was so under the belt line that it really isn't comprehensible. [[It was in favour of NEOS and SPÖ, as well as MEPs of the Greens.]] Essentially, we should let the story of Revue happen here again. Once again, we have come from the highest court decisions, because committed people, and I too am pleased that Mr. Dr. Graupner has fought that far, up to the highest courts. The highest courts, in this case explicitly of the Constitutional Court, but also of the European Court of Human Rights, have decided clearly things in many areas, because, as legislators, we have obviously passed laws, time and again passed laws that lead to inequality, unfair treatment. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] In this case, we are also dealing with laws that are very, very old, which we may simply have had to work for a long time. If Mr Klubobmann says that he also regrets the fact that this should always lead to the highest courts and perhaps change that, then it is perfectly right. I can also give you the instructions for action: to put the free mandate more in the foreground, perhaps to create non-coalition spaces, because I am clear that this does not work because the coalition partners simply do not agree in this area. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. El Habbassi.]] The fact is that First, the Constitutional Court found that the ban on seed donation in lesbian couples is not in order and must be repealed. The second is that the European Court of Human Rights has, in a decision against Austria, found that the prohibition of ova donation and the prohibition of seed donation to the IVF is still in the discretion of the It is up to us, of course, that new developments are also taking place here, and we should also give careful thought to whether these developments do not make a ban seem more than sensible. The essential point: We once have the seed donation at the IVF. We'll change that now. The donation of seeds from third parties will now be allowed. Personally, I have never been able to understand why, in principle, one allows a seed donation, only in the event of in vitro fertilization. That's the first point. The second thing is the egg donation. – Yes, Mrs Belakovich-Jenewein, there are dangers, there must be caution. That is why we have also stated that appropriate advice and information must be given. An essential aspect, however, is also what is not understandable. It was so until now that if a couple couldn't have children, because the man was not able to testify, it had the opportunity to help a third party. If the reason why the child wish could not be realized was that the female egg was not functional, however, no third party, in which case no third party, could be taken to the aid. This is something that is not comprehensible, which I think is an inconceivable differentiation. The next point we decide here today is the pre-implantation diagnosis. This is also very exciting, because we have long allowed prenatal diagnostics in Austria and it is so that abortion is punishable in the event of severe diseases due to the embryopathic indication. This affects very often women who are pregnant, who insist that the children have a serious illness and may not be viable. They may be born dead. On the other hand, precisely those women who want to have an examination of these severe hereditary diseases due to these severe hereditary diseases in the context of in vitro fertilization are not allowed to do so. In my opinion, this is a massive contradiction, because this means that – we have already heard it – a pregnancy is being forced to test. Another factor is that this is allowed in other European countries. You just have to think about how this is happening in Austria. So the doctor essentially says: Well, we're going to try a pregnancy or, the other way – and that's what doctors say – you're going to go abroad in Europe. I do not wish for this medical tourism, especially because of that, of course, it favours those who have the appropriate financial resources to do so. This leads to a two-class medicine, and it is absolutely not justified. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and MEPs of the Greens.]] Pre-implantation diagnostics – colleague Steinacker has also done this very clearly and objectively – remains prohibited. However, it is permitted under very strict regulation. This is strictly regulated, and it makes sense for it to be allowed in this context. In addition, it is also true that the European Court of Human Rights has established in proceedings against Italy that the maintenance of a general ban on pre-implantation diagnostics is not possible in this context. Since we have a similar legal situation in Austria, we should only have waited until there is again a committed lawyer who goes against it. Perhaps one last aspect of the matter: Yes, we have had a very short assessment period. I'm very sorry. There are other European countries that have done this better. In particular, Germany has been discussing for almost two years, because it is a very difficult issue. And, of course, the assessment period has also passed so quickly with us, because the legislator has not become active in good time. – Mr Klubobmann Arbitrators are now again present. – We have to act faster, because then things like this do not happen to us anymore, so that we have to get to a conclusion so quickly. We should have had a more comprehensive parliamentary discourse. The social discourse has been running for years, no question. However, if we see how the Germans have managed to discuss with experts for a long time, we should take this as an example. And finally, The Minister of Justice has said in the Committee that there is already a need for a general ban to be very, very strong arguments. I have already told you in committee that I can only agree with you. I think this is also a very correct choice of words in the context, and therefore I am very glad that we will decide on this today.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e9269	Mr Wolfgang Brandstetter spoke on behalf of the Federal Minister. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e9294	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Dear visitors from Lower Austria! As already mentioned, and in so far as I can take a relatively short look, this necessary reform has been a recognition of the Constitutional Court of December 2013. In this Constitutional Court of Justice, it was stated that lesbian couples also need to open up the possibility of using the medically supported reproduction. In order to achieve this, the Constitutional Court raised essential parts of the reproductive medicine law with effect from 1. ==References== It's going to be implemented. Mrs Belakovich-Jenewein! In this context, you have said that if I have written it properly, the responsibility would be put on the courts. That's why we can't do it. With a correct understanding of the rule of law, the highest judicial decisions must be implemented without If and But; there can be no debate on it at all. - Yes, it is. It has also been mentioned that Mr Graupner has recently asserted himself in another issue of adoption at the Supreme Court. He's gotten right. This too is easy to implement. In order to achieve this in this case, the Constitutional Court lifted substantial parts of the law, and this, of course, ultimately brought in regulatory gaps. And these regulatory gaps – and we have them right now – mean that very decisive restrictions of this law have been removed, not least the central limiting principle of subsidiarity to medically assisted reproduction. That's why it was important and also important to me, these have been since 1. To close the existing regulatory gap and to eliminate the legal uncertainty, as quickly as possible, so that we can only have this unsatisfactory state as short as possible. This is simply necessary and useful, and this, ladies and gentlemen, was and is the only reason for the time pressure that has often been criticized here. However, I would like to point out with all my understanding of the rapid pace of criticism that the essential basic questions of reproductive medicine have been discussed intensively for years and that the possible answers have long been on the table. We have also been happy to take up some changes in our draft, and my knowledge has until yesterday also been worked on these drafts at the parliamentary level, and much of what has come of criticism and encouragement has been examined, sharpened and implemented. For me, this is a very nice example of constructive parliamentaryism. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Mrs Steinacker, in particular, has already presented the essential content in such a way that nothing has to be added to it. I would just like to say once again: This reform is due in essential respects to the implementation of fundamental, constitutional requirements, and for me as Minister of Justice, it is not only this highest judicial jurisdiction, but also the otherwise existing legal situation, which I naturally have to respect and take into account, in particular with regard to abortion. Not only the opening of medically supported reproduction for lesbian couples is now due to a decision of a highest court. The authorisation of in vitro fertilisation with seed donation and the opening of egg cell donation shall also be made with a view to the logical consequences of a judgment of the European Court of Human Rights. This is simply so if you understand this highly judicial jurisdiction, and you can't dispute it. The purpose of this draft law is to take account of current developments, but also of the legitimate interests of the parties concerned. In our draft, we have linked the approval of in vitro fertilization with sperm donation and egg cell donation to protect women to strict conditions. For example, only the method may be chosen by the doctor who is associated with the least health consequences for the persons involved. The doctor is required to provide comprehensive advice. And it was also a particular concern to limit the number of excess embryos to what is absolutely necessary. On this point, there is indeed progress in this draft in relation to the previous legal situation. And with regard to pre-implantation diagnostics in Austria, it should be noted that it remains fundamentally prohibited. However, authorisation under certain very strict conditions was also necessary due to a decision of the European Court of Human Rights. In this respect, the European Court of Human Rights has specifically condemned Italy for disproportionate intervention in the right to respect for private and family life. The factually unwarranted objection to the prohibition of pre-implantation diagnostics on prenatal diagnostics has been criticised – and that is already remarkable. And this imbalance between the protection of the embryo in vitro and in vivo needs to be balanced in order to save women and couples with child requirements the burden of pregnancy on sample in the future. In an overall view, the benefits of this limited authorisation of pre-implantation diagnostics clearly outweigh the problems associated with such investigations under strict conditions. In this context, I should like to remind you that these restrictions on access to the existing possibilities of medically assisted reproduction are, of course, also interventions in the fundamental legal environment of those concerned, who are couples with children's desires. In order for such bans not to contradict the liberal principle of our Constitution, it is also necessary to provide specific justification. In this context, you still allow me a few basic comments, which I do not wish to mention in the end, taking into account what has already been said here. As I said, from my point of view, from the point of view of the judicial body there are two parameters, two requirements: the highest judicial jurisdiction on the one hand and the existing legal situation, in particular with regard to abortion on the other. I understand, of course, that if we did not make the regulation the way we have proposed it would lead to rejections and contradictions. It is not possible to prohibit what is now permitted in the context of prenatal diagnostics at the pregnant child under current legal conditions, as part of the pre-implantation diagnosis, in the test tube. That would be an intolerable contradiction. Of course, I also understand that in the discussion that I have really conducted intensively with all parties involved, it has always been, in particular in the Catholic Church, that the wounds of the abortion discussion break out 40 years ago. However, this does not change anything about the specific problem to be settled here. And as far as the egg donation is concerned, which we finally allow in consequence of the highest judicial jurisdiction, I do not share the concerns expressed here at all. Mrs Belakovich-Jenewein, I think, has overlooked a point, although I have mentioned it in the Committee on Health. You must not forget – and you are right – that the ova donation from the donor is not a cure treatment. This is a non-profit intervention, so it needs justification. The doctor needs justification for this, and he can only get it, for example, as well as for a kidney donation among the living, through a special regulation in the criminal code, and that is the consent of the injured person. And this is only allowed after the strict Judicature if there are no commercial interests. In this way, the restrictions we are making also serve to clarify them. However, the main restriction is this regulation in the Criminal Code, and it continues to apply so that I really cannot share the concerns raised. There will be no commercialized ova donation. And when often it's said: Yes, we have the fear that this will happen!, I can only say one thing: There have also always been the arguments that there is a growing trade with organs somewhere in the world. May be, yes, but that's why we want to restrict organ donation in Austria, although we were able to prevent it very deliberately and consciously with our legal regulations, that would be the wrong way, I must say. And we will also be able here to avoid any pure commercialization absolutely. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] As far as the ova donation is concerned, which will remain an egg donation according to this draft and according to our legal system and the existing regulations that we already have, I have to comment briefly on a comment made by Mr Marcus Franz, who has hurt me; I have to say so. In the context of this, you have formulated to speak, Mr Deputies, of herb and beet parenthood, it hurts you. If you really know what the people concerned actually have to do with problems, concerns and desires, and especially if you have experience such as I have with family problems, with many, many cases that I have really been confronted with, so if you know all of this from practice, if you understand that, then you can only say one thing, and I tell you that, Mr. Dr. Franz: In the interests of child welfare, it is certainly important that there is a stable social parenthood. Social parenthood is more important for the child's well-being than the biological. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ, Greens and NEOS.]] Finally, of course, it remains – and I agree – that this is a subject that has already been said to leave no one cold. That's a good thing. It is a difficult, even ethically difficult question, which you can and should be able to do in general within the framework of medical possibilities. From my waiting point of view, it is quite clear that, as has already been mentioned, I have to recognise a very special social damage to behaviour in order to prohibit something. I do not see that in this context, and we have discussed this long and intensively, in a very high-class discussion; I really have to say that, and I am grateful for that. I also discussed intensively with representatives of the Catholic Church, also as a Catholic, also with the highest Catholic dignitaries. And since he has already been called by Mr Kickl our Cardinal, I have also had a very detailed discussion with him. Yes, that was borne by both sides by the understanding of the relevant point of view. To use a very beautiful word by Erich Fried: Our views have split up as friends. Yeah, that's right, but I'd like to make one clear: Justice policy can only be a consensus-oriented policy. It has tradition in Austria and especially in the judicial committee. That's what I feel obliged to do. My job is to ensure legal certainty. My task is to propose laws based on the greatest possible social consensus. And this has been achieved in an extremely constructive way together with the colleague Oberhauser. I'm grateful to her for that too. [[Abg. Pilz: That was a Jandl quote!]] – Was it a Jandl quote? Sorry! But the quote is at least nice and appropriate to the subject. Thank you. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I think this is the first time that Mr Pilz can really correct someone here. It was granted to him. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] But you see, dear colleague Pilz – you will like it – I read both, so I can also confuse them. [[Abg. Pilz: You get a third book from me!]] - Good. On the subject of medical-assisted reproduction in general: You know, I don't understand an argument that came out of some speakers. I do not understand that one wants to use possible, extremely exaggerated problems that could arise in the medically assisted reproduction as an argument to solve the problem best by not allowing the child to be born at all. Whether the child is revealed and the animation target is reached- Oh, my God! I don't understand that at best. Family is where children are. This law serves medical-assisted reproduction. It serves the fulfillment of the child wish if it exists. That's something positive. You can't lose sight of that. This is a little lost in the discussion, and that is why I want to get it back. The basic idea of this law is to help those who have a child's desire and who do not have medical support so that there are children. [[Congratulations on ÖVP, SPÖ and Greens.]] That there are children, that, please, serves the child's well-being. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e9391	The next item is the speech by Mr Spindelberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e9412	Mr Federal Minister, thank you for these open words. They have shown that it has succeeded in presenting a draft that is ethically high on the one hand, but on the other hand also takes into account the more legitimate wishes of childrenless families and couples, as well as the same-sex couples for a medically supported reproduction. When some speakers talk about the fact that we didn't realize the reality, I say: The very opposite is the case, because this draft law reflects social reality. Let's not do that! Let us not frighten people that only heterosexual, perhaps married couples would be better parents! In order to clarify some of the points of the present law, I would like to make an amendment which I am briefly presenting in its broad outlines and which clearly shows that pre-implantation diagnostics are in principle still prohibited. This must only be done if, for example, children's desire remains a failure despite at least three miscarriages or dead births. Within the framework of this pre-implantation diagnosis, only those studies that are absolutely necessary in order to avoid these miscarriages or dead births in the future may be carried out. That is why, Mr Franz, it is not an objection to me if, in such a case, only genetically sound embryos are used in the future, because, in advance, the laboratory tests have shown that severe hereditary diseases are likely to occur. To clarify: For the purposes of this draft, hereditary disease must be understood as having: Survival would only be ensured by the use of state-of-the-art medical technology, for example, because the child would have severe brain damage or would suffer from ineffective pain. That is why I consider the often made in this context – and I deliberately claim so – stupid statements that only more designer babies will be produced in the future, only because of the fact that lead-nursing is still forbidden. In addition, this is also reflected in the proposed amendment, any advertising for the transmission or mediation of seeds, ova or developmentable cells is prohibited. For me personally, it is also surprising that a lot of representatives from the clerical field have been involved in this discussion. They can certainly not bring personal experience with family policy, at least officially. They also cannot imagine what it means to bear and raise disabled children. I therefore think that this decision should not be easy for the parents anyway. With this very, very limited use of pre-implantation diagnostics, we reduce unnecessary suffering of a once again miscarriage and death. On the contrary, Mr Franz, we are preventing this tourism abroad, because we are making it possible for the treatments to be carried out domestically as well.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e9463	In the meantime, the amendment tabled by Mr Spindelberger in his broad outlines was distributed in the hall. It is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e9653	Mr Rasinger is next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e9674	Mr President. Dear Minister and Minister! High house! Unfortunately, the honourable Member is missing Kickl. I ran extra to my car now and took a valium out of the emergency apotheke. After all, he was so excited that I felt called as a doctor. But he showed me that this cry, which alerted me as a doctor, was actually just a show for him. 'Cause he's not here anymore. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Very funny! He asked the law doctor!]] – As far as its seriousness on this issue is concerned. But I'd like to be willing to give him the Valium. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to highlight this from two points of view. First of all, as a Member of Parliament: Our partyobmann Mitterlehner has already asked if it is really necessary that we always follow high court decisions. We want to design, we don't want to be designed. The European Court of Human Rights will certainly be given a judgment which is positive about PID shortly, if this is filed. The Constitutional Court has already given us a deadline, and the Bioethics Commission has been working intensively on it for ten years. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Why not Parliament? Which party has failed?]] It's interesting, I was at a hearing, but there were many who didn't perform very loud today – even you! – and there it was clearly stated that even the churches do not agree on when life begins. The Catholic Church says when egg and sperm merge, it's life. Others say it's 72 days. I would like to make my second comment as a doctor. We're not talking about finished children here. We're talking about an early embryo stage of the eight cell stage. That's three days after the egg and the sperm cell are connected. We're talking about examining one of these eight cells. For what purpose? – In order to prevent a miscarriage or death to prevent a severe hereditary disease that causes either severe pain or is not calamitable or causes the child to be kept alive only in medical and technical terms. So it's not about the sex or the color of the hair and so on. How many people would that affect in Austria? – According to German experiences, it would be 20 to a maximum of 25. It is already a matter of consideration whether I say first to a family that already has a seriously handicapped child due to a genetic illness: You're not allowed to investigate anything at the eight-cell stage, so on the third day. But later I say: You are allowed to undergo a dangerous investigation in the sixth to eighth weeks, namely the point of fruit water, or: You're even allowed to drive off! So I think that's already a difference in appreciation. It's already a cynicism, as I think, when people write to me who are in front of the diamond wedding and are actually not affected. You have to see that quite clearly. Our law is stricter, much stricter than the German law. There it was called a star hour of parliamentarism. I come to the conclusion: As a doctor, I feel very strongly committed to the value of life. I can say: This law takes very much account of the beginning of a life, because we want to prevent something worse. We will also soon discuss the end of life in this House. I also wish for such an intense debate when it comes to killing on request.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e9733	The next item is Mrs Dr. Mückstein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e9754	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Spectators! The amendment of the Reproductive Medicine Act is an achievement for equality of gender and reflects from our point of view very pleased that society is now ready to open up to new and diverse forms of partnerships and family constellations. This is a reality of life. I am also pleased that Minister Brandstetter referred to the question of social parenthood. What does that mean? – It is much more important whether a reference person is able to offer a good relationship quality and make a good relationship offer than the gender of the referee. Children react to this. When a good relationship offer is available, children also develop well. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Worm.]] Nevertheless, I may feel a little less euphoric about the reproductive medicine law than my colleague Daniela Musiol. I also had problems in agreeing to the law because initially I lacked essential child welfare aspects. That is why I am very glad that during the negotiations we have succeeded in negotiating the aspects of child welfare, which are very important to me, into the law, or that at least it has succeeded in anchoring some essential aspects as a statement of intent in the joint motion for a resolution. It's clear: Childish desire is a personal-individual as well as social-political-social issue. The fulfillment of the child’s desire is an existential question. I have advised many couples who have suffered extremely from unfulfilled childhood desires, and reproductive medicine is able to alleviate this suffering. However, as a motive for my opinion, reproductive medicine must not only be concerned with the fulfillment of this child’s desire, and – I would also like to mention one aspect that has not yet been discussed – also the associated business performance must not be at the centre of the event or must be kept in restricted by certain measures. The quality of life of such children and their families must also be observed. In an ethically responsible discussion of the objectives of reproductive medicine, both aspects must be brought together in a balanced relationship. In addition to fulfilling the child’s desire, it is the child’s right to the best possible health and the child’s right to know about his identity, which we need to pay attention to here. Why do we also have to think of the children of reproductive medicine? – Modern reproductive medicine has not only brought children’s desires, it has also brought high risks that are very inadequately documented and researched. In any event, medical technology in this area is undisputed that leads to multiple pregnancies, premature births and malformations in children. It is assumed that no less than 20 percent of children who have been conceived with the help of reproductive medicine suffer from developmental impairments and disabilities, because there has been conspicuousness during pregnancy or birth. That is, I think, a reason to promote independent research. Children have a right to know about their identity. The bonding and adoption research is known to have a strong influence on the bonding, bonding development, identity development and self-esteem, as well as on self-esteem. For many years, it has therefore been considered in the field of youth welfare, in other words, where nursing children and adoption children are cared for, as a standard for children to know about their biological parents and, as far as possible, to have contact with them. Children with foreign genetic parents now have a right to information from the 14th century onwards. Year of life. The discussion with one's own origin arises from a developmental psychological point of view, however, much earlier, and this should then be followed. We have therefore committed ourselves to the fact that children can receive this information even earlier. They're supposed to know where they came from. The joint motion for a resolution therefore provides for an examination of whether and how children can get information about their genetic parents through a central register of ova and sperm donation. The children's smilers must also be informed of all these aspects by their doctors. We would have liked the psychological and psychotherapist advice to become a legal claim for parents and that it is above all sufficiently financially secured so that there are no uncertainties and parents may not be able to use this advice for financial reasons. In my opinion, a responsible discussion of the possibilities of reproductive medicine, but also of the limits and business interests of reproductive medicine requires an external evaluation. Children's desire has also become a lucrative commodity, and that's why it's allowed to be ethical Do not expect to face these risks from reproductive medicine itself. Reproduction medicine must be asked from the outside, and it must ask itself whether its resources are always proficient and whether they are used responsibly. The reproductive medicine must take into account an evaluation that not only covers pregnancy rates, but also the pregnancy and birth procedures, i.e. the qualitative baby-take home rate, and shows how the children and the parents are doing after reproductive interventions. Our motion for a resolution therefore provides that within two years there should be a test result as to how this ethical claim can be fulfilled in the interest of children. The law, from my point of view, is only a first step towards the interest of children, but a first, good step.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e9835	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Meinl-Risinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e9857	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kickl is not here now. I would like to take the floor for the EIA. I have to say, making yourself up here and saying you've made it easy, so I think that's quite inappropriate. I think that in the case of hardly any matter, there have been so many internal discussions – you could understand that in the media – not only in the ÖVP, but in all political groups. Then to say here, you make it easy, I think that is very, very cheap. [[Congratulation with NEOS and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: The ÖVP has already made it easy!]] To a large extent, this draft law restores a human rights-compliant legal system. This sounds very technical now, there is also a less technical aspect, and this concerns pre-implantation diagnostics. This – this is my conviction and also an experience that I have made in my immediate circle of acquaintances – is actually able to prevent great suffering. The developments in the medical and technical field are highly dynamic, and I think it is essential that we here as legislators of this dynamic, not watching these developments, but, especially if there is such a high dynamic, make rules that clarify where we are doing something for good reasons – because it is balanced because it is well thought out – allowing and where we set clear limits. I believe that this draft law creates a good balance in a very sensitive area. What I think is very good about the motion for a resolution and the amendments that have been tabled today and which we also, of course, support, is that this whole area is protected from commercialisation. This is an essential concern, and I believe and am convinced that it will succeed. The proper handling of this highly sensitive topic is very important to NEOS. I would also like to say that we have deep respect for the different views that are also worldlyly based. It was simply too short to give other opinions for worldly reasons. But I also believe that we can rightly say: There is a lot of experience from abroad in Europe. It is essential to access them. What I have missed a little in the debate so far is that this area is not only sensitive for worldly reasons – and I respect it – but especially in Austria, for historical reasons, this debate is a very sensitive one. I just want to mention that. The discussion time was certainly too short. I wish I had. There are many aspects that could not be taken into account, which I would have liked to have a deep discussion. But I also believe that it is a good solution. We still lacked one aspect, and that is – because we think there will be scope for interpretation – the explicit anchoring of the child's well-being. I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] And one last aspect in this context, on the request of the Stronach team: When life begins, it is also the subject of a scientific and worldly debate. I have already said that we have deep respect for the different positions, but to put that into a law now, to order law, is totally missing in my opinion.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e9924	Mrs Mag. The amendment tabled by Meinl-Reisinger is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e9976	Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e9997	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Estimated Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! I think that this legislative decision, which we have been discussing for a very long time, has not made it easy for any of us here in Parliament. I have also been able to follow this up in the debate in the Committee, and I have seen, above all, in the debate in the Committee, in the hearing that there is not the right opinion on this issue, because there are many points of view, including religious, ethical views. That is why I think that some of the speeches of this morning would have been absolutely unnecessary. From my point of view, ladies and gentlemen, this decision is an important decision that reflects the social developments and, above all, the medical progress that has been addressed today. Above all, it is a decision that will lead to the reality of a modern reproductive law in Austria. We welcome this law on the part of the SPÖ. We are very pleased that it will be possible for even gender couples to meet their children’s wishes through medically supported reproduction. From the point of view of SPÖ, it is a good law that we will decide today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We also insist that the possibility of ova donation should now remove inequality between men and women, namely with regard to the donation of sperm and egg cells. I am also convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that it is also an important decision, because it is not in our competence, if I may so say, to prescribe people how they have a family to live. Everyone/anyone can live family the way they do and he wants it. We politicians can The Commission's proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations Today, I think, a good decision will be made. In addition, it is an important decision for me, because it makes it possible for couples who have not been able to meet their wishes for a child so far. I think none of us who has children themselves, if he wants to, can understand how difficult this burden for a relationship is, whether heterosexual or homosexual, if one cannot have children. Today's law enables us to comply with this wish for children. That's why, I think, it's an excellent law. But I, ladies and gentlemen, have, of course, taken seriously the concerns of the citizens. Of course, I have read many emails, and as an disabled speaker at SPÖ, I have specifically dealt with the pre-implantation diagnosis. It has already been mentioned today that pre-implantation diagnostics in Austria will be banned in the future and can only be applied in exceptional cases. I think it might be possible to concern the organisations of disabled people, disabled people themselves or parents of disabled people who are being selected here. It will be taken into account exactly where the PID may be used. That's why I don't think that designer babies can be created or that you want to sort out worthless and valuable life. For me, it is actually not that way, and I hope that in the course of the discussion disabled people could be taken a little of this fear. I would like to join my colleague, Mr Jarmer, even though she does not speak herself today: I too believe that we must work with all our strength to ensure that parents who have disabilities and raise them simply get all the support they need; for I know from many conversations with parents of disabled children that they are particularly difficult. I would like to add one aspect: I also know that many mothers, many women stay alone with the disabled child at some point, because men often can't carry these streets – don't be evil for me now, but it's really that way. That is why I think it is important that we make every effort to support children with disabilities and parents with disabilities as much as possible. I am convinced that this is a law with an eye, a law that corresponds to medical progress, takes into account social changes and is, above all, implemented with great responsibility.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e10073	Mrs Schittenhelm's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e10095	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It's right, we didn't make it easy in the ÖVP Group. I am very, very grateful to our clubman Reinhold Lopatka that we had the widest discussion rounds, that we have discussed many if and for hours and with every discussion contribution. More knowledge could be achieved. This was important, because it is of course an extremely delicate subject which is sensitive, a subject which is a very difficult one for us as a People's Party, a Christian-social party, in ethical and social matters. For me personally, the novel of the Reproductive Medicine Act, which we now decide to adopt, has a great focus, namely to alleviate the suffering of women and to strengthen the protection of women in this situation. The law is in the sense of those women who cannot have children in a natural way and who already have three or more failed in vitro fertilizations, or who can have three miscarriages or stillbirths, or simply because of untreated hereditary diseases, cannot have children. I mean, just taking out the one area, with the PID, the pre-implantation diagnosis, the possibility is created, under the strictest conditions to investigate the embryo before it is implanted before a pregnancy exists, so that women do not risk taking another miscarriage. What do we have right now? What is the reality? – We currently have the possibility of abortion until the third month of life. I haven't heard a scream here yet. We have the possibility of abortion until shortly before the child's birth, if this is disabled, i.e. a pregnancy on trial. I mean, we can just give women support with this law, give them the chance to maybe have a child. The PID could free these families from such destructive genes, it must be said quite openly so that their children can also go through life healthyly. I would like to mention something, and this has already been mentioned by Mr Scherak. What do we have right now? – At present, the women, the couples are driving abroad and leaving this very method, namely, a lot of money that the ordinary Austrian, who also wants to have a child, does not have. We do not know, however, whether these preparatory measures and the follow-up treatment needed by these women are being carried out abroad. I only know from a specific case that there was no preparation, neither medical nor legal nor subsequent psychological care of the woman afterwards. That is why I consider this reproductive medicine law and especially the PID to be an important step for women and for families. It's not like that happened only yesterday. The Bioethics Commission has been working on this for a number of years and it has been possible to build on it. I am very grateful to our Minister, Mr Brandstetter, that he, with a lot of fine feelings, with sharp and high limits, surrounds this PID in order to prevent abuse in this area. I was very important that the planned psychological advice for the egg donor is now included. I am very grateful, when I think about the post-negotiations, to the Greens too. It is very important that the ban on commercialisation is strengthened and, above all, that there be transparency through annual reports on this issue. These reports are necessary for us to know where we need to start and how this delicate subject area develops in society. I would also like to say one more thing. It has been said a lot today, but not yet. What will be prohibited in Austria, which has long been going on and going on in other countries? – There will not be in vitro fertilizations without medical indication. No reproductive medical measures for single people; no social measures Egg freezing, i.e. no removal of the egg cells, freezing and re-absorbing if you need them a few years later. There won't be any. No bond motherhood. That would be exploitation of women, quite clear. No clones, no intervention in the germinations and of course no designer babies – all that you have to say. This law brings an improvement for women, for families. I very much hope that we will continue to deal with this in the future, because we are at the beginning of a completely new social order, and this will also be discussed here in the House. I would like to thank the Federal Minister, the Federal Minister, but also the colleagues who had to jump over their shadows in the committees. Great, because of course there is also a lot of personal concern here. Above all, however, I would like to thank the citizens who, as has already been said, called us, sent e-mails and also expressed their concerns. We have tried not only to take this seriously, but also to include it in the motion for a resolution and in the amendment. I would like to thank all the citizens very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e10168	Next, Mr Ehmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e10189	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Today's bill eliminates discrimination against women, but above all it also removes discrimination from couples of the same sex. The law ensures that not only the donation of seeds, but also the donation of eggs will be possible. I would like to point out once again that this is a matter for us and not for business-making, but for the legitimate fulfillment of the child wish also of same-sex couples. The prohibition of mediation and commercialisation continues to prevent the bondage, which, of course, remains prohibited, because the eggs of a third woman may only be used if the recipient is not reproductive. So the bond motherhood is forbidden. This also prevents agencies such as in the USA or also in the discounted India from making glue maternity even an industry on the back of those concerned. However, it is also a question of enabling the potential child wish for those affected or of eliminating the existing discrimination. I think that will be achieved with this bill. Often the child's well-being has already been addressed. Couples who have decided to accompany a child for life will not really care about the child's well-being – I believe we are in agreement. On the populist arguments that come partly from opposition parties, in particular from the FPÖ, by Mr Kickl, to whom the debate is so important that he almost completely fails to do so, I would like to say only two things: Either it was about provoking purely conservative forces, or he has not fully understood the separation of state and religion. Here in Parliament, at the speaker's desk of the kind of creation, it must not have been. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e10226	Mr Huainigg spoke next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e10247	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! High house! At the beginning, I would just like to ask a small question: Which one of you is perfect? Are you perfect, Mr. Klubobmann Schieder, or are you, Mr. Klubobmann Strolz, or are you, Mrs. Oberhauser? Maybe we'll take a sample for a second. If you're perfect, please raise your hand. [[No one's got that hand.]] [[Rejoicing and condolences with representatives of ÖVP and FPÖ.]] - They laugh. If you are disabled, you can be perfect in your imperfection. In the context of pre-implantation diagnostics, the selection procedure between whorem and non-profit life, the question arises: Which baby is perfect? I have many disabled friends who, if there had been the procedure before, would not be in the world, since they would not have been considered perfect in the eyes of the doctors. Even in the future, if the selection procedure continues, the question arises whether the risk of cancer, breast cancer or other diseases also leads to a selection procedure. Mrs. Minister! In the press you made a statement that made me think very much. You said: “But a perfect baby is forbidden. This is a crime." – Of course, I give you the right to drive off one child after another until the perfect child comes into the world is a crime. But who says the kids weren't perfect before? Is not also a disabled child a perfect child? - For me: Yes. As the advocates say, pre-implantation diagnostics are better than late selection by late abortions. And what happens in the late abortions is really unbearable. [[It was in favour of the ÖVP as well as of representatives of FPÖ and NEOS.]] Even if there is suspicion of severe disability, it is removed until birth – that is not the time-limit, that goes beyond them. ==References== A baby outside the mother's womb is able to survive. And what's going to be done? The doctors kill the child in the womb by a heartstick, by a potassium chloride spray. That is legitimate in Austria and that is also a crime. [[I should like to congratulate Mr Hofer and Mr Vavrik on his work.]] [[Call to the Greens: This is not a crime!]] Mrs Oberhauser, I call on you to discuss over the next few months how to eliminate this injustice. In Germany, the PID was introduced and the Eugenian indication deleted. There is a period of thought between diagnosis and abortion. The Reproductive Medicine Act raises important social policy issues, which is why I am grateful that we have discussed them properly and sufficiently – in some cases – in the club. Thank you for that to Mr Klubobmann Lopatka. These are issues that affect the views of life and important social policy issues, such as responsibility towards the next generation. In these questions, we must not only have in mind the self-realization of adults, but above all the well-being of the child. [[I should like to say a few words on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.]] Ladies and gentlemen, for me, the human dignity – which is untouchable – is the measure of politics and from my point of view it also applies to people who seem to be not perfect. I feel obliged to do so because I personally cannot accept this law. But let us delete the Eugenic Indication and write the human dignity into the Constitution! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e10308	Mrs Bundesminister Dr. Oberhauser is now speaking. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e10329	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear visitors and listeners on the gallery and in front of the televisions! Let me say in advance that I have deep respect for the views expressed by honourable Members Huainigg as representatives of the disabled and as the disabled, even here in his speech. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP, NEOS and representatives of the Stronach team.]] However, the question is not whether perfect or not perfect, but whether seriously impaired, life-threatening ill, not healthy and healthy, or something between them. We have this question to ask ourselves when approving pre-implantation diagnostics. Nor is it a question of what every pregnant woman who has become pregnant in a natural way can do today, namely to inform herself of the health or health of her child or whether her child is born healthy or not, and then to decide: Is that what I'm doing? Is that what my family is doing? Is that what I want? Nor is it about bearing a child in vitro, i.e. in the testicular glass, uniting an egg cell and a sperm cell, and then asking: Do I want this child? Is that what I'm doing? Can I? And is this child seriously ill? In the event of an abortion, I can decide at any time, what I think is good, whether I want to have a pregnancy or not. In the case of a pre-implantation diagnosis – we expect about 30 cases a year – we can decide by means of the serious restrictions that are contained in the law and which many have explained: Do you make a pre-implantation diagnosis? Do you ever let this happen? – It is therefore not true that what we are creating here leads to a distinction between whore and unvalued life, as some have said, or between perfect and not perfect. In very restricted cases, we allow women not to take pregnancy on trial. A affected father said this to me in a television discussion, which is why I would like to give an example of what that means at all: It's about a couple of parents; the father knows he's carrying an hereditary disease. He knows this because his first child has been born with a serious, permanent and very painful illness for the child. This father did not have the opportunity to say in Austria, yes, I want a second child. If my wife gets it in a natural way, I have to expect to pass on my illness and cause real serious suffering again. This couple was forced to go abroad and make an artificial fertilization there with a pre-implantation diagnosis. He's the father of a second, healthy child. What is objectionable to giving this father the opportunity to say that I want to have a second child, I want to save him suffering and suffering and I can do this here in Austria under very, very strict rules? That is why I am very pleased – I believe that the first person to say was Mr Musiol – that we are adopting this law here today. I am very pleased because then we no longer say: not with us in Austria, goes elsewhere; but that in Austria we allow this under very, very strict criteria for continued pre-implantation diagnostics, that is, only in some very serious cases with a strict regulation. The second reason why I am very pleased is that women in equal sex partnerships, such as those couples who brought down this law – which I know from a television discussion and also see on top of the gallery – can receive a seed donation here in Austria quite legally. And to the many who talk about child welfare: Please, what if I want to get a child by means of a seed donation can there be better than that clearly registered, from whom the child is from, and that this child later has the right to know who his father is?- Oh, my God! What has been up to now? – Responsible couples who have taken care of a seed donation either abroad or with friends have of course informed their children about who their father is and how they have come to be. But if that wasn't the case, then this child wouldn't even have the chance to find out – through a register or anything – who his father is and where it comes from. In Austria this is regulated in a very, very good way. [[Conspicuousness with SPÖ and greens as well as with the Abg. Pock.]] The spectators on the screens were not involved in the discussion, which was conducted in the health exclusion. This was a discussion that lasted almost five hours, which was conducted at a very, very good, very controversial level. On the one hand, it was discussed in the Health Committee for a very long time, on the other hand – before my political activity in this House – since 2004 in the Bioethi Commission the question has been raised again and again: How, please, do you adapt the reproductive medicine law in Austria to international standards? – We have now succeeded. I would like to thank all the groups very much for the very clear discussion, including those in the Health Committee. I thank the coalition partner. I am aware that this issue was not easy to discuss, that many discussions were held and that the discussion was very controversial. I thank the Greens and I thank the NEOS for the very constructive dialogue and also for the questions: How can you improve this law, how can you continue? This is probably not the end, but a process that will probably accompany us for the next few years, decades. I hope that this process will continue to run in such a good common way, for the benefit of the people living in Austria and of the hopefully healthy children or not perfect children or perfect children – because for parents children will always be perfect – who will come to this world. I hope that this law will be properly used. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e10409	Now, Mrs Deputies has come to the fore. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e10430	Mr President. Mrs Oberhauser! Minister Brandstetter! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! As Mrs Oberhauser has already mentioned, we have not made the decision easy. It was a long ringing The ethical values of each individual, between the existing legitimate wishes and, of course, the fears that are also justified on the other side. Finally, however, it has become a law, which at least I can personally agree with for various reasons and with good conscience. There were three topics that have always been discussed in the hundreds of emails we have received. The first topic is: In the context of PID, this was on the one hand the danger of selection and on the other – and this has already been addressed today – the dreaded danger of the designer baby. Due to the very strong limitation of PID and the consistent principle of subsidiarity, I believe that the designer baby – i.e.: I wish to have a sporty child, brunette and green-eyed – can definitely be excluded. As far as selection is concerned, of course, this is not desirable, and there are quite a few cases in which it is taken. I worked for 25 years as a Bobath therapist with some severely handicapped children. I also had a family with two seriously disabled children in care – genetically severely disabled children – and both children are before the 18th. He died. I would like to see those among you who say a family like this: Although there is the possibility to determine at an eight-cell stage whether this second child would also have this severe disability in the event of a second pregnancy, I am very sorry, I have not been able to answer that, unfortunately, you are not going abroad. So which one of you could do that!? – I couldn't do it with a good conscience. I find that cynical. That is why I find the way in which we regulate PID very, very good. [[Congratulations on ÖVP, SPÖ and Greens.]] On the second subject: That was the egg donation. We have always had a problem with this in the EIA, too, when it comes to the question: Do you take advantage of the woman's body? – I believe that this is very well prevented by this very, very strong commercialisation and advertising ban. Mrs Schittenhelm pointed out that there are already a lot of women taking advantage of this, for example in the Czech Republic, but there with anonymous ova donation. Although the argument has been put forward in the Committee that there is an investigation that many women or parents do not tell their children where they come from: If I had received an anonymous egg donation and then had to tell the child, yes, I'm sorry, I don't know if your mother is a university professor or maybe also a small criminal, I can't tell you, then, honestly, I wouldn't say it to my child either. On the third subject: This is artificial fertilization. This is partly specified by the VfGH. The argument of attack on the classical family is always presented. I don't think so. For me, this is simply an extension of the family. No law says that as a heterosexual wife and mother of two children, I have to change my sexuality or that this is only available to homosexual couples. I see this as an extension and therefore I can say – also based on a lot of discussions I have had with the ÖVP women in Upper Austria – that: I can agree with this law for good reason and with good conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e10499	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Straster to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e10521	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen. The natural sciences and their applications are in constant development. Technology and medicine always give us new tools, which can be used for the benefit of people or which one can deliberately refuse. In this context, reproductive medicine is a particularly sensitive area because there are fates of people, fates of families with major ethical issues. I welcome the intensive discussion over the last few weeks, because this has enabled us to consider many aspects carefully and to incorporate them into the legislative text. Commercialisation and abuse are being punished. The PID is generally prohibited and only possible under strict conditions. In this law, man is at the heart of the law, a circumstance that is not present in the time frame and in the Eugenic indication, in the late abortions, as Mr Huainigg has pointed out. That is why I call for these discussions to continue when it comes to psychological care and advice and children's rights, when it comes to a period of reflection between consultation and intervention in the time-limits, when it comes to statistical material that serves cause research and when accompanying measures are necessary – just as is the case in the new reproductive medicine law in order to come up with practical solutions. Finally – because Mr. Kickl is back and today has given himself very close to the church – a short quote from the “standard” of 22. May 2009, with which he directed Cardinal Schönborn in response to his preaching in St. Stephen's Cathedral somewhat Conscious campaign against the FPÖ of twisters and subcontractors who do not want an honest debate on the issue of a leading culture and the future of Europe. [[Abg. Kickl: Do you think he's always right?- Oh, my God!]] - Quote. Mr Kickl, I understand the call from our clubman Lopatka. Take this to heart! – Thank you very much and very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e10558	The final provisional statement on this item on the agenda is from Mrs Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e10596	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! [[Abg. Kickl: He's not always right, Cardinal!]] It has already come out in the interlocutory calls or in the debate of Members, not every Cardinal is always right, so if you take care of it... [[Abg. Wögerer: Look here!]] [[Abg. Lopatka: Yes, yes!]] – If you are concerned about what the Vatican line is in these questions, then it is a completely different line, and there you are certainly not right now, but you have been left with it several times, as you can say in addition. [[Abg. Bitch: Everyone's missing!]] [[Abg. Lopatka: Have you already discovered the Vatican?- Oh, my God!]] This debate separates the spirits, and they rightly divorce, for it is an important question. There is a part here, and it will, thanks to the ÖVP – and it must be stressed quite clearly – unfortunately be the majority that places the right to a child at the centre, and there is the FPÖ, which says that the right to a child cannot reasonably be justified. On the contrary: FPÖ considers that this right to a child may also be contrary to the child's right. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] You, who have so focused this right to a child, mean the right of an individual, a person who absolutely wants to live up to this child's desire. Minister Brandstetter! They have spoken so graciously about it that it is about enabling a child's desire and facilitating family life. - That's not the point at all. This is something else, and the Members of your group and also of the Greens have clearly punished you, if I may say so, by saying that this law is a great progress towards gender equality. – That’s why it’s not about the right to have children, or about strengthening the family. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] We see others not only as individuals, but also as people in a greater context. This, Mr Lopata, can be done as a Christian, of course, by seeing oneself as part of creation; but this can also be justified scientifically if you allow me to do so. Man does not face nature, but he is part of it. And to recognize life realities or realities, Mrs Musiol, is above all to recognize the conditions under which we all live, as part of nature, and from these conditions – we say natural laws on this – the rules for social living together and for our laws. [[Abg. Musiol: Your natural law seems to be another!]] But that's not necessarily your motto. I'm just saying one thing: We seek and recognize realities; They live in utopia. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the Stronach team.]] Recently I found a quote again, from a time when the left was still young and spoke free from the liver – recently it appeared again in the mirror – and there I thought: So hybrid, you have to be so superlative. “Feminists” – these have now been strengthened by the lobby of the same sexes of course – “must not only call into question the entire Western culture, but rather the culture itself, more still: even nature”, says Shulamith Firestone in her work “Women Liberation and Sexual Revolution”. On this path, ladies and gentlemen, especially from the ÖVP – listen! – they're moving very well, but he's not necessarily. Some of you will have read the “Press ” today. There is an example from Slovakia – a pity that bourgeois reason at our borders must somehow simmer, that is very peculiar – in which it is shown that this path is not necessarily. With the explicit mention of the warning example Austria has established itself in Slovakia an initiative to protect the family – you have read it, I look at it, I see it at your ante, but you should listen to it again – which is supported by the Bishops' Conference, which is preventively active so that what has happened in Austria cannot happen there, the family cannot be forced by courts to develop in a direction that the conservative Slovaks and also the Church in Slovakia do not want. And now don't tell me you didn't understand this and you didn't get it, because I was in this House for the first time in 2002, and then we already discussed it. At the time when you agreed on gender equality, there was already a ruling in Strasbourg, which had to be made quite clearly and necessarily, in this case already: if equality, then total equality. Don't hypocrite! You must have known, we discussed it here. And I mean, you knew it, too, but it's a tactic, a tactic that you keep observing. [[Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek: What do you have against equality?]] – Equality of the same, and not equality of inequalities, that is certainly clear! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ, representatives of the Stronach team and the Abg. Vavrik.]] It's a tactic. In matters of which you believe that you cannot really believe in the electorate, where you do not know exactly whether all your Members are involved – you probably have to worry less about it – where it is at least difficult for your Members to represent that at home in the constituency, in a conservative rural community, in a farm family, you make it quite easy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrary]] There you order it almost at the Court of Justice, but you have already set the course in this direction by legalizing the partnerships; then the judgment comes and then you do it. [[Abg. Lopatka: nothing at the Court of Justice!]] [[Abg. Stache: Softly set!]] [[Congratulations with the FPÖ, representatives of the Stronach team and the Abg. Vavrik.]] This has, of course, advantages for you, but, Mr Klubobmann, it is extremely dishonest and it is not democratic either, because this blending of legislative powers and their transfer to courts is, of course, also disturbing the rule of law with the basic principle of separation of power. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lopatka]] You don't care if you can achieve your goals. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] – That's only true, that's only true now. You have set the course that the first one who complains must get right. The fact that you stand here today and this law you did not wish to vote honestly here in Parliament, through the back door, is quite the truth. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lopatka.]] I would like to stress once again that you have given me the keyword. This law separates the spirits, for it is a law that gives information on how to stand for life at all, what you think about its feasibility, its manipulability and its availability. And you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, will help this law to a majority. It's you, and you're definitely sitting in the wrong boat.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e10805	No one has made any mention of this. The debate is closed. I do not recognise the rapporteur's wish for a final word. We shall vote on the draft law in 445 of the Supplements. There is a motion for an amendment tabled by Mr Mag. Meinl-Reisinger, ladies and gentlemen, as well as an amendment or amendment tabled by Mr Spindelberger, Dr Rasinger, Dr Mückstein, colleagues. I will therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the proposed addition or amendment, which follow the classification of the draft law, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Mag. Meinl-Reisinger, ladies and gentlemen, have an amendment concerning Art. 1 Z 3 § 2 introduced. Whoever is here, please give a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Members Spindelberger, Dr. Rasinger, Dr. Mückstein, colleagues have an additional or amendment request concerning Art. 1 Z 3 § 2a, Art. 1 Z 6 and Z 9 and Art. 2 and 3. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a positive sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. – In turn, this is accepted by a majority. We shall now come to the third reading. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of As this request was made by 20 Members, a nameable vote must be taken. The ballots to be used are in the drawers of the Members' House and bear the name of the Members and the name "Yes" – these are the grey polls – or "No" – which are the pink ones. Only those official votes can be used for the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I am seeking the approval of those Members who do not wish to give their consent to this draft law at a third reading, “Yes” vote, those who do not wish to give him their consent to put “No” vote. I would like to draw your attention once again to the fact that you should be careful to vote for only one vote; these sometimes stick together. I now ask the writer, Mrs Musiol, to begin the call for name; Mr Gahr will replace them later.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e10898	The vote will end. The officials of the House responsible for this task will now make the number of votes under the supervision of the scribes. I am interrupting the session for a few minutes to this end.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e10938	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. Members cast: 161; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 113, ‘No’ votes: 48. This draft law is therefore adopted at the third reading. According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating your voting behaviour. [[14:38:00]] Members voted in ‘Yes’: Alm, Amon, Antoni, Aslan, Aubauer, Auer, Bacher Walter, Bayr, Becher Ruth, Berlakovich, Brosz, Brunner, Buchmayr; Cap; Darabos, Diesner Wais, perforation; Ecker, Ehmann, Eßl; Fichtinger Klaus Uwe, Fekter, Fichtinger Angela; Gahr, Gessl-Ranftl, Glavischnig-Piesczek, Greiner Karin, Grillitsch, Groiß, Grossmann, Gusenbauer-Jäger; Hable, Hakel Elisabeth, Hammer Michael, Hanger Andreas, Haubner, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Himmelbauer, Hofinger Manfred, Holzinger; Jank, Jarolim; Karl, Katzian, Knes, Köchl, Kogler, Königsberger-Ludwig, Kopf, Krainer Kai Jan, Krist, Kucharovich, Kuntzl, Kuzdas; Lettenbichler, Lightenecker, Loacker, Lopatka, Lueger Angela; Matznetter, Maurer, Mayer, Meinl-Reisinger, Muchich, Mückstein, Musiol, Muttonen; Obernosterer, kilnauer, ottenschlager; Pendl, Plessl, Pock, Preiner, Prince; Rädler, Rasinger, Rauch Johannes, Rossmann; Schelhorn, Scherak, Schieder, Schittenhelm, Schmid Julian, Schmid Julian, Schmier, Schönegger, Schopf, Schultes, Schwentner, Sieber Norbert, Singer Johann, Spindelberger, Steinhauser, Strasser, Strollz; Tumandl, daughters, door; sub-railers; Vogl; Walser, Weninger, Willi, Wimmer, tiny, Wittmann, Wevinger, Worm Gisela; Yılmaz; Zinggl. Members voted with ‘No’: Anger; Belakovich-Jenewein; Darmann, Deimek, Dietrich; El Habbassi, Ertlschweiger; Franz, Fuchs; Gerstl; Hackl Heinz-Peter, Hafenecker, Haider, Hofer, Huainigg, Hübner; Jannach; Cashier, Kickl, Kitzmüller, Kunasek; Lausch, Lintl, Lugar Robert; Mölzer, Mühlberghuber; Rebaur Kathrin, Neubauer Werner; Podgorschek; smoke Walter, Riemer, Rosary Barbara, Rosary Walter; Schellenbacher, Schenk, Schimanek, Schmid Gerhard, Schrangl, Stefan, Steger, Steinbichler, Strache; Vavrik; Refusal torphere, winter, worm Peter; Zakostelsky, singer.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e11131	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Franz, ladies and gentlemen, on 'Definition of the embryo from the date of fertilization of the eggells'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of a corresponding sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. The vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Spindelberger, Mr Schittenhelm, Mr Mückstein, Mr President, on the simplified information available to children. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. (E 62.) [[14:38:47]] 2. Point Report of the Health Committee on the Government Template (444 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Medical Massage Law, the MTD Act and the Medical Assistance Law (451 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e11183	We're now on the 2nd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein has been reported. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e11210	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We come to the law concerning the healing masseurs or the medical masseurs. It is a federal legislative matter in which it is a matter of shortening the training and of reducing the The system is designed to expand the skills and skills of the masseurs. We are very critical of this and we will reject it. I'll try to explain this to you. We are at a time when we have a massive medical shortage. We are also at an interface where it is on the one hand about maintaining medical care, and on the other hand about having the experiments of supply centres. I have mentioned this several times: Many considerations result from the situation in which we find ourselves that the upgrading of nursing staff should come, the upgrading also in the case of masseurs, and I believe that it is the wrong way to meet a medical defect by increasing the value of other health professions, passing on more and more tasks to them. I really have the massive fear that health care will get worse, and that is the main reason why we will vote against this law. We want to see the family doctor, who has been promised for years that he will be upgraded, also really as the upgraded family doctor. We do not want to push him to the corner and withdraw more and more competences, and I have this fear again very strong in this law. That is why we will not give this law our consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e11247	The next item is the speech by Mr Hechtl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e11268	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I do not understand, Mrs. Belakovich-Jenewein, what this medical massage law has to do with the lack of doctors, but with these changes in the Medical Massage Law, with the law of the medical and technical service, with the Medical Assistance Act, I believe that there are significant improvements in training – even more practical orientation, even more quality in training and, above all, increased access to professional practice. The introduction of the special qualification “basic mobility” in the Medical Massives Act gives the training content mobility and handling of walking aids, especially for older people, when they enjoy the massage, an important priority. In my view, the reduction in training, which is only related to the practical part, clearly reflects the permeability of the two professions. The accounting and balance of professional qualifications and the provision of evidence, such as a completed training or a certificate of qualification, a right to exercise the physiotherapy service or equivalent proof of medical and technical training, will ensure that the existing professional activities can continue to be carried out in this area and in basic mobility. With the possibility of using the ordination assistants in non-bedding stations or organizational units in the hospitals, speak of ambulances, the individual departments will ensure that professional opportunities can be extended for the persons concerned. Dear ladies and gentlemen! These amendments will strengthen the practical proximity of training and practice in the health professions concerned, ensure best vocational training and quality, expand the field of application and also update industrial measures or provisions. For me, ladies and gentlemen, this law is a high-quality law, a practical and forward-looking law, and I can congratulate you, Mrs Oberhauser, quite cordially.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e11310	The next item is Mrs Diesner-Wais. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e11332	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleague! I do not see any reduction in the duties of the doctors in this law, because this government template has been drawn up because the current requirements no longer meet the requirements of time and therefore new training systems have been developed. The practice has just shown us that training from industrial masseur to medical masseur is very extensive, has a long duration and can hardly be dealt with in a professional manner. Therefore, the practical hours have now been reduced from 875 to 580, and this shows us that already learned techniques with the focus on sick people are being deepened. We're getting older, but that doesn't mean we're healthy longer. Therefore, mobility is an important factor and also important for people so that they can lead an independent life for a relatively long time. There is also the special training “basismobilization” in which 80-hour additional training is added. With the help of this basic mobility, people in mobility are being supported, and they are taught how to handle walking aids and other knowledge of their movement processes. This additional qualification should now be possible for medical massages, as well as medical mass hours in a service relationship and also in professional training. This is an important requirement that we have for the future, because people are getting older and need support in mobilization. As already mentioned, the MTD law is also unraveled and simplified. It is then also possible that the learned profession can be practiced in the seven sectors in a working relationship but also in the professional field. This law is a good way to speed up recovery and take account of demographic development. That is why it is an important step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e11362	The next item is Mrs Dr. Mückstein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e11383	We too will agree to this package of laws. I cannot follow this criticism either. I particularly welcome the simplification of professional practice in the MTD Act. We need a preparation for the primary supply centres, and it is important that there are no restrictions on the employer or employment relationship, otherwise these new constellations would not be possible at all. I also find the reduction of the training of industrial masseurs to be good, contemporary and necessary. We have two suggestions or requests for change, namely in relation to the additional qualification ‘basic mobility’, and we think that it is an activity which is very clearly defined as physiotherapy and should in principle also be applied in the intramural and not in the professional field. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would also like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I'm just trying to explain this briefly. Since the entry into force of the Federal Law on the Professions of the medical masseurs and the healing masseurs, distinction has been made between the medical masseur and the medical masseur as well as the commercial masseur. The variety of different activity and competence profiles that have been created on the basis of this law and the industrial order have caused great uncertainty among the masseurs and are also sometimes threatening to exist. It would be urgently necessary to bring the professional image of the industrial masseur – and this is actually the most important argument – to that of the medical massager and the healing massager. At present, for example, it is not possible for commercial masseurs to work in Germany. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e11472	Both the amendment tabled by Mrs Mückstein and the motion for a resolution are sufficiently supported and are therefore under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e11573	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e11594	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Interests in the field of masseurs and massages of healing have been reported, because they fear qualitative deterioration, and of course no one can be and is no one. That is why it will be important to ensure that the quality of performance is guaranteed if we make the basic mobility available to several professional groups, while also ensuring that a service can be provided across the board and that enough people are available to do so. However, we cannot address the quality issue by playing one professional group against another. That is why it is in the interests of all, if we pay attention to the transfer of knowledge between health professionals, for example, through the participation of physiotherapists, whose scope of activity goes far beyond what we can handle today, in the practical part of basic mobility training. Therefore, we make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] In an appropriate time, an evaluation of these schemes would be necessary. Mrs Bundesminister Oberhauser, I ask you to have an eye on it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e11649	The amendment tabled by Mr Loacker is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e11701	Mrs Bundesminister Dr. Oberhauser came to speak. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e11724	Mr President. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request for an early vote on the request for an early Professional rights in Austria are subject to constant change and innovation. We are currently working on the issue of health and health care, the doctor's law was there. Now we have again dedicated several professional groups to this law. There are 110 000 people in Austria who work in the health professions. I think they deserve clear, good careers. I think we have taken a step forward with this law, and I thank you for the discussion.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e11749	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister. Ladies and gentlemen! May I draw attention to the fact that, as it looks, the vote before the urgent request will continue. May I ask the folders and club members to appeal to their representatives. Mr Ing. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party to Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e11779	Mr President. Dear Minister! High house! These draft laws reflect two points. On the one hand, we want to try, with these draft laws, to give new job opportunities to the people who work in this field, where it makes sense to provide new job opportunities – be it by expanding their professional spectrum, where the ordination assistants are concerned, or where it is possible to carry out additional activities through training. It is very important for those concerned and employees in this area to expand their employability. On the other hand – and Mrs Belakovich-Jenewein has pointed out – we naturally have the problem that we face health challenges through the ageing society. On the one hand, older people today are healthier and more agile than we could imagine earlier. On the other hand, today supply situations are necessary, which we did not know before. Being able to offer the right supply is the challenge. In these new professional groups, we are trying to address this challenge a lot. However, we know that it is a very difficult and narrow welcome to find the right care for the people concerned. One thing I would like to share with all of us: More time for administration cannot be the goal in the health field, and therefore also our desire: more time for patients – and not for the administration. That's also something we want to achieve. There is a saying in the technique, which means: Quality is produced, quality is not checked. In this sense, I would also like to see the health system focus more on patients and less on documenting the things we do to patients, so that – if something has gone wrong – it can be proved that everything has been done in the right way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e11812	No one has made any mention of this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur's final word is not wanted. We shall come to the vote on the draft law in 444 of the supplements. There is a motion for an amendment tabled by Mrs Mückstein, colleagues and a motion for an amendment tabled by Mr Mag. Mr Loacker, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I will vote on the parts concerned by the proposed amendments, following the legislative classification, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Mr Mückstein, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Mückstein, for his excellent report. 1 Z 6. Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Government template. Whoever is for that, please give a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Deputies Mag. Loacker, ladies and gentlemen, have an amendment concerning Art. 1 Z 13. Whoever is for that, please give a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. Mr Mückstein, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we have also tabled a motion for an amendment. 1 Z 13. Whoever is for that, please give a sign. – This is also the minority and therefore rejected. vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Government template. Whoever is for that, please give a sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. The vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt, will be taken in the form of the Government template. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who would like to vote in favour of this draft law at third reading. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. Debates of the European Parliament I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We'd now be on the 3rd. Debates of the European Parliament Since it is planned to deal with a urgent request by 15 a.m., I am now saving myself the interruption of the sitting. I'm just interrupting the debate, because it's at 3 p.m. We can therefore continue to deal with the urgent request, at least if I continue to speak for a few seconds. Negotiations on the agenda are therefore interrupted in order to allow the requested examination of a urgent request to take place in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[15:00:14]] Request for urgent procedure by Mr Josef Schellhorn, Members of Parliament, on the offensive package ‘Entrepreneurial Austria’ (855/A)(E)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e11937	It's now at 3:00 p.m. We therefore come to the urgent treatment of the self-employed application 855/A(E). As he has now approached all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the writer. The urgent application has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e12201	I call Mr Schellhorn to speak first. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e12222	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we present a critical proposal to the Federal Government, especially to their boss, Chancellor Faymann, because we believe that this lack of leadership, this indecision and this lack of lust of the Federal Government in the local, economic and corporate policy have at present exceeded a critical point, in the meantime to do collateral damage that will hardly be possible to repair at the end of this legislative period. We believe that there is currently a hostile environment for companies and that far more than the current 407,000 unemployed will be affected if your policy of neglect is not terminated. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Today, the current study by Ernst & Young, the medium-sized barometer, has happened by chance: Only 15 percent of Austrian companies consider this economic and location policy to be positive. This is the second worst value in Greece. Small and medium-sized enterprises, SMEs, are the real heroes of this economy. This is our opinion, and I think you would also sign it. SMEs still account for 68 percent of jobs. Self-employed, EPCs, start-ups, SMEs, whatever they may be categorized, take their own fate into their own hands and take on personal risks to create jobs. These are people who have decided not to be a neglecter, but to become entrepreneurs. Disfellowshippings are in our eyes you, dear Federal Government. These are you: You're not a businessman, you're a failure! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] 407,000 people have slipped into the new year without work. 407,000 unemployed! Not entrepreneurs are responsible for this, but a tax rate that has reached 45.2 percent and is now already higher than in Sweden, a debt ratio that has risen from 1974 to now from 16 to 81 percent. 407,000 unemployed people are not responsible for this, and you are responsible for it, and you must attach it to your chest. If entrepreneurs fail, they will try to do better next time. Entrepreneurs do not simply make a bad product more expensive and force customers to buy it anyway. Entrepreneurs also do not take up debts for 40 years to bring their deficit-making operations into the rounds. But this is unfortunately what you, dear Federal Government, are doing as a neglecter: They increase the debt and charges at the expense of the next generation and hope to be in retirement before this ticket house collapses. Really good entrepreneurs can also exist with really bad conditions like those you create, and fortunately we really have many really good entrepreneurs in Austria. But what do we do if we no longer have entrepreneurs at any time, because the new generation has no desire to constantly impose higher taxes and constantly have to fight more stringent restrictions. I can tell you from my perspective as an entrepreneur, but also as a father: My two sons are 22 and 24 years old. They have grown up thanks to God in a land where people live in prosperity, without wars, without hunger, without need, in a free society. But they have also grown up in an entrepreneurial house and soon noticed that you can achieve more in life than a job from Monday to Friday, that performance must also pay off, that it must be worthwhile to work something, and that it also pays off when you take risks. And do you know what my two sons are doing? - They want to leave. You want to get out of this country. They think they have more opportunities in another country. In other countries on earth there are, of course, much more opportunities, more opportunities for quality education, a education that meets the requirements of the 21st century. Century corresponds to, more opportunities for entrepreneurship, more opportunities for generation-righteousness. We all know that many young people are doing this because we are not giving them any prospects. I would like to break a lance here for all the young people, for all the entrepreneurs and for all the workers. You, dear Federal Government, know and I know that these people are dissatisfied that they are afraid of their future, that they are seeing fewer and less opportunities. The difference between me and you, dear Federal Government, is that you cannot explain why this is so. Let me explain this briefly: 407,000 people without work, which means that with their families there are about one million affected in Austria, that is every eight-eight. What do you do about it, the neglecters? What can you do with your omission policy? - Nothing! They can be directed at each other through the media, which is the right approach to boosting the economy, creating jobs. You have a lack of minimal versions of a tax reform and you know exactly that neither of your concepts solves any problem. The only thing you buy with your medial back and forth tactics is time for this government. You both, SPÖ and ÖVP, are responsible for this. No one can take this responsibility. And as in a company, their boss is particularly responsible, and this is at least Federal Chancellor Faymann. You will certainly object to me here, you will come straight to me, but what I would like to give you for your speech in the sense of the young people, the entrepreneurs and the workers and employees, is the following: Do you have answers to the three most pressing questions: to the rising unemployment, to the fact that citizens remain less and less in the stock exchange, to the question of why your bureaucracy is constantly growing? - Miss. No, you don't have any answers! So far, we've never got answers from you. But I'm excited, maybe you've come up with something about the Christmas holidays. The problem is, you, Mr. Federal Chancellor – Mr. Vice-Chancellor is not here, unfortunately – know what to do, but you do not! And this is the unforgivable: You don't do what you're supposed to do! And this is what robs people of confidence: They're not going to do it. I would like to point out once again that the SPÖ was involved in 13 out of 15 federal governments from 1976 to 2014, the ÖVP still has 10 out of 15, it has been responsible for government for 10 150 days. That you don't put this responsibility to sleep, we know. But it is killing us to sleep, to us entrepreneurs, who have to fear that we can continue to employ our employees, if suddenly the next fantasy sex tax – since yesterday we know what it has brought in – turns around the corner or increases wage costs even further. Of course, you will tell us again today, the starting point is fatal. The recession is manifest in Austria. We don't have a problem, we have a lot of problems. – All these problems are homemade! And please don't put your problems back on the hypo, which is pretty slowly embarrassing. The economy may be in debt. But I'm asking you: When are there better moments than now to reheat the economy, to revive at these low oil prices, at the strong franc, in this weak euro?- Oh, my God! This would be incredibly important for our export business. A better time window than now may not exist for decades to boost the economy structurally, create jobs. In this way, you can hardly talk about an economic reform policy in your work. Again misrepresentation. We can only give the answer again: No, that's not an economic reform policy you're doing! It's a client policy, and with your broken eye, you're still shivering at the upcoming elections, instead of proving courage and honesty. Acting power and decision-making will are required, not election. For decades SPÖ and ÖVP have promised us lower taxes and taxes, low government debt and declining unemployment rates. They promise us the blue from the sky and flowering landscapes. And what happened? - Nothing! That's this zero number that Kattinger speaks of in the ‘NCZ’, this zero number that this federal government gives, also testifies to your failure and not to do anything. What the entrepreneurs demand, I can tell you with certainty after 50 business visits, are the following: First: We urgently need a mentality reform that deserves its name. Entrepreneurs don't want to be bitters. Secondly, We need free entrepreneurship with flexibilisation and deregulation. And thirdly, Work has to pay for it again. Against these challenges, your economic policy reminds entrepreneurs at most of a sugar salad. They distribute sugar, and all are toxic sugars; toxic sugars, as regards pensions and generation justice, toxic sugars, as regards taxation of the factor labour, say: cold progression, toxic sugars, as far as economic policy is concerned with deregulation and “less state, more private”. Last example: ÖIAG reform. They are celebrating a fragrant fan as a great success. If you believe that the reform of the ÖIAG, which is now the ÖBIB, was a success, then it can only be in your eyes that you have done the repoliticization again. This repoliticization is celebrating the biggest comeback since Hermann Maier. The ÖBIB is also not a witness to an entrepreneurship Austria. The only companies that can be pleased are the agencies and signposters. What you've done at the ÖIAG makes you think bad for your tax reform. The Austrians are expecting a real tax reform that deserves this name. A new zero number does not tolerate citizens, the entrepreneurs do not tolerate. I say it again: What all people need is mentality reform. A mentality reform that can only be carried by all of us! To do this, we need to project confidence and images. What are your pictures of optimism, your pictures of where Austria should be located in 2030? And with pictures I don't mean Your personal longings and fantasies, but a vision for our country. For your pictures and visions for our country, I can tell you some examples of my company visits. An entrepreneur, for example, in Vienna... – Yes, we are drawing. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] I am also a great painter, that may be already, but I can also tell you, for example, that there is an entrepreneur in Vienna who has opened up a large area and had to lock up the next day because the authority did not agree whether a level or a step would lead to its guest room. I can tell you about an entrepreneur in Carinthia who built a production hall for solar panels. Of course, it takes parking for its employees. In order to obtain the approval, the Authority has prescribed trees to be shaded. These trees had no diameter of ten centimeters. That's why he's been punished! – Is this free entrepreneurship? Do you want that? [[Abg. Arbitrators: Are you against trees?]] Or: An entrepreneur in Obertauern may operate a taxi, but this is not the case in his second operation in Salzburg. We are not responsible for this, the government is responsible and the chambers are also responsible for it. No, it's you who are blocking a free entrepreneurship because you're a government in the hostagery of the chambers. I believe that economic chamber officials are parasites in the form of representation.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e12284	Mr Schellhorn, for the expression ‘parasites’, I give you a call for order.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e12307	The Chamber for Industrial Prevention is looking at how both government parties – I still have the request in mind – submit a request from Mr Matznetter and Mr Haubner for red tape and for trade reform. You could have done that, you don't have to make a request! The application reads as follows: ‘Bürocracy reduction now’. He has number 666/A(E), Mr Matznetter, I still have the number in my head. Should I laugh or cry when Leitl speaks of the destruction of this bureaucracy sample? What it looks like with your Ideas and implementation opportunities for education, location development and research? – Clearly, for such visions, of course, there is also a need for appropriate education. That is why we want to reform education, but we fail to do so. Last example: Two SPÖ mayors ride in the Lower Austrian election campaign for what place to build a gymnasium for 10 to 14 year olds – a gymnasium! I thought Minister Schmied had propagated the New Middle School in the previous government, but it again seemed to be the expression of failure, the failure of the middle school, the failure of this government. And that's again the biggest zero number we've seen. Indeed, the entrepreneurship Austria feels abandoned by the Federal Government, it is so. Political starkness, in my opinion, is not a scourge of God, it is a result of your political work. You know, but you're still in default and you're not doing anything. While you invite the social partners to the Gulaschkanone before the collective treaty negotiations, while the social partners are warming up at the Gulaschkanone, you do not even hear the company. In addition to you, there is another large-scale economic summit to which industrial captains are piling to Ballhausplatz, while others, SMEs, have to seal into Wiedner's main road. It can be! On the other hand, let the forgotten backbone, the SMEs and the EPUs, guide you through the media which new shocks you have led to, which conditions you sent back to the pipeline. If then wage increases come out, then also a forced representative, the board, is pleased because the chamber envelope 2 is naturally increased. They have no dew that upsets the people of this land. Drive out to the people and listen to this! Then you'll get cold, and I know you're uncomfortable. Of course, it's much colder than inside here, we know that too, but in life, in reality it looks a little different now. Therefore: Get out of this comfort zone! And I think that's what businessmen deserve. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] We need dynamic design. Again here again misrepresentation! We need a dynamic design! They are administrators of your system and not designers of a modern entrepreneurial Austria. We need the creation of new working worlds in terms of production peaks and the integration of older workers. Finally, do something and don't miss anything! Many are forced to cut down jobs because there is a deterioration in working hours and working worlds. All those who have peaks in production, for example in autumn at the winter shoes, can no longer cover these tips, drive back their operations and employ fewer employees. - Is that what you want? This concerns all those who do not possess entrepreneurial freedoms. That is why it is about creating business freedoms and reducing this bureaucracy sample, which itself speaks of as a leitl of the Chamber of Industrial Prevention. We do not want to forget here either, he has fed this monster, and it has become so big and strong with his consent. That's reality. Without entrepreneurial freedoms, we are heading towards an unemployment rate of 450 000, you know, that is known to you. It must succeed in a national effort to counter this, and we also want to help you because you are trapped in your rigidity, in the rigidity of the social partners and the forced membership that requires it. We will therefore present today a proposal for a “national growth offensive”. In this offensive, include the opposition parties. Let's see that you don't care about these 450 000 unemployed for Christmas 2015! Otherwise, you should be blamed for the fact that this country does not matter to you, for your own sake, how it has become no matter how my children have become, and it has taken the flight from that country. We make the silk of revelation and put on the table our proposals that finance themselves: 1. Mental reform: Entrepreneurship allows instead of regulating it. 2. Education: Education as a key factor in the future of Austria. 3rd. Bureaucracy reduction now: Take this issue seriously and not just make proposals! 4. Making budget-oriented. 5. Tax reform: a tax legislation that corresponds to the title “less, simpler and more appropriate to generation”. 6. To enable innovation through alternative financing options and not through trade regulation and short-sightedness. 7. Labour market: You can only revitalize this with a flexibilization of employment and a professional offensive. Dear Federal Government! Mr. Federal Chancellor! Listen Please stop and finally do something in the sense of these young entrepreneurs, the young people and this mass of unemployed people! – Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e12405	Mr Faymann spoke on a point of view. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e12426	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Although I would like to address some of the points that you have formulated in your speech as constructive points, first of all I would like to say something about the expected comparison. As a member of an opposition party, they come to the speaker's desk – it would not have required NEOS to do so – in order to give us something and to present Austria as if everything the government does was wrong and everything you brought in headlines. Now I come as an Austrian Chancellor and say that the government works great in the following points. – No new party would have needed it for this type of dispute. This is not new, it is a style that is well maintained in this house too often. I will try to explain, in accordance with my role, what is positive in our country and then deal with a number of points in which I think you have the right approach and which we should develop together. First of all, how terrible everything is according to your list and that you hardly want to become more entrepreneurs in Austria. In short, on the figures and facts, also on the question of employment: With just under 3.5 million self-employed In Austria, employees are as many people at work as never before. Together with Germany, we have the lowest unemployment rate and the second lowest youth unemployment rate in the European Union. Austria is one of six countries in the EU where the risk of poverty has fallen since 2008. In Austria, private investment has remained stable since the beginning of the crisis. They have fallen in the vast majority of European countries. The EU is now responding to this development with the €300 billion package and many other measures which the European Union is not yet sufficiently prepared to deal with, but which are being strongly debated. – I am still talking about these measures. Despite the crisis, the research rate in Austria rose from 2.6 in 2008 to 2.8 percent in 2013. I will then also comment on some of the initiatives you have addressed in headlines. Now to your urgent request in connection with your comments. They argue what is better in Germany. Yes, in Germany there are a number of points which show in the comparison that Germany is not only the strongest economic nation in the European Union and one of the strongest economic nations in the world, but also in some factors it plays a role in comparison and in some cases is better. However, I also call you a few points in which Austria is clearly ahead of you. [[Abg. Podgorschek: Yes, number of parties!]] In eight out of twelve months Austria had a lower unemployment rate than Germany. – You may find that funny because you don't care about unemployment, mainly opposition screaming. Share of low-paid recipients under 10 € gross – you don't care, Mr. Deputy of the FPÖ, but we don't: Austria – 15 percent, Germany – 22.2 percent. Share of involuntary part-time: Austria – 11.7 percent, Germany – 16 percent. Long-term unemployed: Austria – 24.8 percent, Germany – 45.2 percent. As a final comparison – GDP per capita 2013 –: Austria – 34 200 €, Germany – 32 800 €. Now to your list what the ranking looks like in the comparison of the location. A very serious question, but one has to try to get a little more into the depth and not just to act with headlines. I will try to show this to three examples. In your urgent request, you have used the location ranking of the World Economic Forum, the Global Competitiveness Report, where we are in place 21 and, if I remember correctly, have fallen from place 16 to place 21. I have looked at this report very carefully and would like to mention three points to show that one can find quite legitimate criticism and suggestions in the same report, but on the other hand, we see different areas in which one should consciously say that. First of all: 71 economic operators were questioned as the basis of this report. I'm just saying to this sample: It is a survey of managers or entrepreneurs and, as ‘profile’ has correctly reported, it is about 71 people. These 71 persons expressed their views on various factors. 21 percent believe we have too high a tax burden. You know that when it comes to tax reform, especially when it comes to the ratio of taxation to labour and tax assets, to the relief of work and more net of gross, we have a very intense discussion. So 21 percent speak to something that is one of the central tasks of the next few weeks. 18 percent – while always thinking that the sample consists of 71 people – speak of a restrictive labour law. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Katzian.]] You know the discussion on worker protection in Austria very precisely and also the question of how it develops on solid ground to protect people in the working world. Under changed conditions, this sometimes requires further development. This is something that one can quite say as an economic operator, but this is a question of balance of interest in the Austrian discussion, in which social partnership discussion is a question of balance of interest, which is why one cannot say so clearly: If workers' protection is too restrictive, then we delete it and, if these 71 people are asked again, we have risen in the next report. So it turns out you've got to go into the depths if you're serious. If you just want to happen a little bit, you can do it, even superficially. However, if you think it seriously, you have to make the effort to go into the depths. I would like to say something from the same report: We can easily sum up 142 out of 144 places in terms of the flexibility of wage fixing – that is, for those who know it anyway: because we have collective agreements and a social partnership which covers the collective agreements, like hardly any other country, very broad areas of the world of work. This is bad for us, we are, although we are in the ranking in total then in place 21, on this question just in place 142, because we have collective agreements. See, I'm proud that Austria has collective agreements that provide protection for so many people. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We now come to the question of financing – also a point that plays a role in this report, but also in other reports and surveys. A report issued by the European Central Bank in November 2014 addresses the question of how access by small and medium-sized enterprises is to loans. In Austria, 8 percent of SMEs report problems in accessing credit. With Belgium, we have the lowest value in the euro zone! Nevertheless, I do not want to underestimate the 8 percent and believe that any job initiative must deal not only with possible investments, but also with how Austria can create funding forms – in the public, in the public and private sectors – so that these 8 percent are even less. I do not want to underestimate this 8 percent, but the average value in the euro area is 15 percent, and larger countries – including neighbours – are well over 20 percent. Thus, the European Central Bank's report on access by small and medium-sized enterprises is an example of the fact that we are much better than others and can get even better. The National Bank's report on the economic situation also says that the growth rate of loans to companies in Austria, with around 1 percent in August 2014, – and I want more growth than 1 percent – is significantly above that of the euro area, which is minus 2.2 percent. So if you go a little into the depths, you can see: As so often in life, you can divide into negative, neutral and positive all that is made in terms of expressions. Then you come to the speaker's desk, take everything negative, exaggerate it immeasurably, point it at a few fluffy headlines, go back to his place, and feel like you've made a contribution. I am of the opinion that a party's contribution, which is just as exposed to the question of the economic location as you do, and which this is always being presented to its electorate, deserves to be more intensively discussed, for example, where proposals from the Court of Auditors can be made. Mrs Moser asked the last time what has actually become of the Government Audit Court dates, where ministers and members of the Court of Auditors are going through all the reports together to clarify the question of what can be implemented as measures for more efficient administration. We have two more rounds ahead of us and then we want to make a report because I take this very seriously, especially at a time when we have a lower level of economic growth than the generations who have been active politically especially since the 1970s. I also do not expect that it will be so easy to restore economic growth at European level to 5, 6 or 7 percent in the short term, neither with fleeting sayings, nor – even this is not so simple – with content programmes, because cohesion and order in the European Union are working together to promote research, education and growth, because the construction of these instruments in the euro area must be developed only because we now – and I agree with you – are making policy at this moment in which both the instruments must be strengthened at European level, as well as efficiency improvements, de-bureaucratisation and measures on federalism must now be actively addressed at the hour and, in addition, we must pay attention to the strengths of our country. The strengths of our country are also: If I ask managers or entrepreneurs about Austria, those who have worked abroad, or those whom I visit during my stay abroad, then those of Austria, because the social system, the health system, the education system and the way people deal with each other – you can call it stability, it can be called social peace – are something that makes Austria particularly vital. Do work with us to further strengthen our strengths and improve our weaknesses!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e12486	Mr Klubobmann has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e12507	Mr President. Appreciate Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear citizens on the screens and on the visitor gallery! There is now a urgent request from NEOS on the subject of economic location for discussion. Thank you, Federal Chancellor, for inviting us to an in-depth discussion, for we want to lead them in fact. I think we have repeatedly demonstrated, last week with our tax reform concept, that we are leading the debate in depth. I can then give you the first tax reform plan of an Austrian parliamentary party. We have looked through it with external experts and have also integrated a comprehensive relief of the factor work. That's what I'm gonna talk about. [[Abg. Lightenecker: We've been doing this since...!]] However, I would like to put our challenge in the international context – you rightly mentioned Europe – before that, also in the European context. Of course, you can strain any ranking. They rightly point to the worryingly small, as far as the number of cases is concerned, poll of the World Economic Forum. But I do not want to hang on to a single survey. The problem is, Mr Bundeskanzler, that Austria is pointing in the wrong direction in all indicators. That's the thing to think about. Austria has an absolute record unemployment. An unemployment rate with a number of training participants of 456,000 at the end of December. There has been no such thing in the last two generations. One thing is clear: We are likely to put an additional 50 000 on the 456,000 in this year, just as it looks. That is to say, in 2015 half a million people will sit unemployed under the Christmas tree, with relatives affected by well over a million people. For two generations this phenomenon was not known in this soaring, galloping development. Secondly, We're crashing into all innovation rankings. There can be They quote various studies and perhaps also question some, but the picture is uniform. We fall into all standard comparisons, not only in the World Economic Forum. Today, Ernst & Young has also presented a survey of 6 000 entrepreneurs across Europe, 250 of them in Austria. There you can also say: That's not enough for me, but the picture that's drawn here confirms what we know from other surveys: Austria has a high pessimism, the Austrian middle class is the most pessimistic among 21 countries – according to the Greeks. So the Greeks are still behind us, but we won't take them as a model, I hope. In educational comparisons, we have been in bad middle ground for years. In university comparisons we are not even bad middle field. That means: We are only a leader in unemployment and in public debt, where we climb massively and quickly up, and have nodually doubled in the last ten years. And we're also getting worse at all the other corners we need to turn the thing. That's why, I think, this is already very urgent. On the one hand, you have to oppose, and I expect the Austrian Federal Government, the Federal Chancellor, the Vice Chancellor, the ÖVP, to become active at European level. It is the conservatives and it is the Social Democrats who have led us into this crisis. And it is the Conservatives and the Social Democrats who obviously cannot bring us out of this crisis. America was just as in this crisis. We're about to be in the eighth year of the crisis. The US has found the way out of the crisis, Europe has not found it. The Conservatives and the Social Democrats have not found this way. What is to be done, Mr Bundeskanzler? And you should fight for this: We should be determined to complete the common market in Europe within the EU. The common market is not complete. For example, the energy market is not complete. He is dominated by chauvinist, protectionist actors. Of course, figures do this for customers, consumers and consumers, with excessive energy prices, but of course they do, and especially for businesses. We have not managed to build a digital market. If I'm driving a cell phone across the border today, I'm still out of the Internet. That's absurd in 2015! If you are driving across state borders in the United States, of course, this does not happen to you. We have not managed to fuel this entire ICT – information and communication technology – as a growth industry, as the USA has managed, with a lot of start-ups on the way. We can't do this! We have not managed to translate the achievements of our universities into start-ups, even in Austria. Around every technical university in Austria – at least we have one in Vienna, Graz and Innsbruck – many companies should be created! But that's not happening! You have also allowed it as SPÖ and ÖVP, as social democrats and conservatives, that today it is so that the medium of 100 € profit pays 53.75 € for corporate tax and capital income tax, while IKEA, Amazon and Starbucks pay zero Euro! They're suffocating the middle class! Of course, you need to find solutions to this, and you have to step in – first at European level and then at a global level. Thus we chill our European social model and life model and also the middle class in Austria. And we have also presented solutions for this. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Final on tax reform: We have – I may then hand it over to you – a concept in which we make proposals on the expenditure page amounting to €19 billion. We are 22 billion euros above Germany in expenditure. We are over €50 billion above Switzerland. Yes, they have organized the pension system, the social system differently. If you calculate this, we will spend €25 billion over Switzerland. We have proposals of €19 billion, so we are still above Germany and Switzerland. We propose a reduction of the factor of work, we take down the total wage levies. We also have a tax discharge of over €4 billion inside. We have the tax responsibility for the federal states inside. This leads to more accountability, more responsibility culture, more accountability, the English would say. This is urgently needed in Austria: Mental reform, as Sepp Schellhorn called it. I invite you to look at these proposals. They are calculated, the proposals on the expenditure side are from the Court of Auditors, the IHS and the WIFO. The whole concept is calculated by Economica, and I believe that this is indeed a contribution to a deep debate and hopefully to a rapid renewal. Austria needs renewal. And, Federal Chancellor, a new party is needed to do this!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e12622	I call Mr Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e12643	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens! We are debating for the second time today at the request of NEOS. I kept them in the early days that their programmatics is a bit thin. Mr Strolz then gave me everything, it's a finger-dick convolut. [[Abg. Stroll: That's not all!]] - Yes, you don't have to get nervous. It is not a problem, I am glad to see what the NEOS are doing, and I want to highlight the positive things. Part of it was a magazine called “MUT. ” [[The speaker keeps a copy up to date.]] In the press release, it is stated as a leaf line – according to § 25 media law – that it is an information about the parliamentary work of the NEOS Parliamentary Club. Correct. It is also correct to say that economic policy is: ‘HEISSE LUFT’. I think this is an honest approach, Mr Strolz. There's so much hot air inside that you really wonder when you're doing it seriously. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] Now I do not want to be unfair, there are correct contributions, Mrs Colleague, it is not so thick, I could read it through in the short time. [[Continued calls and calls between the Abg. Meinl-Reisinger and Deputies of the SPÖ]] There are plans in it for a new there Austria. No, it's not about neon lighting, although it's overwriting with NEOS, it's correct statements in it. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Stroll.]] Mr. Klubobmann! On page 30 – quite correct! – is boldly printed the presentation of what Austria is, and that is much more honest than what you write in the applications here. There it says: “Austria is an attractive economic location that is characterised by a falling tax rate and clear framework conditions,” – as the Federal Chancellor has already read it to you – “to which taxpayers can rely. [[Deputies Meinl-Risinger and Strolz: This is the vision!]] People have more money at their disposal because they have to pay less taxes.” [[Abg. Vavrik: This is under the chapter Vision!]] [[Further calls to the NEOS.]] – You have no problem? – Leave it alone Your drug sharing and visions are on the left, my colleague, you have exactly that! While we still had over 45 percent of the tax and tax ratio in 2001, we are still at 43.5, falling to 43.18. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stroll.]] That means we have a falling quota. Whether the location works or not – and you do not need to come with IV numbers and studies with 71 or 250 – shows that at the unemployment rate among 28 EU countries, we are due to take the first place with only one country, namely the Federal Republic of Germany. This shows that the framework conditions in this country are among the best we have on this continent. In that case and in this form – whether vision is on it or not – your text is right. The vision is already a reality, because here a very objective and decent policy is made. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] There is no need – in your patchy words – for a delicious mixture. You have to do this in the theater, Mr Strolz, this is about serious things. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stroll.]] Yes, we are working on this reform, we are working on a red tape reduction and we are working towards a sensible framework. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Stroll.]] Now I'll come to what you want to do. If you continue reading, you have to say that the first point in the field is that you want to clear away the trade regulations – most likely no more admission criteria. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: No, it's not in it!]] - No? Which one? For the arms dealers still and for the pharmaceutical industry. [[Abg. Strolz: Where life and body are threatened!]] Only where life and body are threatened? [[Abg. Stroll: Yes!]] Let's talk about the quality of the others. Why don't you talk to people who live in England who don't have to worry about approval problems if they need an installer? – Since the Poles are gone, there is no longer any longer at all. They don't even find one that can install their water supply, they won't find any more. The reason for the quality of what we have achieved in this country – also in Germany – is a high quality system with dual training, which makes our people the best trained. But it will not teach them anything anymore when the Lord Strolz comes and says that everyone can do it anyway. In this sense, we will continue the responsible path. Where it goes, we will make reliefs and liberalisations, and where we need it to maintain good quality, we will continue to carry on with the good Austrian model. And that means: Education, quality training, and then you can work in a profession. This order I would not be disturbed by NEOS or by anyone else, it is a guarantee for the quality of our businesses. Our businesses are really good, Mr Strolz, we do not need these things! Ernst & Young himself says that this is not in line with reality, that pessimism is unfounded and that the respondents, even if only 250, are more optimistic for their own business. What does that mean? The merchant's first art is that a pity? They may also be very good, the Austrian merchants, but they are better than you represent them, and better than their reputation. This good policy in the crisis – ever higher growth rates, ever lower unemployment – is what we are continuing to do, because the opposite would be higher unemployment and worse than the European average. Since Federal Chancellor Faymann prefers me more growth than the other and less unemployment – whether purple or not.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e12813	Mr Haubner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e12834	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Appreciate Mrs Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I think we must also take this discussion to another level, namely, at the level that we have an economic challenge across Europe, which we have never had in the last thirty years. Let's take a look at the situation: For more than a decade, we have had a war in the middle of Europe for the first time. We have an economic crisis that has lasted for more than two years – going into the eighth year – and we actually have challenging tasks across Europe. I was yesterday at a major business meeting of entrepreneurs in Munich. If you look at that, it is to say, of course, that the mood in this respect is not so that now all are euphorically talking about the great mood of departure, but they say that we have to master these problems that are now together. Mr Schellhorn, I also come from a family of entrepreneurs. I've learned from my father that you don't feel sorry and don't always make things bad, but you should see that you define the problem precisely and then solve it. I think there are common proposals. One thing or another, if you look at your past, has probably been taken over from papers from the Economic Federation, which is not entirely foreign to you. So we will probably be able to contribute to the solution together and certainly also to it. It's a very hard paper. It consists of a lot of headlines, which the Federal Chancellor has already said, but headlines alone do not suffice. Negotiations are also needed in detail, and we, who successfully implement this for the economy, know how long it takes. It is not going from today to tomorrow and has not been made with a request, but you need partners, you need common goals and then you have to conduct the corresponding negotiations. I would like to tell you one thing, Mr Schellhorn: Economic chamber officials are individuals, entrepreneurs who work for their business colleagues and who, together with their partners, look at the conditions for entrepreneurs and employees who are in favour of the location, for the benefit of entrepreneurs and also for the benefit of employees. I would also like to thank the officials of the Chamber of Commerce very much. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If you have always criticized all the measures, you may also need to apply the correct comparison. If you say about the ÖBIB that that's the biggest come- back since Hermann Maier became, then I can only tell you that Hermann Maier's comeback was extremely successful. [[General hustle and bustle.]] In my opinion, we are safe with the ÖBIB on a good path and can also implement it accordingly for the location. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Unlike you, who have been with companies for the first time – I have taken your words – we have been with the companies for years and know where the shoe is pressing. Right now, bureaucracy is one of the major challenges, and that is why we have taken initiatives. The Minister of Economic Affairs and Vice-Chancellor has set up a platform to which entrepreneurs can turn and call their problems with bureaucracy. We then tried to finish the first part. Even if you represent the initiative of Mr Matznetter and of me as ridiculous – I think you also agreed to this request at the time – we could create one or another together in this respect – I say now. If you look at this success story of the Austrian site, you can see that for the third year in a row we have an export increase, that we are again export European champions, and that we owe this to entrepreneurs – the entrepreneurs who earn €6 from €10 abroad, of which 5 are in Europe. That is why, I believe, it is very important that we take a positive approach to things and strengthen the framework conditions that lead to problems. Therefore, on the points that we have already dealt with: We have reduced the number of officers. We have facilitated working time records. We have released the entrepreneurs from the reporting thresholds for statistics. So we're trying to deal with point-by-point. That is why I think we should put the other points that are still to be made on the agenda together. And there are certainly common points. “One in, one out” is certainly also an essential point in our demand table. Or: Counsel instead of punishment, very important. It is not a question of constantly punishing entrepreneurs, but of knowing where the frameworks are too narrow and how to exercise tolerance, one can advise and help. On the tax reform – which is very important – I say only one sentence: Here we prefer Schelling rather than Schelling than Schellhorn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e12911	The next item is the speech by Mr MMMag. Dr. Kassinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e12932	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! We have now heard from the Federal Chancellor that everything is fine, everything is impeccable, we are much better than others in certain selected key figures, and therefore there is no cause for concern. That's no more surprising. It would be surprising if he would not now praise his work and, so to speak, beautify the world, but say the opposite of it. But that's what we've been hearing for months and years. Of course, you can now find out indistinct figures and always find which we can better cut off compared to another country, but the fact is that the trend in Austria is falling or falling in almost all relevant parameters, for years, especially since 2007. This is no longer surprising, as at this time, 2006/2007, the government of ÖVP and SPÖ were formed, i.e. a government of the standstill. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Matznetter.]] I am trying to present a little structured now, which basic sins or cardinal errors this government has made in recent years or which states it has led to. Cardinal error number 1, sin number 1 – depending on taste –: We suffer from a misunderstanding, inefficient federalism, which produces insane double-tracks in the fields of education, health and promotion. If we compare ourselves with other countries – Switzerland or Bavaria – then we see that it works very clearly there. These countries have much less money at the same output. We have heard from colleagues Matznetter this morning that we should think about it – we are willing to sit down with you – whether one or another level of administration – we now have five – perhaps too much. We have a Member State of the Chamber, since 2007 a social partnership with well-known privileges in the form of constitutional status. Of course, we do not have a tendency for those who benefit from the privileges to deviate from their privileges even a Jota. That's clear. And as long as those who benefit from the privileges place more than 51 percent in this National Council, all the demands will not change. That's fact. Secondly, we have a bureaucracy crazy. This has already been mentioned several times and has also been done with many examples. It is already a bit strange that Dr. Leitl, as president of the Chamber of Commerce, plays out as a fighter against bureaucracy insanity. I wonder who has been in power over the last decades and who has had every opportunity to create framework conditions that do not correspond to bureaucracy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Third Cardinal Sin: We have an anti-performance tax system. It doesn't matter if you earn 1 100 € gross, 1 200, 1 800 or 2 200 € – that's about the break-even point. About the corresponding subsidies, subsidies are then redistributed so that under the rule the same for a family with two children ultimately comes out. We have – Cardinal error number 4 – and that is fact, a globally non-competitive cost structure for industry and small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. You know that. In particular, the labour factor is simply too high with the enormous additional wage costs. We could also discuss energy costs. In international comparison, we are also too high in many areas. This results in a much too high tax rate – whether 43 or 45 percent – compared to Germany with 40 percent. Only the difference from this tax rate is € 15 billion per year. We wonder where these €15 billion are evaporating. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Cardinal error number 5: We have a migration into the social system, which also costs billions. We're just giving false incentives. At the same time, we have unemployment rates that explode. At the same time, we open the labour market for EU countries, possibly also for non-EU countries. We are sending out false signals here, please, and one must also say, especially to those who come to us, of which we know that only 10 percent are actually being persecuted and the asylum stocks are being fulfilled, but the remaining 90 percent are coming to us for economic reasons. I don't blame them. I blame those who create the conditions for the signals and say that they should come to us because they flow milk and honey, which they then in stock. stick and they don't know what to do with them. There you have to think once sine ira et studio, whether there are no more intelligent possibilities. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Cardinal error number 6: We have built up a huge debt in recent years. I've picked this out, or it's also in the request: In 1974 it was 16 percent of GDP, now it is over 80 percent, 280 billion euros. We pay around €8 billion alone in interest rates. That means we owe ourselves to the coming generations. We have, Cardinal Error No. 7, in the field of national banking – that will still be explained in the relevant committees, but I am now putting up the hypothesis – anything but a happy hand. That costs us billions. How much more precise it will be. Cardinal error number 8: We're lying to the pension system all the time. The pension system in this form works after the payment process – that is, we know – that is, those in the working life finance the pensions of those in retirement. It is therefore not always possible to pretend that pensioners would have been saved from the system and would then have a right to their pension from these savings. That's the charging procedure. And one must be so honest and say that we are currently paying another 8 billion for the ASVG-pensions and for the civil servants' pensions. That's 18 billion € each year – that is, hypo in the maximum range. If you look at demographic developments, you can see that the problem will not be reduced, but will become massively more intense. Making yourself here and saying that the pensions are secured is a little bit thin and a little thin. Cardinal error No 9: the whole area EU, Euro, ECB, ESM, which disappears to billions in the stability mechanism to support whatever – from Euro-crisis countries et cetera. We've already lost the relationship completely. Just to remember: We have already transferred over 2 billion for the ESM alone and signed for 19 billion. So the figures that are now being ventilated in the framework of the grandly announced tax reform seem like peanuts. This is expected in millions of categories, and at the same time we sign €19 billion with a dash and without drawing with the eyelash. We liberals, of course, voted against it at that time. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Cardinal error number 10 concerns our diamonds, the future: education. We crash in all education rankings, in the PISA studies, in the university rankings – the F&E quotas are a disaster – in the innovation rankings et cetera. We should really do something about this: a reform of the school administration, the subjects of school autonomy – this is also a subject that can get the consent of the liberals – the whole topic of depoliticization of schools, the whole topic of competence of teachers, teacher/edagogue training et cetera, the output orientation in the school system. An output orientation is nothing bad and belongs to much more focused here. This is simply not possible in the current state, because the grains are apportioned accordingly. Eleven Cardinal Sin: TTIP, CETA will develop into a cardinal sin, especially for the middle class. I'm setting up the hypothesis here – we'll see if I'm right in a few years: especially for the middle class, but also for the traditionally small-structured agriculture in Austria. If that comes, these groups will still be hard times
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e13032	Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to remind you of the following: They wanted to make another request. You have only a little more time to speak.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e13069	Then I'll split the twelfth point. This would affect Russian sanctions. But at another time, we can also talk about the impact that this really has on the economy. I can't just say, We're making sanctions. There are already the latest figures – which are disastrous – about what these sanctions on losses are bringing to the Austrian export industry, which was so much praised earlier. We're bringing
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e13093	Mr President, I am sorry that this is not going to happen anymore, because, unfortunately, after 10 minutes, the speaking time in this debate is over. You can't talk anymore. But there is certainly another speaker who is willing to take over this task. [[In the case of the FPÖ, please take a look at the box that leaves the speaker's desk. Kassinger.]] [[Abg. Matznetter: failed on a simple task!]] [[Abg. Wöginger: The Cardinal Sins were too long!]] [[Abg. Matznetter: Better a Cardinal would have been cut!]] [[Abg. Wöger: Yes! At least we'd have some of that!]] Mrs Lichtenecker has now come to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e13174	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, Federal Chancellor, you are already right, Austria is a good location with many dedicated companies, talented and diligent employees. Nevertheless, it is a fact that we are losing more and more of the ground. And a cardinal problem is a mixture of standstill, blockade, and – which is particularly dangerous – self-satisfaction. The self-satisfaction of this federal government, which is probably also the reason for the fact that today the Minister of the Interior honors us at the business location debate. [[Abg. Rädler: What was that?]] Let me take a few points out of the issues raised today by you, Mr Bundeskanzler, to prove that Austria is not so bad at all. You said that the unemployment rate in Austria is relatively low compared to the European average. You're right. And you are right that youth unemployment is relatively low compared to the European average. Nevertheless, it cannot and must not be relativized that 55 000 young people in this country are without work. That's a huge theme! Young people need their chances! And an essential foundation in which this government has for years, for decades failed, is education policy – the education policy that you have failed to do. This is one of the issues that must be addressed first. They have addressed the research rate and its rise. That's right, but this must not be misleading about stagnating for years, which is about 2.8 percent. And above all: What was the goal? – I can remind you: The government programme aims at a research rate of 3.76 percent. The Federal Government has decided in 2011 a research strategy whose content is also that. Just, we're far from actually reaching that, and that's a failure. Mr Bundeskanzler, you have said that the lending is quite appropriate, and have spoken the problems a little less than they actually are. Federal Chancellor, go out to the companies! Talk to this one! They have this problem. One-person companies, small and medium-sized enterprises, exactly those we need as support in the regions, have the problem. And if you do not experience it in the personal discussions with the entrepreneurs, you can also read this in the mid-term report 2014 of the Federal Government, for example: The average of new loans in Austria projected for 2014 is the lowest since 2009. – That alone is a symbol. Just as the various charges, security requirements and interest rates for companies have increased, it is also a problem. And there too this federal government failed. For years, we have been discussing a model so that citizens can also participate in businesses – in a way that it is simply cost-effective and legally secure for all parties involved. What's happened so far? – A mini throw, and since then nothing has gone on. There was the announcement that there will be something in June. There was the announcement that there will be something in December. We landed now, and one thing I must say quite clearly: Speaking of an opposition scream, Mr. Federal Chancellor, that's not possible! The opposition is here to draw attention accordingly to things, to make proposals and to invite you to take a progressive step forward at last, to the important issues in which action is needed. [[Congratulations on Members of the Greens.]] When it comes to strengthening the economic location, it is also about supporting businesses, namely all those companies that are responsible for the economy, creating fair jobs, and still working resource-savingly. This is precisely what we are talking about, and we also need a rethinking, and we need reforms to do so, and we need framework conditions. One of the conditions is that massive investment in infrastructure must be made in the future. These are not only education and research, but also broadband networks. That too has been dragged away. This is particularly important for rural regions – for rural regions and the ICT economy. Of course, it is also important to invest in the areas of environment and climate protection. There we are far behind, but we know that we have companies that are highly competent. And, of course, when it comes to framework conditions for companies, it is also a matter of creating good framework conditions for one-person companies, for example in the case of social security. Mr. Bundeskanzler, it is not up to companies to pay €36.4 million in late payment interest for the social security institution in 2013 alone, as shown by an up-to-date answer to questions, at an interest rate of more than 8 percent. That's not what it's all about. The companies need this money themselves to invest! And what does the government program say? – The government programme includes: Reducing interest rates on social security. What happened? - Nothing. There is also a need for massive action. And it's about acting now and not waiting, because time is running out of it. We need these conditions! We need them to create jobs in order to shape society and also secure the future. And the future is only ensured by the courage to move forward. Now we have the problem of finally managing the past, managing the standstill and forgetting the future. We will ensure that we pay attention to the future, do not forget the future and in any case act proactively here and take the appropriate steps.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e13221	Mrs Klubobfrau Dr. Nachbaur. I have set 10 minutes of speaking time, which is also the maximum time for a debate on a urgent request. - Please, Mrs. Klubobfrau.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e13242	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! And dear taxpayers! We know that since the government under Chancellor Faymann, we have been falling in all rankings since 2008. It is of particular interest to: The SPÖ always likes to point to the bowl cabinet. There were indeed some amazing characters, which anyone can evaluate as they would like, but one is also clear: Today's government is still living by the reform and economic policy of then, just as the government of Mrs. Chancellor Merkel still lives by Schröders's politics, as can be read in the renowned "trade sheet". Reasonable economic policy can therefore theoretically be made by each party if it only uses its home mind and is also willing to display a certain amount of courage and possibly use the savings fund at its own clientele. But this government has first and foremost its own power and its own client policy in mind, and especially for the SPÖ that means: more redistribution. However, we have already exceeded the limits of the redistribution in our country. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The OECD says that nowhere in the world is being redistributed as much as in Austria. There are only 1.9 million net taxpayers here, for which there are 3.6 million net taxpayers. Nevertheless, the class struggle will be proclaimed here. But the class struggle does not lead to more prosperity, but only to more envy. Rather, what we need is the freedom to create prosperity, not only the upper tens of thousands, but the broad majority of the Austrian population. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The state, however, unfortunately takes away almost everything. It has become quite impossible in this country to build up a small wealth through hard work and thus to free itself from the dependence of this state system with the grants. In Austria, it has become much easier to demand performance than to achieve performance. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] That's why we need more performance justice, not just distribution justice. Work has to pay for it again! The government must understand that it must once save with itself and the thick state and not always with the people who are then provided with alms-like social benefits. For this, the city of Vienna is the very best example. The city of Vienna is Austria's largest property owner with 220 000 municipal apartments, keeping half a million people dependent. [[Abg. Rossmann: Better than depending on real estate sharks!]] – and on expensive dependence, because nowhere is living as expensive as in Vienna. One sucks off the tenants and prevents the creation of property. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Property is punished in this country, it already welcomes the higher basic tax. For this inflated state apparatus, just never enough money is available, and to arrive at more money, in particular the SPÖ always plays on the envy piano: The rich have to pay! But let's take a look at the statistics: The top 10 percent pay almost 52 percent of all wage and income tax benefits. So the rich pay yes! And don't forget: The so-called rich usually school a great entrepreneurial risk and create jobs, namely jobs that bring tax money. If the state does something, then the tax money will cost. That is why I would like to thank everyone who creates a private job and the diligent employees of these entrepreneurs. Thank you. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] In times of record unemployment, it is the very last thing we need to milk the tax cows to death and hunt them out of the country. By the way, France offers an impressive negative example. Economists have calculated that the now rightly abolished rich tax has only washed €420 million into the budget, while at the same time there was an estimated money outflow of €75 billion. You have to imagine this: Revenue of 420 million – the capital for this is down: minus 75 billion! The rich are wandering away! The result is high debt, low growth and a huge government debt in France. France has more debt to the ECB than Greece. In Austria, it somehow went down in the media that all of this was abolished again. Maybe you didn't want to give this Dutch plea too much space. But the rich tax was at least a bureaucratic and very, very expensive idea. I hope some politicians with us learn something about it. [[Complementary of the Abg. Dietrich.]] I also find the calculation models from the point of view of the union and the Chamber of Labour very unscrupulous and unfair, because state pension expectations are not included in their models at all. So if a self-employed person saves € 1 million in the course of decades to have money for his retirement, then the Reich tax club should meet him fully, while a government servant or trade union official should be paid his pension million or millions in monthly instalments, where, of course, no wealth tax is payable. That's really very unfair. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] And what the inheritance tax is: If you take out the assets you have to do in order not to permanently bury the economic location, then its collection costs much more than it brings – except that it may satisfy some kind of envy complex. Unfortunately, social justice has become an ideological fight concept to win elections. This is a calculation model – quite simply: Two million payments for four million, so put on the four million. It is distributed according to your ideas until nothing is available that could be distributed. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Instead of arousing the class struggle, we need solutions. Taxation for entrepreneurs investing in and creating jobs in Austria must be significantly reduced. We need a lot more investors and entrepreneurs in Austria, especially in times of record unemployment. The 1.9 million net taxpayers cannot keep everyone permanently, and not everyone can be employed at the union either. We have let EcoAustria calculate a good model, namely: One reduces the most anti-growth taxes, wage and income taxes and corporate tax for five years in three-percent steps – that is, 15 billion by 2019. Almost half of this tax reduction is financed by increased investment, increased consumption and many newly created jobs – according to Dr. Schuh from EcoAustria, up to 130 000 jobs. The rest can also be obtained through long-term administrative and system reforms. And the most important thing in it: We say that the employees should be involved in the profit, which they help achieve. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] But the trade union colleagues do not want to do that, because that would be too much of their right to exist, which was already given, of course, in the past. What is happening to Austria's economic location is, of course, also relevant to what is happening at European level. The ECB's decision to buy state bonds marod countries will have a serious impact on our country. Contrary to all promises, Austrian taxpayers will be liable for Greek, Spanish, Italian and French debts, and the National Council will not even have a word to speak. I would like Mr. Novotny to clearly support the head of the Deutsche Bundesbank Weidmann in his protest, instead of being diplomatically silent. The EU must not become a transfer union – here we can do what we want for the economic location, it will not be useful. Something else at European level: I propose to suspend Basel III temporarily, because this bureaucratic 5 000-page conglomerate of regulations is an SME killer. The real economy needs to be able to get to credit, and we also need a functioning equity market in Austria. We have broken money on the savings book, which is constantly losing in purchasing power, and this should be favoured if it flows into unlisted domestic companies. Above all, our young entrepreneurs urgently need capital. Another final word to the representatives of the left half of the empire: Please leave your fingers on the hard-worked money of Austrian citizens and see that you are finally putting the thick state on a diet, even if it may not be your constituency clientele! [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and representatives of the ÖVP]] And my final sentence: Please do not think of yourself and the next choice, but rather of your children and all our children who want to live here, as far as possible in an economically flourishing country that respects property, does not go into debt and above all has a good social system for those people who really need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e13368	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Alm. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e13389	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr Bundeskanzler, I am not quite sure whether you wanted to quote Leibniz or Voltaire when you spoke of the best of all worlds in our economic conditions. One meant something more serious than the other, it was meant to be satire. And as it is in the best of all worlds in the sense of Voltaire, so it probably meant Josef Schellhorn. He has not only considered the good things for which entrepreneurs are very responsible and who they are working on, so that the country works, but of course he has also considered the things that in our country, in Austria, do not work so well in economic policy. Employment is expensive, but certainly not because wages in Austria would be exorbitantly high, but the pay-dependent taxes and taxes it is. Many companies simply cannot afford to hire the people they would like to employ, and this also helps to ensure that unemployment numbers do not decrease at least. Of course, the solution is not to cut the wages – net wages – that does the cold progression by itself. The problem is the taxes, and the tax rate is around 45 percent at record level in Austria. We will soon have half a million unemployed. And, Federal Chancellor, if you tell us that we now have the highest number of employees in absolute numbers, then I may have to make a small reference to the percentage account. We have also had a population increase of about a million people over the last 30 years, and of course you have to use the percentage values. However, the State cannot afford to buy jobs with the taxes mentioned. In Austria there is a state support landscape that is well developed. Mr Hammer will probably be using it right now, that not all that is referred to as a promotion is also one – that is right, one must admit this point to him of course – but we still have a very, very high rate of funding in the European comparison, and there is, of course, a potential for savings. There is no point in disbursing these subsidies if half of the taxes and charges are immediately returned to any employee for whom this support is applied. So if the Republic emptys my pockets with the right hand, it will not be useful much if it plugs alms back to me with the left hand, and that also selectively. In international competition we are actually losing ground, this finding has come from several speakers of the opposition. Of course – where did he go? – you can now select a ranking and take it as an example, I think that was in our case the Global Competitiveness Index or the World Competitiveness Index – no, it was the Global Competitiveness Index – but there are, of course, many other indices, as Matthias Strolz and Ruperta Lichtenecker have justifiably said and Mr. Kassinger has actually applied. [[the speaker looks at the empty square of the Federal Chancellor]] [[Call the ÖVP:Report!]] We have a Global Innovation Index – we have fallen from 15th to 23rd place. World Competitiveness Index: From 11 to 23; Global Competitiveness Index: From 16 to 21 – Austria slides everywhere. Interesting is also a slip in the corruption perception index, which also means that corruption has increased in perception. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jewel beater.]] All these indices together will of course already draw a realistic picture of the situation in Austria. I would like to share this with the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany in the absence. [[the speaker puts an expression on the place of the Federal Chancellor]] [[Interlocutory remark by State Secretary Steßl.]] He certainly also has many other studies that complement this from his side. So what can we do to maintain competitiveness in Austria? – We can only rely on one thing, and that is innovation. We are a high-paid country, we cannot afford to give up innovation. Globalisation, digitalisation reduces these innovation cycles. Pressure's rising. Many think only of research when it comes to innovation. That's right, but that's only half the rent. Innovation must not be research for the drawer, innovation must claim to be on the market. In this case, the market is really the only measure of degree. Market maturity needs to be achieved quickly, and innovation also creates jobs. This innovation is becoming increasingly rare in companies, but very often in start-ups. It is therefore worth thinking about how Austria and in particular Vienna can become a hub for such start-ups, for young companies. So what can be done? – The most important point is certainly financing, which is the biggest lever. Young companies need money, start-ups need money to make products and services ready to market quickly. Organic growth takes too long, in most cases it is not possible at all. There are no more loans from banks, so private venture capital from investors who are willing to take on this entrepreneurial risk. This can be distributed to small investors – then we speak of crowd investment – that can be individual investors – so-called business angels who get into these companies at an early stage, but that can of course be fund solutions. In any case, it needs a modern market for risk capital, and the legal framework is simply not up to date. We have been waiting over a year for the completion of the template for a crowdfunding law. It's working on it, I think. I've already been given a draft. Second, we want real incentives for private investors, private venture capital. Today, we have submitted a request for a real-economy investment exemption, i.e. that investments should be tax deductible or preferential up to € 100 000. That would be a noticeable relief, which would give young companies and start-ups in Austria a real boost. Even better, of course, would be a real tax credit, as it exists in the UK, in the United Kingdom, with the Seed Enterprise Investment Scheme. But we're still a bit far away from that. Of course, it also needs further repairs – repairs in the Alternative Investment Fund Manager Act, a law that was designed far too restrictively in Austria. We want Austria to reverse the trend in innovation rankings. That's a measurable goal we can work on.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e13456	Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Grossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e13477	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! After my previous speaker has been so ensnared in indices and key figures, I would like to add a brief replica to Mrs Klubobfrau Nachbaur. Mrs. Colleague! Under black and blue we had the relatively highest unemployment in times of the high economy and were in the lower middle of the EU ranking. Now, in times of the international economic crisis, under Chancellor Werner Faymann, we have the lowest unemployment rate in the EU and, above all, in youth unemployment. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Reciprocating.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] But I would like to give my colleague, Ruperta Lichtenecker, the right thing if she thinks that everyone and every single unemployed person is one or one too much. – Of course, this is a task for all of us, but exactly the comparison with past governments makes us sure that we are on the right path. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hairer]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the future of a country is written in classrooms or in all educational institutions, because education ideally does not start with school and does not stop school in the sense of lifelong, life-long learning. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler]] Education is the key to economic success and – and this can not be emphasized often enough in times like this – is also the key to social and social peace. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Hairer]] Education ensures that all people can share in the opportunities of life and their suitability and inclinations are accordingly promoted so that they can get into society as best they can – regardless of the place of residence and money of the parents. So, please, if the applicants were to take their own concerns seriously and not just to produce hot air here, they would have to go ahead. We cannot afford to give up any gift to my ladies and gentlemen. We all need, whether technical, linguistic, craftsmanship, artistic talent or other talents or key qualifications. We need all of this so that people can get involved in working life, family and society as best they can and can find themselves. In your motion for a resolution, you mentioned education as a keyword, but then it was rather shortened and reduced to a few - I would say - no-na-details, which are some of the already lived reality, such as the demand to bring companies to school. I can tell you a personal example: My 27-year-old son has already established a company as a HAK student over a school project. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kitzmüller.]] My younger son, as an HTL student, is also involved in school partnerships with companies. So please, that's really nothing new! [[Abg. Strolz: In the vocational schools it is often!]] These are public schools and these are substitutes for many, many schools throughout Austria that do great things. Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig and I have just attended several BAKIP classes from Amstetten, and their students have anxiously told us that she is incredibly disturbed that the education system in Austria is being so mistreated. [[Abg. Kitzmüller: And who is Education Minister?]] This is by no means fair to the services provided daily in schools by all school partners! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This hurts the individual and it also harms the economic location of Austria, because what should an investor think about the labour force looking for if one's own policy makes the system so bad?! – even though there is definitely a need for reform there and there. [[Abg. Singer: This is your policy!]] We have now been able to experience the following together in the Netherlands – the teachers of the political groups were there –: It was a surprise that the children were already divided between us at the age of ten. This early segregation is a big problem, is a vulnerability in our education system, and as soon as the coalition partner is ready, we will quickly change it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] This is really the case, because we are losing gifts, because we are losing talents, but we really need to promote them in our education system as much as possible. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singer.]] So let us not close our eyes to the positive, but let us also look at the problem areas. – In this sense: Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e13620	Mr Ing. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Schools. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e13656	Mrs. State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen in the House! Today, at the request of Mr Schellhorn, we are discussing the subject of economics: But that's not really interesting for him, because he's not here at all. He has come, as one does not actually do it as an entrepreneur, “gave orderly gas”, all slandered, functionaries called parasites, and now, where the discussion comes to a reasonable and quiet level, he has disappeared. [[Abg. Wheelers: NEOS business friends!]] Tell him a nice greeting! I'm also a chamber officer: If he wants to, he can apologize to me, if not, he can apologize to Mr Matznetter, Vice-President of the Chamber of Commerce, and by the way, I do not really think such a behaviour is appropriate for us in the house. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wheeler: Exactly!]] We owe a lot to the social partners in Austria. Recent studies show that in recent years economic growth has been due to a share of 0.56 percent of the amount of conflict in Austria in such a way that the common good is in the foreground and not the profile of individual political exponents. This has helped us, it has shown over the years that it is the right way, and this is what we owe to people who make themselves available as officials. These are people who do something in their lives, show something, stand for a choice, and then take on the task of proper management of the institution of this social partnership institution – in this case the Chamber of Commerce, with us the Chamber of Agriculture. These people make sure that the members, the customers, so with us the chamber members, get what they really need, and with us they know that they get it. The staff of our institutions and our homes are violent, and it is interesting that the paper presented by Mr Schellhorn is a paper that I know in substantial parts from other social partners. Well – he can write down, so it won't have been that bad. Ladies and gentlemen, this is about economic sentiment and economics, and it certainly belongs to each other being successful. I can't complain on the one hand that there is no economic growth, and on the other hand, I'm starting to say: There's a money I've got to take it away from him now! [[Abg. Fekter: Right!]] It is high time that we respect that personal economic success can be a goal, and whoever succeeds, he should also be pleased about it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Wheeler: Economic Party!]] I know that colleagues from all over the house believe that we are only going to get on with performance – I can tell you that in our agriculture this is a topic. We have shown a lot in recent years and have also done a lot politically. We have implemented the common agricultural policy, which is now being implemented, and our minister presented a very comprehensive rural development programme before Christmas as one of the first three that has managed Europe at all. I am very, very grateful to him personally, because he and his employees have done something powerful – a performance that should also be recognized, because this is the basis for our implementation in agriculture, and many businesses and people benefit from it again. [[Abg. Steinbichler:..., then I ask you something today!]] Last year alone, dairy cooperatives invested €125 million in order to be able to present our quality products on the European market in the future. Our farmers will invest more than €600 million in the current year, because we will invest farmers then, if we believe it's right, and not if anyone tells us: Leave it! or: Try it! or: Don't do it! - We know for ourselves what we're doing. We are planning properly, and we have the aid of the Chamber of Agriculture. That is why it is very important and right that we appreciate what is done out there. Therefore: Thank you to all those who trust in something in a difficult time! Thank you to all those who invest! Thank you to all those in this country who are looking to see that things are going well because they want to do something and do something! That is why I wish everyone all the best and would like to thank Mr Bundeskanzler for wanting to significantly increase the efficiency of the administration. I have also been to the Commission on Deregulation, and I know that we have important things to do here, which the entrepreneurs, the farmers, the self-employed, but also everyone else are waiting for. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e13758	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Haider. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e13779	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! After this trip to the agricultural election campaign by the president of the Chamber of Agriculture Ing. Schools with a very open presentation of chamber functionary preference, including an apologies to Members, I am almost pleased that Mr Kassager had not had time to present this motion for a resolution before. [[Abg. Lopatka: Go! Watch out a little! That's an insult!]] That is why I am now bringing in the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kassager. [[Quoted print version removed]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, if the words ‘Economic policy’, ‘Austria’ and ‘criticism’ are used, then the hits come up relatively far above with an article in the ‘Economic paper’ entitled: “There is no economic policy in Austria”. If you look at this a little more closely, you can do it a little bit, not just because of the €400 million budget of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, no, you just need to look at it: What is the Minister for Economic Affairs concerned with? He obviously has nothing else to do at present but to force and force a completely unnecessary smoking ban on himself by a prophylactic neo-health minister. This has completely unnecessarily broken the debate, and this ban on smoking only leads to 20 to 30 percent of restaurants, pubs and beesls – just like in Ireland, Great Britain and Germany. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is the result of the activities of the Minister for Economic Affairs, but that alone is not enough. There is also a red tape sample called Allergen Information Regulation on the host, in addition to the loads of recent years. I recall, for example, the tougher application rules that lead to the retiring granny not even being able to help the host quickly for an hour when a bus with guests appears in the guest garden. No, then you'll be in the crime with a foot. Or: I recall the cash movement regulation, the removal of energy reimbursement, the inconsistency of the ticket, which really only has a negative impact on tourism, or the completely unnecessary resolution, the so-called employment manipulation fee, or the fact that drinking money still has to be imagined! – even if they are not even paid out, i.e. fictitious drinkers who are subject to social insurance obligations in that country. And, and, and so. Still straining and nurturing! It is still not possible in this country to reduce the delay of registration to the actual duration of use. The hoteler, who builds a sauna, has to explain this depreciation for at least 15 years, and if he has an ungood financial officer who says that the part of the building is, then he has to extend it to 35 years. I would like to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs to sit in a 15-year-old sauna when he's in a hotel at the ÖVP clausur. At the latest every 8 years, a sauna will be exchanged, and as a result, the delay will also be adjusted. – These are things that the Minister of Economic Affairs is not interested in, he does not! Let us look at what the Minister of Finance is doing! – This has not occurred in recent months, except that it has scared the tourism industry, for example, with expressed considerations about an increase in VAT – completely counterproductive and contrary to Austria’s economic location! The introduction of the sparkling wine tax fits very well into the picture, which not only brings nothing but also costs even more than it brings – thus only again burdens on the wine growers and for the sect producers. On the other hand, this inconvenient federal government is also joining the Russian sanctions, which not only cause trade in the city centre of Vienna, but also serious damage to tourism and heavy revenue losses. In short: With the highest rate of tax – a record rate of 45 percent, Mr Alm said earlier – this government stands for nothing but the loss of real wages, the expropriation of the savers, the cold progression and the highest tax rate of all time, together with the highest debt of all time and with an unemployment army of 500,000 people. I would like to congratulate you on this result.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e13842	The application submitted is sufficiently supported, properly submitted and therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e13910	Mr Köchl. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e13934	Dear ladies and gentlemen! Appreciated spectators on the gallery and in front of the televisions! Mr. Roman Haider of the FPÖ has put it to the fore. The FPÖ position is so to speak on Google’s “Economic Policy Austria – Criticism”. – This is your position! It's a little thin in my eyes. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] We have heard quite a lot of words today: for example, growth offensive. This would probably also come about if I had to create an economic concept with Google. Or: Flexibility. It would probably come out if I were just Google to do it. So: We should get away from this policy of keywords! [[Abg. Neubauer: Then finally get away from it!]] Next example: Flexibility of working time. – What do you want? Do you want to work more than 24 hours a day, as is almost the state in China and Bangladesh? We Greens have the approach that social security is defined not only by entrepreneurship but also by employee relations. Solid employee relations are just as important to us as independence and entrepreneurship. I would have said this in advance. But we agree that we have a fundamental problem in Austria, namely: If one or one comes with an idea when one or one lights a candle, it often comes to the situation that there are five or ten people who want to blow out a candle. We definitely have a problem. I would like, since NEOS have put this on the tape today, to work out a little the differences between Green and NEOS. NEOS always come with the approach “less state! ” The Greens would rather say: The state is important, but right in the right place! The Call for fewer states per se does not find my approval, because what comes out of it is seen in the United States of America. It sounds very attractive at the first moment to say you lower the taxes Yes, you can lower the taxes, but at the end there is no money left to flick the road holes. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stroll.]] The model you'd introduce here would be to lower taxes and then go from house to house and ask people: Do you give every $1,000 to renew the road laterals as well? – That would be about Your model! [[Abg. Strolz: There are also schools in Switzerland!]] Mr Strolz, Switzerland is not the best example in my view, because in Switzerland – and I have been talking to a Swiss entrepreneur for a long time – it is a matter of popular voting in the municipality: Are we willing to raise taxes so that a children's playground is built, or not?, and most of the time the pensioners – it's unfortunately the same – are the youth, and there is no children's playground. [[Abg. Stroll: And with us, isn't that how it is? - That's absurd!]] This is already a concept of democracy, with which I am very difficult to do and which does not fall under solidarity from my definition. If you want to sum up the positions of the various parties in terms of economic policy, you get the following result: In my opinion, there is the basic attitude at the SPÖ: Prohibitions are all that is not expressly permitted! At the FPÖ one has the impression that their basic attitude to economic policy is characterised by the sentence: We don't want aliens!, where, of course, strangers are everything they don't understand. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ.]] Economic policy is based on the following basic principles: Freedom for friends and barriers to others! [[Abg. Lopatka: Go!]] What Mr Grasser has carried on as ÖVP Minister of Finance, you can still read daily in the newspaper. And the Stronach team has the basic attitude: Whoever has the gold makes the rule! We cannot share this opinion with Greens either. [[Abg. Lopatka: Mr. colleague, the carnival is coming first, isn't it?- Oh, my God!]] If This is where you claim: Less laws! - Yes. However, the demand for “less laws! ” also requires significantly more brain use. There are beautiful examples where you have moved a lot with a law, for example in Germany with the Renewable Energy Act. There we could have invented 100 laws in Austria and granted 100 individual grants, which would not bring so much. A well thought-out renewable energy law has triggered innovations and investments in Germany. But there are also examples where I mean that we could also learn something from the United States of America: That's the startup culture. It is easier to say: I have an idea and get a start-up capital to implement this idea! This is not so widespread in Austria. In Austria there is still a bit of a retro hold. I would like to illustrate this by means of an example. And that's... If 10 people get together and say that they have an idea, they give out 10 stock notes, everyone holds 10 percent of an idea, then they actually have a share in an idea, and if this idea gets big, if this idea becomes successful, then you can earn something, but if the idea doesn't grow up, then no one has anything of it. I have just invented the stock company without mentioning that at the outset, and I am not talking about stock exchange listing at all, I am not talking about it at all now, and I am not talking about profit. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neubauer]] In Austria, there is almost a defence reflex when I come with the word “equipment company” because I do not yet link stock exchange listing with stock company and not yet fraud. Next Topic: Crowdfunding. – Crowdfunding is about facilitating the liability of brochures, so it is easier to reach capital without expensive prospectuses. The Greens have proposed 3 million as a border, so that this sum is increased, the NEOS only one million. We agree, however, when it comes to finding reliefs at the Red and White Red Card when it comes to rolling people out the red carpet to create jobs in teamwork. Unfortunately, there are currently problems. For example: If the programmer from India does not get the red-and-white red card because he does not meet the criteria, then the whole team cannot work. We have a number of problems in tax law at present; Bruno Rossmann will do so in detail. From our point of view, we have in the complexity a tax right for manufacturers, which is far too complex. We have made the proposal to create an integrated tariff, to combine social security contributions with income tax, at least to make the whole thing transparent. In the run-up to the Economic Chamber elections, we have repeatedly made important proposals, such as a reduction in additional wage costs. 308 million € over Chamber II is definitely too much. As I said, there are approaches. However, I would also like to address very specific problems because I am talking to one-person entrepreneurs every day. There are some small construction sites. [[turning to the government bank]] Unfortunately, the Chancellor is not here, the entire government bank is a black hole, but I can't change that either. An example: If you are a new self-employed person without a commercial license and if you exceed the insurance limit and that is not up to 31. In December, you will receive 9.3 percent penalty from the SVA. This does not concern micro-enterprises, but only the new self-employed without a business permit. This would mean in the current situation, a new self-employed person, who is a few hundred euros below his insurance limit, would have to be in Austria on 31 January. December with a paper in front of the fax machine and see if another account entrance comes in, so that, if so, he will fax it before “Dinner for One”, just before New Year’s Eve, for otherwise he will receive a penalty. I think that's completely non-reality. We have repeatedly referred to the minimum contribution basis for self-employed persons: She definitely belongs to lowered. It can't be that you pay 200 € per month, even if you don't make almost any sales. We've always discussed the sick money, that's important to us. At present it will only become self-employed from 43. Payed day and is measured at 28 €. There's a sick leave from 43. And during the doctor's round, she chews on her fingernails. Since, if you are sick, you still have to pay the contributions to industrial social security, it may happen that you have to deliver 36 € daily health insurance and pension insurance and get 28 €. Thus, in the current legal situation, the sickness benefit can mean a loss of €8 per day, and it will only be starting from 43. Day paid. We also address the trade order. I have repeatedly brought many examples of where reforms are needed. This includes not only the gardener who needs another commercial license for cemetery gardening to be allowed to pour the flowers. There are plenty of other absurdities. We have looked up for the Trafikanten: Only 30 percent hold a commercial license, 70 percent of the traffics need several. We make the proposal that the basic amount should only be collected once and that the contribution should be 100 €. This is an important and legitimate demand in the run-up to the Economic Chamber elections, which is also constantly being addressed by the Green Economy. And we have topics, such as the light GmbH, which are still not finally clarified. So we have a number of construction sites, where it would be necessary to make reforms here in Austria, as we have heard today, in the sense of entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship, and I would like to ask you to carry out these reforms quickly, otherwise some people will be running out of it out loud. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e14068	Mrs Lintl spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e14090	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Location policy in Austria is hardly more than a policy of standstill. Laws and legal standards in all local authorities are negotiated by politicians, officials, chamber and union officials and not by economic experts. We need competitive and forward-looking legal framework for companies in Austria and for their employees. We need a reduction in the burden of bureaucracy. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Especially for the many small and medium-sized enterprises, for the one-person companies, this is important. Although their start in the free economy is generally desired and facilitated by various mini-promotions, after a few years at the latest, the big end to the new self-employment comes when over-dimensioned social security funds and the Fiscus demand due payments and when more time is lost for bureaucratic conditions than for entrepreneurship and innovative ideas. Austria's economic location can be made much more attractive for private investors. This requires an innovative location and technology policy for industry as well as for applied research, for example by promoting cluster education for producers, suppliers and research institutions, where a value chain is created through common favourable location factors, through the expansion of broadband technology or by easier access to loans. In particular, to promote research and technology is recommended, but not through inefficient funding policies by means of casting cans, but rather specifically. It is necessary to reduce the administrative burden, simplify the laws and reduce the tax burden. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] In particular, the negative examples of the euro crisis countries show the importance of a slim state and a good general location policy for growth. The urgent need for action, ladies and gentlemen, is at present also due to the dramatic consequences of the currency credit situation with the Swiss franc. Some 6 000 of the total of 150 000 Austrian households are still affected by the impact of the Franken upgrading this year. On average, they will have to pay €33,000 more for their franc credit. Here, a unique support from the Minister of Finance in the form of tax advantages for those affected who convert their franc credit into a Euro-credit would be required. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Banks, which have usually not sufficiently informed their customers about the risk of foreign currency credit in good time, would also have to help. [[Abg. Jewellery: Do you know what size this is?- Oh, my God!]] Most desperate borrowers can hardly vote this extra burden. They would be helped by such a step, and the economy would benefit from possible consumption expenditure. But back to the business location. I appeal urgently to you, Mrs. State Secretary, Steßl, and to the entire Federal Government: Finally, end this policy of difficulties for entrepreneurs and investors and optimize the framework conditions for Austria's economic location! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e14144	Mr Hable has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e14166	Mr President. High house! Mrs. State Secretary! Estimated citizens in the gallery and in front of the screens! The business location of Austria is the subject of this debate, is the subject of our urgent request. However, we do not only want to criticise the Federal Government's economic and financial policy, but we also want to offer constructive solutions in NEOS tradition. A central pillar of our solution proposals is the NEOS tax reform concept. And a tax reform must also be approached again with a large portion of honesty. Why? – Because in the previous discussion this honesty is very often missing. All the proposals, which I have heard in particular from the Federal Government, have left open the way in which we want to finance the discharge we are seeking. In fact, there are only three ways of financing: either by a discharge over higher debts, second by a discharge via a tax increase according to the principle: left pocket, right pocket, or by the third and only honest variant from our point of view: Structural reforms on the expenditure side. Here – and this is the first step of our tax reform concept – we did not start with taxes, but with structural reforms. We have collected proposals from experts and experts: from the Court of Auditors, WIFO, IHS and others who tell us where much money is in the Austrian system and where we can achieve the same public services with a lower use of tax money. And there comes together a considerable number: 19 billion €! According to these proposals, €19 billion can be saved without any loss of public services. This honesty is needed in the discussion – an honesty that has also been given to me in Mr Matznetter's speech. He's not here right now, but you can do it to him. He claimed here again that the tax burden would fall. This can always be said, of course, that only the people in the country will not believe it, because all citizens feel that wage income is at record level, all companies feel that there is no money for investment and new jobs. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] That's a dishonest discussion! The truth is another. The truth is: Austria is a high tax country! We're hurrying from tax record to tax record. And that is why the first major approach of our reform concept is: Less! We have to relieve ourselves. We need to relieve taxpayers and taxpayers. We want to reduce income tax by around €4 billion. We want to link this with a tax authority for countries and communities. And that's not exactly what Mr Köchl – who is not here now – said, the flicking of road holes, but this is quite a matter of responsibility. Our figures also say that the Austrian state spends €11 billion more on administration than Switzerland. 11 billion € more, and every year! – No, this is not about the flicking of holes of the road floor, here is a huge amount of money that simmers into inefficient structures. We want to reduce the amount of wages, even by about €4 billion, to relieve work, to remove the pressure from net wages and to also create scope for businesses, scope for further jobs. We want to make a contribution to making the tax system easier. We have proposed to approach a series of tax types, ranging from bagatell taxes to legal charges, thus abolishing any third type of tax in Austria. Overall, this gives a discharge of €8.5 billion, and then even a little remains. There are 6 billion left to cover our deficit. No one has yet explained how we really want to do that. There will be €3 billion left to start debt reduction – a first, necessary and honest step – and then there will be €3.5 billion left, margin that we have created for investment in the future. This is a courageous concept – and that is not what we say, says Fritz Schneider, the most famous Austrian economist in the German-speaking region – and we also call for this courage from the Federal Government. It is not enough for us to focus on Greece and other crisis countries, we need to focus on the best. It is only in this way that we will receive our economic location, only in this way will we preserve prosperity and jobs in this country. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e14232	The next item is Mrs Ecker. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e14253	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Values Advisors! Mr Schellhorn of the NEOS – I think he's not in the hall now, but he's here – you have described to us the situation of your two sons, both business children, mid and late twenty, who do not see a future for themselves at the economic location of Austria. I already have to say that if the Austrian economic location of you is constantly being mistreated, I think it is bad. That's just him and just not him! I would like to explain this to you by my example. I am also an entrepreneurship child, who took over the operation of my parents with my brother two years ago. We like to operate in Austria and see many, many opportunities for ourselves with good ideas. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Rare is something as revealing as today's urgent request from NEOS. Let me quote from this: “In industrialization, workers might have to be protected from working conditions in the companies” – I quote, “perhaps” – “even though they had to be protected from working conditions in the companies. ==References== But new jobs are no longer created by the longest flow band, but by innovation in technologies and services.” Is this the world you're talking about? [[The speaker shows a panel on which close-ups are depicted in a factory and then places them on the speaker's desk.]] Is that the picture you're talking about? [[Abg. Hable: This is reality!]] – That’s true! Your economic liberalism! That's what I'm Your economic liberalism, please. [[Abg. Stroll: Yes, this is the jacket you wear!]] We all live in the same world, Mr. Strolz! The image should expand your horizon. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] So again: ==References== In the 19th century, new jobs are no longer determined by the longest flow band. – Good morning, NEOS, dream Keep going! Look You can do this, or let me say it again with your words: [[the speaker points to the panel]] Today, capital is as volatile as it is the increasingly missing highly qualified workers. Millions of people are fleeing from capitalism, that is reality, and you want to eliminate employment protection. Just imagine this picture! [[The speaker points to the panel the other day.]] This is the world that you and your NEOS want to create. Today, Mr Schellhorn, as my previous speaker, Peter Haubner of the ÖVP, has already said – you have been politically active in the Hoteliervereinigung for many years – I would like to address that now – and have represented the interests of the members there. I understand that you want to establish yourself as a member of a new party. But the fact is that NEOS look old today. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Pressing for water privatisation and the demand for a 12-hour working day They want to remove the workers' regulations before and now. They call it flexibility. We do not support such projects. I dream of a country in which income is fairly distributed, in which poverty is effectively combated, not big capitalism. The gap between the poor and the rich must no longer grow. The labour factor must be relieved. What you're planning is to promote less and to take advantage of many. Read the current social report: 47 percent of the unemployed are already working in atypical forms of employment. [[Abg. Stroll: You've confused the century, that's class struggle!]] ==References== 19th century! At first you, Mr Schellhorn, have worked for years, as I have said, in the Hotelier's Association and represented your members. You need to know exactly how important interest groups are, how important they are, especially in the field of EPCs and SMEs. The ice cream section around the corner cannot afford its own law firm. Their demands would therefore be a clear poorer position for EPCs and SMEs than for large businesses. As an entrepreneur, I say quite clearly that your concepts are past reality. As a Democrat, I also say to you that I will not agree to a free trade agreement that violates social standards and food standards. Social democracy was also founded in Austria precisely because Victor Adler saw in the brickworks at that time, which means non-compliance with social standards: pitiful social misery. As a Social Democratic, I must keep in mind the reality. [[The speaker points to the panel.]] – Nothing, but nothing is liberal about NEOS. Then ask for a “one-in-one-out rule” for the legislation. How can I imagine that? If we in Parliament make a law for disabled people, do I have to wait until a law of the road transport system is removed? – That is not thoughtful, unbalanced and impenetrable! It is true, for example, that Austria's economy is facing a flood of standards. It is quite difficult for small and medium-sized enterprises to operate with this flood of standards. In 2014, for example, 1 519 new standards were adopted and 1 257 withdrawn, which means a standardisation burden of 2,776 standards. That's just too much! Who else should know? We have recognized this, and this is what the government programme says, and that is why we want to relieve the economy. There is no transparency here. Large enterprises provide standards, and these must then be taken over by smaller businesses. The costs for the public sector in relation to the many, many standards are enormous in the construction sector. But you don't address these issues. You don't recognize the problems of the economy. Dear NEOS, if you want to get involved, please. I would like you to think exactly about this picture here, because that is the face of NEOS-Capitalism. [[the speaker shows the table]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e14392	The next item is the speech by Mr Wöginger. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e14413	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to address three areas which Mr Schellhorn mentioned and which I think are worth discussing. I might want to make a few additions. They asked the Federal Chancellor about three areas: What is being done against high unemployment? What are the projects to make people stay more money, more net of gross? What is being done about de-bureaucratisation? I would like to make a few comments on unemployment, because I consider it necessary to inform the population that the government is working on this issue. This is a challenge in our country, yes, across Europe: We have an increase in unemployment, but also in employment. I would also like to maintain this for the Republic of Austria. We have almost 3.5 million self-employed – including at this time – as many as never before. Unfortunately, however, we also have rising unemployment. In the previous year, there were about 20,000 more people entering employment, and around 30 000 more people have become unemployed. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, the people who are currently looking for a job are paying attention, which is not a question. And this federal government is also doing something against unemployment. I would like to refer to the Council of Ministers' presentation, which goes through the Council of Ministers each month, which is available and where the figures are clear and clear. I'd like to hold on: We are in the first place with Germany on the Stockerlplatz. We have expected about the same unemployment over the year and we have the second lowest youth unemployment. However, it is important, and this should also be said: We have 20 000 unemployed, who are long-term unemployed, of a total of 400 000 unemployed. 900 000 people per year migrate through the AMS to mention this institution positively. There is always a need for improvement, but 900 000 people are wandering through the AMS, and 583,000 people were able to take up employment through the AMS last year, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] – This must be expressed here once again. A group which is particularly difficult to find on the labour market is older workers, workers over the age of 50. We all know them from our speeches. We have created an integration aid and a combined wage aid here. 14 400 people were reintegrated into the labour market last year and 5 580 received a combined wage aid. Ladies and gentlemen! We recognize the problem and do something about it. The figures also show that both the Federal Government and we in Parliament are taking the right measures. This is what we want to achieve together. This is not with prejudice and punishment, it is only through joint action with undertakings and with workers, ladies and gentlemen. You can only solve that together. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We from the People's Party will develop appropriate measures between the ÖAAB and the Economic Federation, which we will also introduce to you, because we believe that this can only be resolved jointly, but not with punishment and foremen. Ladies and gentlemen! It has been mentioned that the data in Germany would be better than in Austria. Yes, in part, there is also a reason for this: Germany is demographically older than Austria. It is currently being advertised. In Germany, more people are going to retire than enter the labour market. This situation has not yet been established in Austria. I would also like to add a number as a representative who lives in a border region, namely in the Inner District, in the district of Schärding. My father was a borderman himself. We are currently in the situation that 100,000 Germans work in Austria and 50,000 Austrians in Germany. The situation was completely reversed a few years ago. This should also be said when we talk about moving on to our labour market, ladies and gentlemen. The second aspect is tax reform and the aim is for people to remain more money in the stock exchange. Yes, we support this, ladies and gentlemen. More net of gross! The tax rate is too high. That is why a major focus must be placed on redundancies in the area of wage and income taxation, in particular the relief of workers and families with children, ladies and gentlemen. This is a major concern for us from the People's Party. We have an inequality in the tax system between families with children and families without children. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kitzmüller.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have developed a model for employee participation. This would be a model that could be implemented immediately, where €1,000 – if an entrepreneur is willing to disburse to his employees – should be left with a final tax of €250 per cent. This could be done relatively quickly. From my point of view, there is no question of counter-financing because this would stimulate consumption. And we should also use a tax reform to do so. The last point is an active location policy. We have nothing to do with protecting jobs and creating new ones. We need to be more attractive about what the framework conditions are. And only entrepreneurs can create additional jobs due to attractive conditions. [[Abg. Lightenecker: Yes, that's true! Do!]] Debureaucratisation, I would like to conclude with this issue because it has been addressed. On the one hand, we have already taken decisions in this House. We've deleted agents, we've simplified working time records. And here too, because the best bidder principle has been addressed, we have held a large event on this subject, we want to go away from the cheapest bidder principle to the best bidder principle. Reducing bureaucracy and simplification must also be part of this tax reform. Finally, I can bring an example from Upper Austria. Head of State Pühringer has called on the population to report what has happened to them personally in the administrative process. 18 000 feedbacks have been sent to the country of Upper Austria, which are now being opened and processed, and possible simplifications will be implemented. The management needs to be simplified. We need to reduce regulations, laws, regulations. It is not for employees in the public service, but for a certain regulatory spirit which we have built up here in recent years, we in Austria, also in the countries, and especially in the European Union. [[Abg. Kitzmüller: Who dominates the countries?]] And the last sentence, ladies and gentlemen: We need to save expenditure on the one hand. We need to save expenditure to finance the necessary tax relief. This must be the credo in the discussion when it comes to tax relief for citizens.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e14492	The next item is the report by Mr Angerer. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e14513	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Before we come to the negative balance of the economic policies of the government parties, I must say to Mr Köchl of the Greens something about economic policy, especially in Carinthia: The only thing you have done since you were in the government is to prevent a 60 million investment project on the Mölltal glacier and the diletantic approach to an economic scandal in the Görtschitz valley, where the negative economic impact for an entire region is not yet foreseeable. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Lightenecker: Such a nonsense!]] Now on the economic policy of our Federal Government. By taking the “New Zurich Newspaper ” of the 1st century. January's hand, it reads: ‘Arrangement of parties and chambers paralyzes Austria’. And: “Austria has been living at the expense of the substance for years.” – Unfortunately, one has to realize that too. And unfortunately, the Austrians also have this feeling and feeling. Unfortunately, the red and black coalition is constantly trapped in its social security systems, with the Chamber of Agriculture and the Chamber of Commerce at the ÖVP and on the other hand with the Chamber of Workers and the Trade Union. Therefore, it must be assumed that, unfortunately, reforms cannot be implemented. Since 2007, and this is a fact, even though the Federal Chancellor emphasizes otherwise and repeatedly quotes it, the figures go down in the international comparison as far as the economy is concerned. We are losing in comparison with the EU. Although growth is growing in the EU, it is sinking in Austria. The only thing that is increasing in Austria is unemployment and inflation, and the economy is falling. The fact that we are still so good in Austria today is not the achievement of the parties and the government, but of the diligent people in this country, of course also the entrepreneurs and the export industry. Today, we have 150 companies that are world market leaders, who are still maintaining this country, and the diligent entrepreneurs and SMEs. It's them. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is to be feared that this policy will also weaken and break up. The economy says: We need labour! But unfortunately, everyone who is well-trained makes a bow around Austria, and the poorly trained, the unearned, who land with us in the social system. This is migration policy. And let's look at higher education policy: Although we have a lot of people from abroad who study with us in Austria, only 17 percent of them stay here. That means we're losing well-trained people. The brain drain from Austria continues. The research rate addressed by the Federal Chancellor today is currently 2.8 percent, and this shows our wishes in the papers – it is expected to be 3.76 percent in 2020. This value is probably in further distance. Small and medium-sized entrepreneurs – that is what you hear when you go out and talk to them – are moaning under the administration, under the conditions they have to fulfil, under the administrative burden, under the tax burden, under the conditions that their employees have. For example, the labelling regulation, which has already been mentioned, is not only a massive obstacle to the host industry, but also to the food sector. Thus, a food business operator needs to buy new scales today, because it has to be displayed on the balance, which is contained in this product the buyer acquires. A small savings market with us in the village costs the necessary investment €20 000, only to be able to comply with this regulation. These are the conditions that we impose on entrepreneurs and thus on the economy, and thus we weaken them. If you heard Mr Loacker from NEOS today, I have to say: This, of course, hurt me as a local politician. I would advise everyone to go to local politics, perhaps – you don't get up in the economy as Director-General – before you get into the National Council and then talk about federalism and finance. It is still this way – I have mentioned it several times – that the communities in this country are dealing with the finances and making federal and state debt. You should save where you make debts – the entrepreneur will do the same – before saving those who do with the finances anyway. Then I find the fire brigades and the volunteers in our country to refuse the equipment, that is, simply the wrong way. You don't do that! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In conclusion: If you have heard the Minister of Finance today, I hope he will be able to implement what he has said today about the federalism system and its tax reform package. He only, as someone has rightly mentioned today, has a clot on his leg, and these are the two government parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e14568	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e14589	Mr President. Mr. Chancellor! High house! I would like to deal with the tax reform concept of NEOS a little bit. Mr Schellhorn said that it was part of a national growth offensive. In principle, a growth offensive must take place at European level if it is to be something, and, of course, it must also be sustainable. – But this is just a marginal remark. Now the NEOS' tax concept itself. The attributes are less, simpler, generation-friendly. I would like to deal briefly with all these three adjudications. Less: less taxes. Yeah, you're planning to reduce taxes, that's right. As a result of the short time available, I cannot now deal with all the tax reductions you have in your concept. But I would like to take one point, which is the relief of wage and income tax. The relief of wage and income tax foresees that the low income will at least be relieved with zero – I will remove your films. This means that the low incomes in this country, namely those incomes that do not pay a wage and income tax, will not be deducted. That's 2.5 million people in this country. [[Abg. Stroll: It means tax reform...!]] There are 2.5 million people in this country, mainly women, part-time workers with low incomes who do not want to relieve you! And the higher the income, the stronger the relief. This actually reminds me of the tax reform concepts of the ÖVP and also the SPÖ: The discharge is always significantly lower in the lower half than in the upper half. [[Abg. Darabos: With the SPÖ...!]] Now we're still wondering: What does the financing concept look like? – I just grip... [[Abg. Stroll: If no tax is paid...!]] Now listen to me, Mr Strolz. – I only partially grasp the financing concept at first. There are 19.1 billion cuts in expenditure. As regards the relevance of self-financing by people, I would like to stress one thing: The planned reductions in pensions amount to €6.8 billion; the reduction in wage and income tax rates is approximately 4 billion. In addition, you have planned savings in the health sector of € 4.5 billion. There goes Mr. Hable and says: There are no cuts in services. Well, how do you want to do that? How do you want to save €4.5 billion in the health sector without any cuts in it? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] How do you want to save €6.8 billion in the pension area without any reductions in the pension area? Your concept is a concept that is not honest. Their concept is a concept in which the people who are relieved pay taxes by cuts in pensions on the one hand, but also by cuts in health benefits on the other! You have to explain to me, Mr Hable and Mr Strolz, why only one concept should be honest on the expenditure side. They call it the structure of expenditure. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hable.]] Explain to me why a tax-structural reform is unfair, a tax-structural reform, which provides for the establishment of where the burden is highest, namely in the case of labour and labour income, which at the same time also employs where the burden is lowest, namely, in the case of the 10 percent of the richest and the richest in our country. What is to be unfair about this if the rich in the country make a contribution to the relief of payroll and income taxpayers? – You have to do that to me, you have to [[Congratulation with greens and SPÖ.]] You really explain to people, to our spectators at home! Your tax system should also be made easier. I'm sorry, I can't see where the tax system is actually getting easier. It has more tax autonomy for countries and local authorities as a component – I just take one example – of paying tax and income tax. Now let's think about what's going to be easier. There is an employee's charge in the wage tax. Once the funds have been distributed, the entire financial compensatory flows must be re-rolled in one train after the employee's claims have been made. This is a huge administrative effort. [[Abg. Stroll: There are now computers!]] Did you think about that? Did you ask Mr Friedrich Schneider whether there is the courage to speak about Mr Hable? – Mr Schneider, by the way, is not the most famous economist in the German-speaking language, but that is certainly – no, no, Mrs Finanzminister out of service, so I am not going – Mr Hans-Werner Sinn. [[Abg. Fekter: This is Mr Rossmann!]] [[Rejoicing at the ÖVP]] He's not mine, he's one of the neoliberal varieties, but he's certainly the most famous German-speaking economist. So simplicity can't be the point. Where, then, has your courage remained in the “summer talk” when you spoke about an integrated tariff, about the merger, the harmonisation of the basis of assessment in the wage tax on the one hand and the social security contributions on the other? – Nothing more can be seen. The third ascribement to your tax reform is: generation-based. “Generation justice” however, I do not link with a reduction in the pension area. This also has little to do with the tax side, which has something to do with the expenditure side. Therefore, if I wonder what ‘generation-friendly’ means, I must ask myself the question of environmental sustainability. Yes, in that I recognize a generation element. What is your ecological tax concept? – Your ecological tax concept looks such that you want to remove three taxes in the ecological field, namely the NOVA, the flight tax and the car tax. In return, you want to introduce a CO2 tax, non-income. Where so to speak, the ineffectiveness and ineffectiveness of the three taxes you wish to delete lie, you must also explain this to me, Mr Cot. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stroll]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I can see a sense in a CO2 tax. But why, please, come up neutral? [[Abg. Stroll: Because we don't want to burden!]] I can't quite understand that, honestly. If you have also said, Mr Strolz, that you are the first parliamentary party to present a tax model, I am against it: We are the only party that has presented a serious tax model. [[Abg. Strolz: computed by Mr Rossmann?]] No, by Professor Willi Altzinger of the University of Economics and his research assistants. See: calculated! [[Abg. Stroll: Congratulations on that!]] Our concept is one that is, in fact, fair to distribution policy, because the lower 90 percent are relieved and the 10 percent rich pay. It is also something inside from the women's policy perspective, namely the fact that the lower incomes are relieved, and now most women find themselves. It is also cost-effective because only economic effects are derived from a tax reduction when the low and lower incomes and those in the middle are relieved, but not when the upper ones are relieved because every tax euro that flows there is lacking in economic policy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is not possible to talk about an eco-social tax reform – I would like to add that again – in your concept. Therefore, I cannot see that it is a concept that relieves relief, which is easier and that is gender-friendly. You still have to be very excited about your tax concept! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e14766	The next item is the speech by Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e14803	Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear spectators on the gallery and at home after work on television! I really think it is good that this urgent question to the Austrian company is being discussed today. The debates have shown – now the last, where we talk about what studies and what concepts are serious, which are sustainable – how important it is to have a fundamental discussion here. As we know, development is indeed a difficult one, not only in Austria but also internationally, and of course we cannot quit. However, I may briefly repeat some principles from the National Council election campaign by our founder Frank Stronach, who said very clearly: We need an administrative reform, we have to bring the money from bureaucracy to the economy, to the families, to the small businesses. We must support the domestic economy. We need to tax those banks and corporations that are fleeing abroad and to promote those who invest regionally, because, in the end, economic power is created here too, families and workers have money to invest and the economy prosperates. If the opposition was accused by the government parties of polemics, I must say: Of course, some proposals will be rejected as polemics. But the other way round, and I am very grateful that the Federal Chancellor is personally present during this important discussion. A short cross-section: Here in this House, Minister of Agriculture Rupprechter has explained to us that he will stand up against TTIP and defend the Austrian standards; also in a “Kronen Zeitung” contribution with economist Tobias Moretti. But now on the Green Week – Mr President Schultes, you will have heard it – at once the turning point: TTIP also has positive pages! It will protect the Austrian specialities from TTIP. That is, I think, the very essential thing that we are now talking about: What specialties does the Minister for Austria want to protect? – I think that's the essential thing. [[As a result, the speaker holds several food packs that he has brought into a shopping cart to the speaker’s desk.]] If he has addressed the Tyrolean bacon as a patriot, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to know what is here from Austria. Is it the Danish pigs? Is it the Polish pigs that are carnaged alive to Austria and slaughtered here and get the AT stamp? Is it perhaps this fish specialty? – Finest and pikantes for pleasures, of course from Austria. I would like to know in which sea they are fished: in the Atter Sea, in the Moon Sea or in the Traun Sea? Is it pumpkin kernel oil? – Here we have an example of how it should be: the steiric. We know, however, how many substitutions there are that come from repressive or imported Chinese cores. Is it this dreamy honeyglass, the flower honey with flower meadow? – Delicious, but it’s honey from international “lands”. Or, now the highlight, is it perhaps this spray cream? – It is imported by an Austrian farm cooperative from Belgium, which explains to the farmer: It is important that we can export to China so that we can clear the market. Here, I believe, the Minister – Mr Chancellor – I also ask you to support us here – is guilty of an answer. Have we really had too much lately, I say that labeling has been introduced into this food and nutrition policy? [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The most important thing after birth – we have discussed it today – is a healthy diet. From diet, which is most important for the body I think we should really see our specialties, for which we are also known. When Minister Rupprechter spoke of “The Key of Austria” in Berlin, we really want to offer our domestic consumers, but also our valued business partners abroad the “Taste of Austria”. But that must be fair, and there must not be a wonderful increase. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] That is why we would add up, because it is about Austria's economic location, because there are 150,000 small farms closed here – Mrs.ckinck is not here –: Yes, I am in favour of the Austrian economy because many small EPCs and SMEs in the agricultural sector have been closed down because many regional jobs have been lost because of the thinning of rural areas as a result of which it reduces mad kilometres from and to the workplace because of the environmental pollution caused by climate change and thus health pollution and the loss of jobs. Because of the freight seal confusion in the food market – we have discussed it more often – so that there is finally clarity on the market, I can again bring in the following motion for a resolution by Mr Steinbichler, colleagues on the quality seal law: ‘The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Government is invited to submit to the National Council, without delay, a draft law to safeguard the economic location of Austria, which is appropriate to enable the introduction of a legally binding, uniform quality seal for all foodstuffs offered in Austria.” We ask for support in the sense of our economy, in the sense of a regional, prosperous economy and no speculative ones, so that such images “closed for US competition”, as a regional agricultural goods dealer has said on the website, are not the future. [[the speaker holds the corresponding figure in the height]] – Thank you and ask for support.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e14920	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Steinbichler is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e15008	Next word: Mr Mag. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e15030	Now I believe Leo's gonna leave me the jause. But that's not the case. Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! First of all, replicating the colleague Ecker, who meant that it is inconceivable that NEOS calls for another law to be removed from any new law, I may invite you to read in the government program. On page 17, there is the “One in, one out” principle of the Federal Government, namely that an old one should fall away for every new law. - Ha, you've got a blackmail in the government program, Mrs. Ecker! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] To the lecturer Rossmann: Yes, Mr Rossmann, you are right, we are financing the discharge with cuts on the expenditure side because we are firmly convinced that the Republic – as the Minister of Finance has said – has a problem with expenditure and no problem of revenue. If you want to give people something, then you have to use the state's expenditure side. The proposals we have tabled do not come from us. We have not let them grow on our dung, but these are all expert proposals, exactly, including those from the Court of Auditors. [[Abg. Katzian: The experts...!]] This is where things are being worked out to finance the discharge of taxpayers and taxpayers. If you say that in the proposals of NEOS, small incomes are not taxed, I will tell you a secret: If someone pays 0 € tax, I can't go down from this 0 €. In the Green proposal – ‘concept’ – I do not mention what you have proposed on taxation – the Greens proposal also provides for you to introduce social security contributions to small incomes. That's what I'm looking at, how you're doing that, where you've got the health insurance contributions, the pension contributions down on small incomes. What we have – and since NEOS' tax proposal is very different from that of ÖVP and SPÖ – is: With us, the big incomes are not the ones that are most relieved, but the middle ones; and the discharge curve is slowly dragging in, so that the large ones are also relieved, but not so strong anymore. If you point to counter-financing, I also have to tell you, I wonder what kind of asset taxation you want to finance in some way. In Germany, for example, the inheritance tax is €4 billion; if you reduce this by factor 10 to Austria, it means 400 million, and you don't get anything. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Katzian.]] Nothing! Then it is always argued, especially from this side Austria has too low wealth taxes. [[towards SPÖ]] Yes, this is the reason why the basic tax in Austria is particularly low. And now, in particular, the Members from Vienna can ask why the basic tax is low. On the other hand, the Members of the Federal Government may ask why the basic tax is so low in Austria. Now I come to the pensions, because the “evil NEOS-Bagage” – to one’s own “Bagage”, Mr President – wants to cut the “evil NEOS-Bagage” pensions.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e15082	Please do so with your colleagues.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e15098	Yes, there is something to be done in the pension sector, because if we are allowed to believe the figures of the Federal Government, then at the end of this legislative period, we have the fact that 28 percent of the expenditure of the Republic is spent on pensions. And there is certainly a question of generation-righteousness, if we want to work towards the fact that there is still enough money in 20 and 30 years that we can invest in the future – in education, in research and in future-oriented expenditure. There is nothing to do with it if, like the Federal Minister, Mr Hundstorfer, we speak beautifully and say, yes, the retirement age has risen and we rely only on a statistical trick because we have calculated invalidity pensions. If you look at the retirement age in concrete terms, you will see that it has even fallen by 1.2 months in the case of purely old age pensions. The Federal Chancellor then said: Flexibility in the labour market. – I would like to add a few more things. We have little flexibility in the labour market, which leads to working time. We have little flexibility in the labour market, which leads to health and illness. In Austria, you are either healthy or sick, and there is nothing in between. This goes beyond the realities of life. Today we have more and more people who fail due to mental stress in the longer term. And you can't imagine such people when they feel fit again to return to their workplace at 100 percent, but they also do psychologically good when they return in part, a few hours a day. That's what we call part-time work. We are still very inflexible in Austria. There is still a lot to do in the interests of the people, in the sense of the employees in the businesses. If we continue to see how flexible we are, I would like to point out for the x-th time the red-and-white red card in which we have much too high obstacles for the qualified people we bring in, where we have so high obstacles that the people who are with us in Austria have not been able to make a Bachelor's degree here, because a Bachelor's degree is not sufficient because the income limits are so high that they do not even reach an Austrian average graduate of the University of Vienna, with which we are throwing these qualified forces from the third countries beats between the legs. If you as a business abroad find a key force and you bring the person to Austria, then you can't even buy an apartment here because it fails to obtain a basic permit. In Germany she can, in Sweden she can do the same. If I were a qualified force from a third country, I would go everywhere, but certainly not to Austria, where I am not welcome. Here you can think about how to create flexibility in the labour market.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e15146	The next item is the report by Mr Katzian. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e15167	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! This has now been a good example of what my previous speaker is saying, when you get all kinds of ideas in a relatively short time and act with the help of words. Mr Loacker, you said: There's something you have to do with the pensions. – Yes, then tell us exactly what you intend to do! Because fact is, the actual retirement age must rise. That's what we've come to know. That's what's agreed. We're not through yet, but we're on a good way. If you want something different than that the actual retirement age is rising, then tell us what you want! Do you want the statutory retirement age to rise? Then tell me! They're just saying: Something has to happen. But you don't say what to do. I'll tell you one thing: You can do a hundred times with some numbers, if now the birth-like vintages go into retirement, so more people go into retirement, there is an ageing society and we confess to the financing of pensions, then it is clear that this will also cost more. Except you say: We don't want people getting these pensions anymore. Then you will also say what your proposal is! At least we're not going into what we're doing. You're trying to suggest! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We have also discussed the state of partial illness. Please, don't be angry, but either I'm healthy or sick! Show me a doctor who does this! We've got a few, maybe someone can tell me if there's a doctor who's going to write down: The patient is healthy from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m., and the rest of the time he's sick. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Moser.]] It's a Kasperl Theatre! When it comes – wait a bit! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stroll.]] When it comes to reintegrating after long diseases, you can discuss everything with us, but certainly not about this form of partial illness. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Honey.]] [[Abg. Stroll: That's what your people asked!]] Mr Strolz! I'll come to you. I know you're longing, I'm coming to you. You said: They are conservatives and social democrats who have led us into the crisis. Well, no one really believes you, because what has led us into the crisis, these are exactly the failed neoliberal models you want to push us in with the proposal and with other things. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I remember: Lehman, banking crisis, subsequent economic crisis, sovereign debt crisis. Your neoliberal concepts have failed. [[Abg. Stroll: Send the banks to bankruptcy at last!]] Possible failure! And people had to wash it out. We have decided together to save the bank. We have decided on short work together. These concepts have failed. So you don't need to come and explain to us because this has failed, do we do the same again now?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Stroll: You're ruling! Throughout Europe you are ruling!]] That's where we gave the dirt a wax. It won't work, it won't work! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Your view of the social partners, as you estimate it, is not acceptable to you. The colleagues in the Chamber of Commerce can defend themselves. But Mr Schellhorn, the way in which you have gone, what you have called for, is really a joke, not worthy of this House. The people who work in the interest groups have not deserved this. We all do our job as best we can, driven by the fact that we do something good for the people we represent. We don't need to be made by you like Rotzbuben. Take note of this! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] They talk about free entrepreneurship and are already on the way again with the little seeferl to scatter sand into the eyes of all people. And I thought, What does he mean by free entrepreneurship? What is free now, or who is free? – Then gratefully came the illuminance, because you immediately mentioned the two important words: Flexibility and deregulation. I'm wondering now: What do you mean by flexibilization? For example, if you mean working time, I'll tell you: In all collective agreements there is more than one way and models to work flexibly. And we are constantly expanding the flexibility of the collective treaty negotiations. If you feel that overtime should not be paid any more, then you also have to say it in concrete terms. If you mean that, I don't know, but then we'll deal with it. They're talking about deregulation. In reality, it's just one thing you're talking about: They want to transfer the market risk and the entrepreneurship risk to those who cannot afford it, namely to workers. In a developed economy, we need very clear rules of play, which all must comply with and which businessmen must comply with. And if it doesn't fit you a hundred times, that's why Austria is also a kind, socially displaced country, where one doesn't have to decide and the other have to hop, but where there is this compensation. And we will fight for this compensation to continue in the future!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e15287	Mrs Fekter is speaking next time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e15309	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! It is certainly not a coincidence that we have a pre-election of the Chamber of Commerce and that NEOS has a request that allows us to hold an economic debate. I would like to say a thank you, because I welcome the broad debate on the economy, the location issues in the House. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Stroll.]] They have done analyses in the request, which describe the most correct facts. First: Wealth is created by work. And work creates businessmen, not politics, but entrepreneurs, and with their employees they also create prosperity in this country. That's right. It is also true that in the recent past we had to take note of painful ranking losses. That is to say, I share your view that we must continue our efforts, especially in the reduction of red tape, in the tax burden, in flexibilization, in innovation, research and education; all of this you have correctly recognized in keywords. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Stroll.]] But your proposals are headlines, which listen well, you have largely written off at the Economic Federation, no question at all. But your analysis is wrong that nothing would have happened in this regard. On the contrary: We have constantly tried to make a little progress in the reduction in the cost of wages, in the social benefits for entrepreneurs. We have started to reduce red tape with the officers, the working time records. And anchoring the debt brake in the Constitution was a big concern of me, but there you were not yet in Parliament. [[Abg. Stroll: Now we're here!]] It has failed at the opposition and not at the government, because the government group has at least simply anchored the debt brake, that is, we have been so successful for a long time. We wouldn't have needed you to do that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Stroll: We'll be there on the second run!]] I do not want to hide that this headline list, which is like a wish-dir-what-propaganda, in the implementation means either substantial budgetary costs – you did not list them, I have found billions in there! – or just touch different, most contradictory interests that you just don't bring together. Mr Katzian is right, the social partners are concerned about these different interests and find a balance. And if you are opposed to social security or you are seeking to weaken social security, I must say quite honestly: [[Abg. Stroll: Renewal!]] Not with us! .. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and SPÖ]] For the balance and consensus here in this country secure social peace, do not cause strikes and above all also mean legal certainty for the economy. And that is all worth more than certain neoliberal ideas.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e15408	Next word: Mr Dr. Franz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e15429	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like High house! Federal Chancellor! Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you once again for the re-stimulating of the topic of economics. I think that's good, you can bring it back again and again, it's a permanent theme. What I missed a bit today in your programme or even in the debate, where it was only strangled, was the topic of health, the health system. They will not find a functioning economy where the health system does not work properly. We know that in Austria we have about 400 000 workers in the health system, which is quite a lot. You can start a lot with them, but they are mostly very frustrated. We know the current medical problem, the escape of doctors abroad, the salary debate et cetera. That's business. I miss the proposals in your programme: What are we doing with our health system? Now one can say that this is an extra topic, but that is very closely intertwined with the economy, because the contributions, the taxes et cetera, that all comes from the economy, one does not go without the other, it is about many billion euros. The point is that you can't just go here and say: I'll get in here once. We have a negative example from Europe in recent years, which is called Greece. Greece received a very strict requirement from the Troika in 2011, which had to reduce the health budget to 6 percent. This is very good when you know what they used before, which is clearly more than 10 percent. Now they have just tried to drive and save on the lawn mower over the health system. These are voices and proposals, which are always loud with us: We have to save there, there is so much bacon in there, there is so much away, et cetera. You can't do that. This has led to the fact that the economy in Greece has been shown to have suffered even more. There is a large 2013 English study on the fact that the disease has increased dramatically, that the medical standards have fallen massively and that Greece has gone even worse in health and economic terms. In other words, a good health system is the key to a good economic system. [[Complementary of the Abg. Reciprocating.]] That means we have to sit there and think very carefully: What do we do with our maritime health system, where the surface is still good for the patients, but inside it it is completely messy and completely broken? The symptom for this is the refugee doctors. We already have 3,000 Austrian colleagues in Germany alone, who will not come back much more. What can you do? . We both, both political groups, have repeatedly cut it and proposed it: the merger of the cash registers. This is one of these proposals. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fekter.]] And another proposal is to create more freedom for the professions. [[Complementary of the Abg. Reciprocating.]] That goes, that sounds a premise absurd and according to plan economy, but that is if you create a great central – and I emphasize: central, non-centralist – planning. There are very good people in the health economy, in the chambers, among the doctors, among the nurses, everywhere there are people who are dealing with health policy, only they are unfortunately not heard. Because precisely these chambers and interest lobbys and the federalist Units then block each other again, and non-special persons then have the saying in the health reform. I think this is a fundamental problem for the Austrian health disaster. For example, one essential point would also be to put the 122 public hospitals in Austria together in the federal agency. Where, please, is the difficulty of unifying and bringing together these hospitals, which now belong either to the countries or to a community or a district, or in part to the Federation, and finally making these 122 stationary plants a well-functioning machinery in the patient's mind? Then I have cost transparency, I know which personnel I need where, I can more easily allow a staff exchange to take place, et cetera. I have a lot of advantages. Next step: Freedom of establishment, insurance contracts, away from the restrictive system we have. All of this would bring us a lot of money, would bring freedom to the individual and would help the economy in all because it would strengthen the health of the people. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and NEOS.]] A word about the sanctions that plague us all, namely sanctions against Russia. I am very much on the road in private medicine, there will be one or the other saying: Yeah, that's where he deserves, and that's where he's going to prove to the private hospital. What I see there is a lack of Russian patients who are very paying patients who have brought a lot of money to Austria, especially Vienna. They're gone. The golden miles in Vienna – and this is not about a luxury problem of a few jewels or an elegant squatt shop, but about the employees there – will in foreseeable time close and people will have to cancel, release as it is so beautifully euphemistic. That is to say, we are doing something bad with the sanctions we have imposed there, not only for the Russians, but also for the Austrian companies. And I would like to stress once again that it is not about luxury problems or luxury businesses, but it is very clearly about the employees, about a damage to the Austrian economy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e15518	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We come to the vote on the self-employed amendment 855/A(E) by Mrs Schellhorn, colleagues and colleagues on the offensive package 'Entrepreneurial Austria'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. vote on the motion for a resolution by Mrs Kassager, colleagues, on the urgency of the abolition of multiple duties in the Chambers of Commerce. Whoever is here, please give a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. Debates of the European Parliament I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. – That is the minority, this request is also rejected. [[17:59:17]] Short debate on the response to the question 2864/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e15587	We are now entering the brief debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for the Interior with the order number 2864/AB. The above-mentioned answer has already been distributed, so that a reading by the writer is not necessary. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with a speaking time of 10 minutes for the first speaker. Comments of members of the Federal Government or State Secretarys, as reported, should also not last for more than 10 minutes. I would ask Mrs Dietrich to open the debate as an applicant. Again to the memory: The speaking time is up to 10 minutes. – You are speaking, Mrs Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e15617	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate Mrs Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! We have deliberately chosen this request concerning illegal immigrants in Austria, because we believe that this is a problem that moves people, and a problem that is increasing from day to day. We have many people in Austria – more than 25,000 were picked up last year – of whom we do not know what they live on, what they feed on, how they finance their livelihood and what prospects and visions they have. When I talk to my colleague, Rouven Ertlschweiger, from Burgenland, I hear that there are more and more burglaries there that people live in fear and fear. Mrs. Schwentner, you're shaking your head. I'm telling you, I'm living 30 years in Kobenz, that's in Styria, in a rural region. For two, three years there have been burglaries right in the neighborhood. There was no such thing before. A tire dealer, a few hundred meters away, has been broken down four times in a row. We can't discuss that away! We have more and more crime in this country. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and FPÖ.]] If you look at the comparisons, you can see that this answer speaks a very, very clear language. In 2010, 16 727 people who were illegal in the country were arrested, and in 2014 152 percent more, although only the first ten months have been evaluated. Minister! We asked you if you were thinking of recruiting more staff. Don't you see the need for something to happen? There's a simple answer: No, no, no, – This is not our way! We don't think we can save with the police. This is about the security of citizens. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and the FPÖ representatives.]] We have one more problem: that many of these illegal immigrants have a very dubious past. We know from reports that some 3,000 people from Europe have moved into the holy war. There they tortured, murdered, raped, and part of it returns to Austria. Even the U.S. intelligence service warned Europe. He said you had to be careful, people coming back with war experience. You have to see that your system is getting safer. What has the Austrian Federal Government done? – Put the head in the sand, push the problem away and save the police and split the federal army to death. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is a irrational way, and there is definitely a course correction. We know that the EU's external borders are dilapidated, and we know that it is easy, thanks to Schengen, once a citizen is in Italy, to come to Austria or to travel to Germany. Ladies and gentlemen! We also wanted to know from the Minister how many immigrants were caught along with tugs. Also a number that can scare us all: While it was still relatively little in 2010, it was already 177 percent more in 2014, namely 1,464. More and more people are taking advantage of tractors in the hope of a better future. They spend a lot of money, are exploited by these tractors under the promise of false facts, and then, if they are lucky at all, they arrive healthy and alive in Europe, here with completely false ideas in their mind. Ladies and gentlemen! I think we need acute action. On the one hand, we have more and more illegal immigrants, on the other hand, the answer to us is that fewer and fewer people are being caught in border controls, fewer and fewer people are being caught at airports. What does that mean? – That means that we have fewer and fewer staff, fewer and fewer people working for the safety of people, because if there were actually enough personnel, the increasing number of illegal immigrants would also be reflected in the number of people involved in border crossings and airports. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I would like to put one out of the question: Of course, we believe that refugees must be helped, and, of course, we Austrians have the humanitarian duty to do so. We do not want to discuss this. It is sad, however, that a UN study, namely a study from the Drug Crime Office, shows that many African migrants are very likely to make the conscious decision to go to Austria. They have a good education, they own assets, they have properties and are able to pay up to €9 000 for a tow. It means that there are even village communities that form a fund, and from this fund people who move to Europe will be financed, and when they are in Europe, they will see that they can reclaim people from the family. Ladies and gentlemen! I think we need action here. We really need to look carefully and distinguish between refugees who need humanitarian aid – and they get our support – and all those who really want to come to Europe for economic reasons only because they believe that milk and honey flow here. We must return these to our home country strictly and correctly. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] All in all, we think that we needed a bloody massacre in Paris to get more punctual, namely to recognize the danger, to see what political development, which is at risk potential in Europe, but also here in Austria. We suddenly have terrorist warnings, something we fortunately didn't know at all. People are scared. Grandmothers say to their grandchildren: Don't go to the West Railway Station because who knows what could be there! There is huge fear and fear in the population. Appreciate Mrs Minister! This is where the government really bears responsibility. They need to give people safety. They must take appropriate measures. You need to see that we have enough personnel at the police. But you must also take care, you and your colleague in the government, that the federal army will not be broken down. Only if Austria really has experts in this field, if we return criminal elements, then – I know, colleague! [[Call to the SPÖ: This is the state defense!]] That is why I said: ‘and your colleague in the government’. I'm aware of that. – Only if we have sufficient resources and do not save where it directly concerns the safety of people will we go to a secure future for Austrians. In this sense: Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e15684	Mrs. Mag now has herself. Mikl's head of speech reported. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e15705	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen. I should like to thank you for having been able to discuss this question at this Parliament meeting today, and may address some of the questions raised by Mrs Dietrich. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) To your introduction, that you are afraid, I tell you: I can take that fear from you. I can take this fear from you because the first data from the 2014 criminal statistics show that crime has generally fallen in 2014. We will publish the entire criminal statistics as always at some point as soon as all the data are evaluated. If you look at the course of crime statistics or the crime in the last ten years, then you will They clearly recognize that ten years ago we had some 640 000 crimes, while last year we had 540 000 crimes, that is, more than 100 000 crimes less despite new forms of crime such as cybercrime or mobile theft. I have often stressed this in this House. In this context also a very big and warm thanks to our executive, our police officers. [[Congratulations to the ÖVP and to Mr Pendl and Mr Plessl.]] You have also mentioned what has made us all very concerned, namely the attacks in Paris, the incidents in Belgium and Germany. Yeah, that's what's going on. And yes, not only in these states, but also in us, there is increased alertness. Of course, we have long been aware of the threats posed by the terrorists. I think of our terrorist legislation, think of the novels of the various laws in December here in this House, where we had long discussions and turned on the various screws to make tightenings. But above all I am thinking of the speed of reaction of the entire Federal Government, for which I would like to thank the Federal Chancellor, the Vice-President, the Minister of Defence, and all the colleagues in the government for this clear commitment, a package of measures for security and justice. Introduce an action plan in Austria. [[Congratulations to the ÖVP and to Mr Kuzdas and Mr Plessl.]] In the meantime, many other EU Member States are following our initiative, like France today, where a similar package has also been tied up. In other words, it is important to me that we take seriously the concerns and fears, especially the increased risk of terror, that we do not spread panic in particular. I also ask you to be careful, but not to spread panic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e15760	Mr Plessl, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e15781	Mr President. Estimated Minister of the Interior! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we have a brief debate on the subject "Security offensive for Austria: Attacks by illegal immigrants’. In principle, I would like to make a few comments. For the first time, immigration and asylum are always mixed in a single sentence in this request. We have to separate this clearly. On the one hand, we have immigration. This is also clearly regulated by the Red and White Red Card with the social partners. There is therefore a procedure which is also legally secured. The second area is the asylum area, the Geneva Convention on Refugees, in which we also support people in need of assistance in these emergency situations. Another point, which is why security for the population is constantly being claimed to deteriorate, is the introduction of a closure of police inspections. I would like to stress that we do not have a closure right now, but rather a merger, a combination of police inspections, in which the staff remains available in full number. It is true that there are also people in the Stronach team – like Mr. Hagen, who is unfortunately not here now, but also Mr. Lugar, who was at FPÖ, BZÖ and who is with the Stronach team, who spoke for the closures of police inspections. That's right. At that time it was done so that a reduction of police officers was carried out. In other words, in the period 2000 to 2006, 3,000 police officers have been rationalised. That is to say, because that is the difference between a closure and a combination. A third point on which a discussion always arises is illegal immigration. When do you become illegal? There are rules of law, according to which it is clarified, from when someone is wrongful here. It is therefore necessary to clarify, first and foremost, whether a person can remain in Austria. When the procedure is completed and a return is necessary, however, a number of conditions are absolutely necessary for this return to be carried out. First of all, the identification of the person's identity is necessary. Then there is the possibility of voluntary return, which is also taken in large numbers. A contract between the Republic of Austria and the respective State or the European Union is also necessary in the event of a return and a breach of a foreign country. Only with this Treaty as a basis can a declaration of acceptance be made. Only when all these points are fulfilled can a person be taken out of the country. We do not need less EU, we need more EU. And it is true that it is unreasonable that a few states in the European Union have almost 90 percent to carry out the entire asylum process. Especially in the The Minister of the Interior has also set accents so that further divisions can be made. Next point. They have also spoken about the foreign-country population population. There is just an up-to-date request that has been answered by the Minister of the Interior on 19 November. January came the answer – to the development of the international return agreements. I would also like to mention this because it is very important that many withdrawal agreements have been concluded at European level, with Armenia, Azerbaijan, Turkey, Cape Verde and so on. In particular, Austria is a country for the return of Member States in which we are involved, such as Frontex. There are enough examples of where we are and where we are doing a return together with European countries. Finally, another comment on the improvement of the police. We managed to get 1,000 plan posts for the police in 2008, again in 2013. I congratulate the Federal Government on the security package it launched in 2015. It is very important to counteract this security package from the international threat. We have 100 new plan posts on cybercrime and so on, protective equipment and technical equipment, which is very important. Finally, what is still important in this context: We must adequately equip the borders and border areas with personnel, whatever we have planned. I am therefore also seeking to fill up the understand of 17 in my district of Gänserndorf, for which I have also received a request answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e15836	Next, Mr Amon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e15858	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We are discussing a question by Mr Hagen today with the number 3026. I do not know for what reasons, but Mr Hagen is not here today. That's all right. But it is also the founder of this question meeting now not in the hall. Honestly, I mean, I have every understanding, it's an important topic, but somehow it looks a bit like employment therapy now – don't be bad! At least those who want the meeting should be present in the hall while we discuss the answer to the question. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Pendl: That's how it looks!]] On the matter itself: I would have liked to say it myself, because I very much appreciate my colleague Dietrich in herself, but she has already said a few things, where I would like to oppose her clearly, which, as my colleague Pendl quite rightly calls for, simply do not vote. [[Abg. Pendl: Those just don't vote!]] If, for example, she claims that we needed the terrible attacks and acts of terror of Paris to get better, then I have to ask her if she has perhaps gone away in recent years. We already had in 2008 – and, of course, before that, but I started now in 2008 – in the course of the European Football Championship, a very concrete Islamic threat. It was not least our constitutional protection, our police authorities, who have not only acted in time, but who have acted accordingly since then – in fact already before, of course, because otherwise it would not be possible to evade something in 2008 – to act accordingly. So we didn't need Paris. When I go back to the nearer past, I ask: Who, then, – and quite clearly, before the incidents in Paris – has accessed Islamist cells here in the country? – Well, it was our authorities, this Federal Minister has given the order. We did not need Paris to be mint, as tragic Paris is, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Dietrich's complaint is that the tractors do not arrive at the airports. Yes, maybe put it. Once you're connected to tractors, tell them that it would be nicer if they came across airports and across the regular borders, then of course we would also do a little easier in the fight. I would like to tell you that there is a great deal of action to be taken to counter this, but the tow has its phases as well. We just have a lot of crisis spots right now. If you have more crisis spots in the world, what we currently have, whether you are looking for Africa, Iraq or Libya or Syria, this will of course also lead to a general increase in refugee flows. Nevertheless, I must point out to you that in 2014, we had around 10,000 asylum seekers and applications less than in 2002. So we're at We have not yet reached where our tops have already been, and I am not yet talking about the mid-1990s, where, of course, we had a multiple of them because of the war of Yugoslavia. You have to consider all of this, please. I would like to refer to the measures put forward by the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs with her staff in the Ministry of the Interior in order to overcome and combat this problem. Documentary consultants are used, not only at airports, but also throughout the consular area, in Greece, in Abu Dhabi, in Bangkok, in New Delhi, in Amman, in Moscow. The Interior Ministry of Staff, which deals with this, has the SOKO South, the SOKO North, trilateral stripes together with Italy and Germany. We are talking about increasing the investigation area against towing in the Federal Criminal Office, stronger international networking, Frontex et cetera. There is a wealth of measures, because of course these tractors also go a wide variety of ways and have various motives. The fact that it is a difficult task to deal with the asylum problem cannot be doubted. I believe, however, that the action taken by the Federal Minister, namely to call on the countries to go to the municipalities in smaller units, is good. We've got great mayors. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] – Final sentence, Mr President: We have very great mayors who know how to deal with the situation well and responsibly. The subject is not suitable for changing a little political change.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e15922	The next item is the speech by Mr Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e15944	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Please, do not be so small, because perhaps the colleague Hagen is currently in use in the municipal election campaign in Vorarlberg! After all, four other members of the Stronach team have signed here. I cannot decipher the ECGs down there, but perhaps Mrs Dietrich has also been there. At any rate, there are four colleagues from the Stronach team, so you can really discuss this. That is a non-essential question. Mr Amon! Finally, you said yes, there are so many mayors. Interesting would be the number of mayors who do that. At least in Lower Austria, we will not do that until after 25. January's got it. [[Abg. You don't have one!]] As far as political change is concerned. You don't even trust yourself to enter the exchange room before the 25th. In order to see how the asylum seekers are actually being distributed throughout the country. At first, this debate, Mrs Minister – thank God it is a short debate, because as an interior minister you really have a lot to do right now. I'm thinking about that especially the next week. There you have to protect the visitors to the academic ball accordingly by placing this violent mob, which is already threatening itself again, in the barriers accordingly. [[Abg. Rädler: Stop him!]] It's clear that violence is coming again. It is only interesting that a different strategy is chosen here than to combat terrorism in general. So there's going to be de-escalation, helmet off, show off face and work like that, but when it comes to terror, there are armored vehicles and helicopters. One will see which concept ultimately brings success. Rather, we believe that these rallys, which are called peaceful, are in reality only used as a camouflage for violence. They should then be assessed differently accordingly. But, Mrs. Federal Minister, we are very glad that you want to ensure a successful protection of this ball event. I hope that it will not be a failure, not only for the ball visitors, but also for the countless Vienna entrepreneurs, for example, who have to fear their business portals or other things. But what does this request have to do with asylum, migration or closed police inspections? - Nothing. In reality, very naked figures have been recorded here, where one sees that there are people in Austria who are illegally clung to an asylum procedure, to a rule of law, as Mr Plessl has said, who are still here, that there are immigrants who simply do not comply with our legal regulations, such as red-and-white red card or anything else. When I look at this, I see that it has been increasing every year since 2010 – there were 16 000 people. In 2014, it was counted 25 500 by October. Before that, 2013, there were 27,000 people who were picked up. Every year, an entire small to medium-sized town of illegals is being attacked in Austria. These are the naked numbers. It can even be seen that some of the border controls – in 2014 they were up to October 387 – were taken. 1 464 people were caught along with tugs. Now I don't know if the 387 have been included in those who were with the tractors. It is often the case that when crossing the border, tugs can also be there. So to what extent these numbers correspond now, I don't know. But there is another question that I have believed may be meaning and purpose of the question, where you say something does not fit, namely question 7. In Question No 7, the questioners wanted to know: “How many people are estimated to be illegally resident in Austria today? “ And then you get the answer: ‘Determinings and assessments are not subject to parliamentary interpolation’. Mrs. Federal Minister! – [[Federal Minister Mikl- Leitner: The Dark Numbers don't know anyone!]] But it is not even mentioned that there are dark figures! And, Mrs. Federal Minister, I hear from you or from the experts of your resort, there are assessments of the terrorist threat, of alarm levels and objects, there are constant assessments. How can I imagine this now if, as a parliamentarian, I want to know here in the framework of the legal control of you, how the assessments are here or there, that I get to answer that these are only estimates that are none of my concern as Members of Parliament – but at every press conference or similar events, there is a lot of self-esteem!Unknown term type: "%s".? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! It might be a little different. It could be called dark figures, because the experts of the house need to know something when they are said: We appreciate that the dark figure is higher, and it will be due to international experience and, and then, about that and so high. There will be valid assessments in the section, even if they are not on point and emphatically the same as the other things. One thing to conclude: Mrs. Federal Minister! You have taken this opportunity to also introduce the security package. From a liberal point of view: We will certainly not do something in this debate. We will certainly not agree that agents of the starving German army will in any way pass to the police in Austria. We have two safety bodies here, which must be clearly separated. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] We reject any blurry and any irrigation in this case.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e16021	Next word: Mrs Mag. Korun. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e16042	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, What the colleague Dietrich has done here is actually very familiar to us from many other debates, not only from the Stronach team, but there is only more and more. This is also known to us by the FPÖ, that has been known to us by the BZÖ, and now the Stronach team plays the same game. I have read the request very carefully and also the answer. “Interesting” – under quotations – is the reason for the request, as it begins with asylum seekers, asylum seekers and asylum seekers. They are then equated with irregular immigration in the next breath. Then it's about to go to crime. And then the closures of police inspections are also touched in. That is not the way to hold a serious debate. However, I also believe that this request and also the request for a debate has not been made to hold a serious debate, neither on asylum nor immigration, nor on crime, nor on police inspection. It's about putting everything in a pot, turning it around and then putting it all in the same way. Ladies and gentlemen, There's not just physical violence. There is also a violence of language, for example, when people, people who are specifically seeking protection, or people with other citizenship who are not seeking protection, are constantly, regularly and deliberately and repeatedly connected with violence, then also the closure of police inspections. First of all, one turns to being hypocritical and says, of course, that people need protection, that we need protection, of course, but then it goes right back to police inspection, to crime and so on and so on. [[Abg. Neubauer: But not the economic refugees!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] How did Mr Petzner, who has been the longtime leader of the FPÖ, formulate the family community, which you too have been listening to for a few years, Mrs Dietrich? – He has said literally, and this is a quote from a magazine of December 2014, from an interview he gave: In the election campaign, I have been “right of every means”,“ also hetze versus marginal groups and minorities”. - Quote. And this attitude is not only rooted in one party, but obviously now in several parties represented in Parliament. One last thought and one last information, because you have touched on the subject of asylum and asylum seekers in this request and also on the question of asylum seekers: In 1956, in the context of the Hungarian crisis, there were 180 000 refugees who took up Austria. In 1986, there were 162,000 people in the crisis in Czechoslovakia at the time. [[Abg. Amon: 68!]] At the beginning of the 1990s, our country took up 90,000 Bosnian refugees. And now, guess how many people last year in Austria have sought asylum! – By the end of November, it was around 23,000 people. [[Abg. Amon: How many Bosnians, how many Czechs and Hungary were it?]] Of course, you could also say, please learn history. I'd have a more urgent request: Please stop the shit! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e16111	The next item is Mrs Schenk's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e16133	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Amon, I would just like to say at the outset that your sector is not exactly well-occupied when you look at it. [[Abg. Rädler: But the debate is necessary because of you!]] Mr Dietrich was just before the Immunities Committee meeting. This Immunities Committee has extra pre-arranged the government parties so that it will not take place sometime after the meeting at midnight or at a later hour. - So much for it. Ladies and gentlemen should know that in front of the TV screens. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Now to the answer to the question: The Minister replied to questions 4 and 5, that there is no corresponding statistics that no relevant statistics are kept in the ministry. Mrs. Minister, I think this is surprising, and that is not precisely justified, especially if you are prepared to justify it with a too high administrative burden and financial effort. If you see that just a week ago – I think it was – your clubman Lopatka could imagine the re-introduction of data storage, then I find that even more worrying. Stock data storage opens the data abuse door and gate, ladies and gentlemen, my dear. It has not, in vain, been tipped as unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] A detail at the edge, which is also not uninteresting: This storage of data has cost us €8 million. We could have used this money much better. The safety and safety needs of the Austrians are at the top of the list of priorities for the Minister of Foreign Affairs, as she always says. But did you once deal with what sense of security, what security need do the Austrians have? Well, if you don't listen to me, you probably can't answer either. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I would like to inform you here that we have commissioned a study at the Human Institute, a study that highlights the subject of security. This study is available on our homepage. And this study shows – perhaps you are interested in the Minister of Foreign Affairs, perhaps – that the security needs of 67 percent of the respondents in Austria are not satisfied by politics. 67 per cent of respondents, my dear friends Ladies and gentlemen! You should listen to those numbers! [[Abg. Amon: How big was the sample?]] – 800, it is a representative survey, dear Mr. von der ÖVP. On the question of the causes of an increased security need, 90 percent of the respondents reported, listening and admiring, the closure of police inspections. 93 percent reported increased crime. Crime is not going back. There are much less ads made because the people are resigned and because the police inspections have also been closed up. Now I would like to address the security package. It has already been mentioned by some previous speakers. 260 million € to 290 million will be made available there. Now I'm asking But she's: Wouldn't it be better in this context to put more trust in the executive officials, namely when it comes to their ability to carry their weapon out of service? We know that it is almost impossible for executives today to get a gun passport so that they can carry the weapon with them. Now I'm wondering, Are the police, the executives not reliable enough? Why can they not carry them outside the service if they carry the weapon in the service? Why is that not possible? An approach here would be that police officers “only” – under quotation marks – also have the right to carry the weapon out of service with the ID card. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Another point I would like to address is that it seems that the police are not really worth the same number or, more precisely, the protection of these police officers is not worth much. Why did you not make sure that all 25 000 police officers were bought protective vests at this high budget? – I mean the ballistic underwear vests, the protective vests easily, one costs 700 €. If one could perhaps make a discount because of the large number, it would be around 12 to 13 million euros. That would have to be inside because the protection of the police must be given, for everyone the same. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e16207	Now Mrs Bundesminister Mikl- Leitner has spoken again. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e16228	A few words by the honourable Member, who has criticised the answer to questions 4 and 5, on the question of how many attacks have been made on routine police controls or on other authorities. I believe that it is very crucial to see how many attacks have ever occurred, no matter what authority it was. This would otherwise have meant a massive administrative effort, would have employed all police inspections from all over Austria. I tell you, here it is much, much more important that the external service presence is guaranteed in order to guarantee security. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] One last sentence: The figures, how many seizures there were, can be found in the answer to the question. That is, we have fulfilled our responsibility to answer your questions. And that was important to us too.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e16272	The next item is the speech by Mr Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e16294	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! You already told us, I just wanted to say the same thing: The figures stand explicitly inside, I do not understand the difference between the different attacks. In principle, I also felt that a request meeting was used to ask questions that were not answered in the request. The question of increasing tow crime has also been clearly answered. The Minister said: No, no, no, [[Demonstrative applause with the ÖVP.]] You can like that politically or not, but it is clearly answered. I have also tried to find out what the background of this debate is, both by reading the answer to the question and by reading the speeches, but it is still not quite clear to me. It's different with the colleague Schenk. It has now become clear to me: It is about the subjective sense of security of the population. Mr Korun has already mentioned what was annoying about Mrs Dietrich's comments: She started with the crime at the tire dealer near her; then we were in the meantime at an African village that put together money to send someone to Austria or to Europe; at the end we were at the terrorist attacks in Paris. That's a little bit for a short debate. I didn't quite understand the connection. That's why it's so difficult to replicate it. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: This is a liberal approach, argumentative!]] – That you're coming from one to the next, isn't it? – There are many things that do not have much to do with the answer to the question. I don't understand, really. If we want to think seriously about why so many people are illegal in Austria – and you're right in many areas, the numbers are there – then we have to think about how we can solve this. You are also right, it is to a certain extent surprising that in Austria, a country that has no external borders, very many asylum seekers who have come here with tractors are here. No question at all. If there is talk of an overwhelming police offer and an attack on tow crime, I do not know how much one can demand to get hold of it. I think the solution is a European one. We need to see at European level that we distribute asylum seekers to quotas. Then we do not have the problem at the EU's external borders, that there are many asylum seekers who have to live under unworthy conditions and then, understandably, come to Austria. It's quite understandable to me. As a general rule, I cannot understand the whole debate. I didn't understand what she was supposed to do. That's why I'm gonna leave it there. I don't really understand it, and I didn't really understand the proposals for solutions either.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e16334	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[18:43:06]] 3rd. Point Report of the Committee on Consumer Protection on Amendment 805/A(E) by Mr Angela Lueger, Mr Angela Fichtinger, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. significant ‘improved communication on food and consumer-related risks’ (388d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e16376	I will resume the negotiations on the points of the regular agenda and open the debate on the 3rd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker was Mr Wurm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e16403	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Believers in the house and at home! We are debating today a motion for a resolution, which was discussed by Red and Black in the last Consumer Protection Committee, entitled ‘Improved communication on food and consumer-related risks’. You write in the explanatory statement: “In the media, reports of risks in everyday life occur regularly, especially in relation to food () such as mercury in fish, pesticides in water or toxic chemicals in toys ( ).” – We consider this application to be a fig leaf application, and I think it’s more about hiding than discovering. Write in the motion for a resolution They also say: “In particular, to improve the information of children and young people in relation to industrially produced food ( )” – What do consumers in Austria want? – You don’t want better communication, but healthy, safe food from the region! Let's take a look back. Just about a year ago, the Food Information Regulation was discussed here and then decided accordingly by red, black and green; and everything that we liberals then prophesied about things that would come with this law has also arrived. Brussels is now monitoring our cooking pots and menus. If you ask representatives from gastronomy, hotel industry and food trade what this Food Information Regulation or Allergen Regulation has caused, then you can only turn your mind on: A red tape monster with no end, you know. Even in the business chamber elections you will experience your blue wonder, because what happened to the time and costs for the entrepreneurs is not going to cow's skin! [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Tiny]] What is the consequence of this?, you have to ask yourself in the field of consumer protection. Where is the improvement and where is this trip going? The trip is exactly where the local suppliers, the traditional Austrian gastronomy, come under the wheels, while the system gastronomy à la McDonald’s naturally benefits and laughs and also industrial agriculture and international food groups laugh. What is happening in the gastronomy? – The supply of food is simply reduced because the effort to hold the allergens is no longer tradable for most gastronomy. The offer of lunch menus is also reduced. It's all going toward standard. The whole creativity, which was actually a strength of Austria in the gastronomy and hotel industry, goes down. And you owe it! Let me give you a little example: Biolandwirt Annahof, direct marketer in Lower Austria, suffers very massively under this new law. I'll give you back what the farmer told you on the phone, I can also call him. He considers this Regulation to be far-reaching and says: It should be clear that cow's milk is an allergen. I now have three more folders in the office. As a small supplier, I have a lot more effort with history than large providers. – Regionality suffers, and he personally is afraid of being led to the smooth. That's what a bio farm says. And it's double bad, because the greens who always fight for all biological purposes in this case actually leave the organic farming and the organic producers in the rain. Another subject, very briefly. The Minister has told me that it will not come, but it has been proved: Also the healthy jause in kindergartens and schools! We read it in the paper today. [[The speaker keeps up to date an issue of the newspaper “Today” with the title “Allergy ID for Healthy Jause in School”.]] You said to me back then, no, we're painting the devil on the wall, that's not going to happen. Of course it happened! For the healthy jause that parents have so far organized for the benefit of children in kindergartens and schools, exactly the same bureaucratic effort must now be incurred. The parents will take care of it. And what will happen? – Our children will receive industrial food in kindergartens and schools, quite clearly. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e16504	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Peter Wurmsoben is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e16593	Mrs Lueger's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e16614	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Wurm, I do not understand what you can have against improved communication. We probably agree that today two thirds of the food is manufactured industrially. And this leads to problems, for example, that children no longer know how an apple tastes. [[Abg. Peter Worm: You have promoted this development!]] And now we are planning to spread more information in this direction as well. That is why we are proposing. I do not agree with you when you say all customers want healthy food from the region. No, I'm not saying that. Many customers now have to focus on their money and cannot afford the high-quality quality of the region, but have to rely partly on industrial food. I don't understand why you shouldn't give an improved information. We know the headlines that often exist in the media where the blood freezes us in the veins: Fish with mercury completely contaminated; the plastic that the children use is extremely harmful to health. That's where we have several problems. On the one hand, consumer protectionists show that, on the other hand, environmentalists warn against dangers, thirdly, those who then write in a footnote in addition or perhaps in a footnote: If you eat 20 kilos of this fish, there's a danger that you'll suffer mercury poisoning. So if you don't try to relativize this, I don't understand the world anymore. The fact that consumers are concerned because there is such a media coverage, although the products we have on the market are subject to very strict rules is something we need to work on. Why don't you put on kids too? As children, we people of my generation have taught our parents that they do not pour old oil into the waste, but collect it and thus go to the oil collection site. I think it is a good approach to start with the children in this case too. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] The second problem we have is that the risk perception of consumers and the top 5 of risks, according to the experts, are absolutely different things. The aim must be to increase information, transparency and the confidence of the population on the one hand, and to increase the risk awareness of people on the other. That is why I am glad and the Minister of the Federal Government is very grateful that she is very active in this direction with her place of business and is now providing assistance on the Internet, with new media, with the student laboratory, with AGES, with the Academy, with the topics of the AGES Journal, to which my colleague will address, so that we can get in the right direction. I am convinced that it is important to restore children and young people to healthy food. But health depends not only on the quality of the foods offered, but also on all living conditions. There you should also inform, and that is the intention of our request. Therefore, try to support it as well.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e16660	Mrs Fichtinger's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e16681	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. High house! The motion for a resolution 805/A(E) deals with improved communication on food and consumer risks. What does that mean? Consumer protection is closely linked to health aspects. Many consumers are uncertain by media coverage. For example, the benefits of many products, whether for improving the quality of life or life expectancy, are no longer embedded in the consciousness of man. In these threat scenarios, which the colleague has just mentioned, which are spread by the media, the speech is often about genetically modified organisms, about radioactivity and pesticides. This perception of dangers by scientists is quite different from that of the population. Our goal must be to inform the population and to improve communication with children, with young people. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: And offer the food! That must be the goal!]] It's a piece of work, of course. I believe that modern communication will certainly come to our aid. I think it is precisely the education of children and young people that gives us the opportunity to prevent diseases caused by poor and wrong diet. In my opinion, of course, the parents have an exemplary and fundamental function here. If healthy and natural food is used in the parents' home, then the children will later become involved in these foods that they have come to know about, of which they know that they are healthy and do them well. I know as mayor myself: Of course, there is a lot to be clarified by the Allergen Regulation, but it is nevertheless an important factor that there is the healthy jause. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] The children learn to deal with the products. They know what's healthy and what's good for them. I have a project myself in my community. In the grocery shop there are products from the municipality, which are marked by a special logo as products from their own region. It is important to convey to people the appreciation of regionally. I know everyone can't. I'm going to experience it myself. Our spa guests are happy that there is such a thing. I know it's not for everyone, but still, it's also a formation of consciousness. In this context, I would like to point out once again that labelling with the AMA seal ensures that Austria is where Austria stands. [[Abg. Steinbichler: You can read this in the folk school!]] [[Rejoicing with the Stronach team.]] It's true anyway. I think you can definitely rely on it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Committee also discussed the question of vegan nutrition and addressed this question. I would like to comment briefly on the concerns. In the case of vegan, vegetarian and non-vegetarian diet, it is of course equally necessary to clarify the quality of the products. I have experienced that people who feed vegetarian, vegan or just quite normal deal more with where the product comes from, so that it is organic and comes from the region. Nevertheless, I give Mr Pirklhuber the right. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: I'm here!]] At the last committee meeting, they said that it was very important to inform consumers, too, in this area. But I believe that it is not only in this area, but it is necessary to keep people/consumers informed again and again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e16765	The honourable Member, Mr Pirklhuber, is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e16786	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Your colleague! I can fully support your conclusions. Information is very important for consumers at all levels. We shall therefore, of course, vote in favour of this motion for a resolution. However, we will also agree with Mr Wurm's request, because I think it is very useful not to evaluate the unheirable allergen regulation and to see how it is implemented. - This is on the front line. [[Congratulation with Greens and FPÖ.]] Mr Lueger and others have pointed out that the risk assessment is very different. Mrs Bundesminister, this has been a bit triggered by media coverage. However, ladies and gentlemen, there are very different evaluation elements of risk, including the question of social impact. These are also things that concern consumers. That is why we see it as problematic when pesticides come into the environment: because it contaminates the water, because we do not know what is actually happening in nature and what negative effects it has on the entire globe. We can prove DDT in Antarctica today. This cannot be indifferent to us, even though we often do not yet know what actual risks are in the individual case for the individual citizen associated with it. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Of course, it is also true that malnutrition is a very essential element or that allergens or pathogenic germs are a problem – an individual problem that the citizen immediately notices. No question, that's not what we want! Both should be seen here. This is the question of overall social impact, but also more individually. This is important to us from the Greens. In this context, I would also like to point out, Mrs Federal Minister, that recent research has produced really interesting, very interesting results with regard to the effect of certain ingredients of food, from so-called secondary plant ingredients on brain development. So brain research has recently said that malnutrition, too much sugar and very high-fat diet, on the one hand also strengthens depression and on the other hand impedes the formation of neurons in the brain, while on the other hand antioxidants, omega 3-fat- acids, flavonoids and curcumin – proven in the meantime; the reported studies of the last four to five years – increase the formation of neurons while improving the learning ability and memory function at the same time. So diet even has a direct effect on our brain. This has been proved recently. That's where I mention organic foods. There are international studies, meta-studies; the study of the University of Newcastle, for example, has also brought a result to what contains organic foods, namely significantly more these secondary plant ingredients. So there may also be links that should also be brought to citizens in this form of communication. I would also like to mention that a new law is in preparation, the EU quality regulation and implementation law, in which it is also intended to concern regional origin. This will not be discussed until the next few weeks or months. But this law should not cause us to have more bureaucracy, but rather to make it efficient and good. I would ask you, Mrs Federal Minister, to pay particular attention to this. Finally, ladies and gentlemen: It would really be time to adopt a quality seal law for Austria. That's an hour's commandment. I can only repeat it again and again: That's just right and necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e16854	Mrs Ing. Dietrich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e16875	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate Mrs Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that consumer protection is becoming increasingly important. In a global world, the consumer no longer has a chance to recognize what is contained in a product on his own, what consequences it has for him when he consumes the product or when he uses consumer goods. If you look at the packaging, you'll see infinity a lot of e-numbers. I don't think anyone here in this house bothers and looks at what's hidden behind these e-numbers. For this reason, it is important that there is an independent inspection body or a control body which controls the quality permanently and thereby gives the consumer safety. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Risk potentials have changed over the last decades, which is a dynamic process. Substances that were once considered safe are now no longer. I also remember DDT, I know that for more than 20 years, quantities of it have been used for various purposes. This has suddenly presented a huge potential for danger on closer consideration. We still estimated plastic a few years ago as safe, we know today that the softeners are not safe in it as far as our health is concerned. Those who follow the HCB scandal in Carinthia know how drastic such an environmental scandal can be for the whole region, how many existences, how many farmers, how many producers hang on it. [[Abg. Wheeler: A green environmental scandal!]] [[Call: absolutely.]] There is an excellent dairy that is threatened in its existence. So these are huge scandals. I am glad and grateful that it is being examined precisely that it is looked at, because the well-being of the consumer is the top priority. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The World Health Organization, which is also very intensive in its work, has now discovered a new potential for danger, namely endocrine disruptors, which are hormone-like substances. This is the global threat since 2012. We see from statistics that the sperm quality of men decreases, that the girls always come to puberty. We know that the frequency of different types of cancer is increasing. It is only after long questions and after long investigations that one comes up with what are the causes of these developments. Ladies and gentlemen! Animal testing is easy, so you can easily prove things. We know today that these hormone-like substances result in behavioural changes, infertility, certain cancers and so on. This is, of course, more difficult for people to prove. Therefore, in this area we need caution, control and, in any case, a wide range of information for consumers, because – and that, I believe, is dangerous to it – these substances are in our everyday commodities. They're in the lipstick, they're in the hair shampoo, they're in the creams, they're in the products we use every day. One study states that each third product contains a hormone-like substance, each fifth product even contains two hormone-like substances. I think that's where we need some information. We must go forward offensively – to protect our consumers!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e16937	Mrs Holzinger is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e16958	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Dear visitors to the gallery, as far as you are still present! Estimated citizens who are on TV and the Internet! Dear Colleagues! In times of a global market, the fears of consumers are growing more and more, not to be able to understand what is actually inside the products they take daily. On the question of where the product comes from at all, the question of what is inside is the second most important. Many are trying to find out. What they learn about the rapid media is often information about substances such as pesticides in water, chemicals in toys, chemicals in plastic; these are the first points you encounter. This leads to the problem that consumer risk perception differs from what the experts say, what is really dangerous for the consumer. If we are thinking of risks from everyday life, in particular food safety, in terms of nutrition, then we all immediately have labels such as additives in food, hormones, residues of medicines in our eyes, but in fact, the experts consider five more important areas as extreme and dangerous to health: This is the misnutrition, as Mr Pirklhuber has already said. There are on the one hand too much sugar and on the other hand too few herbal ingredients. But they are also diseased microorganisms. These are fungal drugs and allergens, not to mention toxic elements at all. That is why information in these areas is of central importance – not to arouse fear, but to clarify and have citizens in this state who recognize themselves, who know what is healthy for them. We do not want – this is addressed to the FPÖ – that the state will somehow lead someone ahead. We don't want the state to say which products you're allowed to eat and which aren't. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] We want the state to clarify and carry out educational work to have citizens who can decide for themselves what is good for them or not. It is now the Federal Ministry of Health and also the AGES, the Agency for Health and Food Safety that they are doing educational work. In order to inform young people so far that as adults they will know what is good for them and what they can, for example, pass on to their children. I therefore call for the support of this motion for a resolution in the interests of consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e17010	Now comes Mrs Mag. Aubauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e17031	Mr President. Estimated Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Each of us is also a consumer, has their own daily experience, is in front of the shelf, cannot read the small font on the packs, the content cannot compare. On the other hand, however, there are reports from the radio of environmentalists in the ear, which pollutants are inside, and at the end of the day there will be again objections from professionals – it has already been addressed – who say that it is not so bad. That means: Yes, we need better risk communication! The dilemma is: On the one hand, there is much too much information, on the other hand, there is often not the decisive information, and you don't see through this entire information forest at all. What does that mean? Do we need more small labels? - I don't think so. The information must be understandable, such as a positive identification: Where Austrian quality insists, Austrian quality must also be inside. That's what we want to be able to rely on! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and Team Stronach.]] We demand in today's proposal that social trends – and this is particularly important to me – such as an ageing society, and changes in the structure of old age in future consumer policy should be more taken into account. Exactly on these questions of an ageing consumer society, the Senior Education Association will hold a conference next week in the ÖVP club with experts. That's what we're going to do. What do older consumers want? What importance can older consumers have for the recovery of the economy? And, interestingly, What new consumption styles do the older ones have in Austria? It's quite clear: If we live longer, that also means we consume longer, we also need more information. This is a task for us in Parliament: Older consumers must be more taken into account in future policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e17076	Next speaker: Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e17098	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear spectators on the gallery and especially on the televisions! I am honestly overwhelmed by my previous speakers, because it finally goes in the right direction, at least from the statements. I am convinced that, with so much approval, actions must follow. I have, of course, allowed myself to go back to the food and nutrition world, and I would like to go from far away to Austria. [[The speaker holds up a glass with gal conifers.]] Of course, it is not a news, such corn slabs, which we have been standing on the jausen table every day or every week, come freshly harvested from China. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] This is once a small objection to regionality. I would like to thank the VKI, the association for consumer information, which has been involved in the fresh fish spit, freshly served in Austrian shops. [[The speaker holds a pack of fish fillet.]] You can already see the color, the fish should not be quite so fresh. When you read the small print, it becomes exciting. It reads: Deeply chilled in the country of origin, thawed up in Austria. – Guys, this has nothing to do with fairness! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinzl.]] This is embarrassing to our consumers. We can't send them with the magnifying glass to really see where the food comes from, as far as you can call it. As the Committee was talking about mercury in fish: Who knows in which bridge, in which antibiotics-breeds, in the Mekong delta the Pangasius fillet has swam, knows that one should no longer say “food” to it. These are the main points: What is really consumed with the food today is going up to the pesticides in the water, but we must not take out fruit and vegetables either. Of course, everything is regional and comes from selected suppliers! That's what we hear on the radio and on TV every day. Then came the mango from Peru, a hundred percent organic quality; then came the fresh Egyptian potatoes, the heurins from Egypt have no means of transport behind them. It's all dreamy! I want to break it down a little 'cause it's already been spoken of by the healthy school jause. [[The speaker introduces a large panel on the speaker's desk, on which on one side is a sausage cream with cucumberl and on the other side are listed food ingredients.]] Thank God there are still children, schoolchildren, who sometimes have a sausage cream from the industrial factory, instead of the muesli bar. And thanks to the highly criticised allergen directive for hostess – an innkeeper in Upper Austria has made it quite intelligent, she has hung out a table: “Eating at your own risk”; this cannot be done by a supermarket – today we have to have 21 lines of description on the risk of allergens in a sausage. Everyone will say – [[Federal Minister Oberhauser: These are food labels! It has nothing to do with allergens!]] This is currently fresh from the supermarket, Mrs. Minister, from today's supermarket. [[Federal Minister Oberhauser: from today's Facebook, but it's an old one!]] Now I can still say – and this is the tragic – everyone would say: For God's sake, a sausage cream, the harmful meat, the harmful sausage, dangerous, butter is also inside! - Or a cucumber. [[Call the SPÖ: A cucumber!]] Thank you. - Now it's coming! Then it becomes tragic, then read the small inscription with the allergen markings. And then at once we know that there is rain forest inside, namely not only in the form of artificial string fat, but in the form of palm fat. [[Abg. Wheeler: Go!]] We enjoy rain forest in our food – not only in the detergents, in cosmetics, in the food substitutes, up to the block heat plants. We destroy rainforest every day with our way of life. [[Abg. Rädler: Where does this come from?]] But then it goes on: Over 20 chemical additives are inside, from emulsifiers to fatty acids, ascorbic acid, sodium nitrite to spice extracts, i.e. chemical substitute spices. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wheeler.]] – Mr Colle- ge, please listen! This is very important for you in your region. You're mayor. – There are antioxidants inside, stabilizers E 450, E 451, E 452, flavor enhancers, sodium glutamate and, of course, a lot of preservatives. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would like to thank all of you, Mrs Aubauer, who has spoken so clearly today, Mrs Fichtinger, for the colleague Holzinger. Mrs Fichtinger, if you always point out that there is an AMA seal for a powerful consumer anyway, then I must say that is such a mini-break part of the current diet. Let's not talk about the quantities of liver cheese, meat cheese, processing products, where everything is put in, but at the end of the day is a red-white-red coat of arms on it. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: That's it!]] I can't do that! We need to talk about the whole thing. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team as well as the Pirklhuber and Schellhorn MP.]] Where does the quantity of precious parts come from? – Go to a guest house with a party, celebrate! That's where 40 guests want to eat 30 pig fillet. Where are the pigs that deliver the pig fillet? – Of course it is imported. We need to talk about it. We need to look at the whole thing. Again and again, the overall view is spoken of. We are too narrow, it is said that we must see the overall view. Especially in the food sector, it is essential to keep in mind, from the point of view of Mr Pirklhuber, that consumer behaviour also has the greatest impact on the development of our children and children. I think we're on the right track. We will, of course, support this bill and develop it as far as possible. Minister! I also ask for the implementation of the long-standing quality seal law. I think it would be a great honor for you as a minister if we could implement it in this legislative period. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e17273	Mr Antoni has now come to speak. - Please. - Wait a minute, please! [[Abg. Steinbichler, standing at the government bank, talks with Federal Minister Oberhauser.]] I would ask that the talks between members of the government and mandates be discontinued in the speech of a colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e17306	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Many examples of the current subject have already been brought by my previous speakers, sometimes very plausible. I would therefore like to draw attention, in particular, to the importance of improved risk communication. Dear ladies and gentlemen! As we all know, our media regularly report on possible risks related to food and consumer products. This sometimes also leads to uncertainty, although – and I would like to say that – our products in Austria bear witness to very high quality and safety. However, this also means that the assessment of risks in the public sector often does not correspond to the actual risk. However, it also says that the risks are partly assessed differently by the experts and consumers. I also think that new technologies and rapid developments in the food sector are further factors for increasing uncertainty, and precisely these rapid changes in the field of development may also leave far too little room for communication. Therefore, it is so important for us to promote a consumer-friendly communication policy in the future. Accordingly, in the present motion for a resolution, our Minister for Health is asked to provide information on the different perceptions of the risks of experts and consumers. I think risk communication is becoming increasingly important, especially in this area. Its goal for the future must be to strengthen the confidence of the population and to promote risk awareness through information, especially through transparency. I think it is also an essential task to raise awareness of real risks and to help in the event of alleged risks, to reduce fears and to provide specific quality information to consumers. We will, of course, support the request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e17346	The next speaker is Mrs Diesner-Wais. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e17367	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The quality and safety of the food are important to our forest-fourthers – it is now the third Waldviertler. Every day, however, we are at risk of scandals about consumer goods, whether children's toys, cosmetics or food, as we hear and read in the media. The consumer is often really helpless because he fears that what is on it is not necessarily inside. There are many synthetic additives in which he does not know himself. As a forest-fourtler farmer, I can only tell you that we are trying in agriculture and make the greatest effort to take into account the quality requirements of consumers. It is also noted that more and more people are buying directly from farmers, for they know that they are supporting farmers and securing jobs in the region. You know how the products are produced, and the transport routes are short. Regional products are therefore very valuable and important for many people. It is also important, of course, that the AMA quality mark, the origin mark is further made known, because it is a guarantee for this, and that the processed products have an exact designation of origin. I am particularly pleased that the children are already being well informed. There is a very great project, “School at the farm”, where the children are really taken to the farm where they are shown how a product is produced, how a product tastes. In this sense, I hope that we can already inform children in particular so that they can become mature consumers in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e17400	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does Mr Rädler want a final word? - That's not the case. We come to the vote on the resolution on ‘improved communication on food and consumer-related risks’ attached to the Committee’s report 388 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. (E 63.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Peter Wurm, colleagues in relation to the evaluation and amendment of the bureaucratic food information regulation. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is rejected. [[19:24:26]] 4. Point Report of the Standing Subcommittee on European Union affairs on the project within the framework of the European Union in accordance with Art. 23rd B-VG on 10972/14 – Council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directive 2001/18/EC as regards the possibility granted to Member States to limit or prohibit the cultivation of genetically modified organisms (GMOs) on their territory (32809/EU XXV.GP) (443d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e17464	We're now on the 4th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e17491	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Austria is free of genetic engineering in cultivation. Austria also wants to remain free of genetic engineering in agriculture. There is broad consensus in this respect in our country. Consumers do not want genetic engineering in food and agriculture, and farmers themselves do not want to use genetic engineering. However, it is true that genetically modified varieties – maize varieties and others – are authorised in the European Union, so-called GMOs or GMOs, genetically modified organisms. Austria has occupied these varieties with a national ban on cultivation – so far, so good – that is, these varieties must not be grown with us. However, this has always been a legal grey area and has disturbed the European Commission. The European Commission has repeatedly requested that these national bans be tipped. So it was in spring 2009 when I was Environment Minister for a few months: The European Commission, for the fourth time, proposed that Austria's national GMO bans be tipped. At that time, we succeeded in defending these bans – a qualified majority of the Member States are needed, and some have said there should be genetic engineering. I managed to defend that, but I thought at the time: It cannot be said that a Member State of the European Union is, as it were, required to use genetic engineering to a certain extent, although it does not want genetic engineering. As a result, we have formulated the right to self-determination on the issue of genetic engineering. Each Member State should have the right to determine for itself what its fields, fields and meadows happen – and we just reject genetic engineering. We formulated that at the time. The title of our application was: ‘Geneticly Modified Organisms – A Way Forward’. [[The speaker shows a document.]] That is, it's a step forward, not a step back if we say we don't want to use genetic engineering. Austria introduced the initiative at the time, we were supported by the Netherlands, in particular by eleven other countries, Eastern European countries, including Hungary, Slovenia, Poland and Bulgaria. The great breakthrough has been achieved when a few months later Commission President Barroso took this right of self-determination in relation to GMOs into his programme for the European Commission and said: Yes, a Member State should be given the opportunity to comply with this. Under the Danish Presidency, there has been a compromise proposal that has failed with the resistance of the major countries – Germany, France, Spain, United Kingdom. The support of one of these major states would have been necessary, then it could have been carried out. In the meantime, Andrä Rupprechter succeeded in drawing up England, so there has been a majority in the Council of Ministers, and finally this was decided together with the European Parliament. Elli Köstinger has been very active from the Austrian side. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What's on the list now? – There is a two-stage procedure, the possibility of opt-out. That is, if a GMO variety is authorised, a Member State can say that it is opting out, and that, in addition to the normal risk assessments planned, in addition to health and environmental aspects, it can also justify aspects of traditional agriculture, socio-economic aspects and so on. That is to say, this is a good compromise, which also takes into account the possibility of prohibiting varieties already authorised on its territory. Now to the result: There will be a directive of the European Union, we must decide national implementing laws to ensure this. That's where the federal states support us. Finally, I would like to say that genetic engineering offers opportunities. Not only do we want this for environmental reasons, but the freedom of genetic engineering also offers economic opportunities. There are seed companies in Austria that export seed abroad, because there is no genetic engineering in Austria. There is the project Donau Soya, because we want to replace genetically modified soya imports from America and raise soya production in Europe. And we do not want genetic engineering in the food sector and are there in partnership with Austrian consumers. This is therefore an important step – a way forward – for Austria to ensure our agriculture as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e17564	Mrs Mag. Muttons. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e17586	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we expressly welcome the new directive on genetically modified foods. We have a clear position in Austria, there is a very broad, clear consensus – from consumers to farmers to politics: We don't want genmais, we don't want gene potatoes and we don't want any other genetically modified fruits or vegetables, we all agree. With this new rule, we now finally have a clear legal basis to be able to implement this will safely. Security has so far failed. They can all remember the battle for Genmais 1507, how difficult it was to keep him away from our fields. There was always the discussion with the Commission that wanted to allow the Genmais, the fear that a majority of the European states could vote in favour of approval, and we always had to hope that there would be enough like-minded states for a blockade. This uncertainty is over with this new directive. With the so-called exit clause, we can decide in Austria alone whether to grow genetically modified plants or not; but not only that: The new directive also requires that all countries growing genetically modified foods should in future establish so-called buffer zones at their borders. This has finally given our non-genotechnic agriculture more protection and a secure European legal framework. I would like to thank both the government and our EU Members who have been very committed to this reform. Of course, we could have imagined an even better result. For Austria, a Europe-wide ban on the cultivation of genetically modified foods would have been the best solution, for which we also made ourselves strong in Brussels. However, an overall ban is unfortunately not a majority in the EU. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Not yet!]] As is the case in other areas, for example in the nuclear question, there are unfortunately also a number of states that do not share our reservations. We must accept that now, but we will continue to fight. We have achieved what was possible at the moment, and I believe that we can be very satisfied. Whether plants genetically modified on Austrian fields are grown or not, that depends on us alone in the future, and that is good because we don't want that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e17622	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Schrangl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e17644	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the High House and at home in front of the screens! It is good that the European Union gives us something back from our sovereignty and that we can decide for ourselves. I think it is Austrian consensus that we do not want genetically modified foods, no genetically modified seeds, no genetically modified organisms in general. This is also rejected by most of the population. And now, let's assume that Austria will pack this possibility in the kick and ban the cultivation – that's what I'm going to do. This ban must be designed in such a way that an American large group cannot therefore come and claim that it has been damaged by this ban on cultivation in Austria, and then perhaps wants to sue damages from the Republic – perhaps even before a private arbitration court à la TTIP, because we do not know, or nobody in the public, actually know what could be covered by these private arbitration courts within the scope of TTIP. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: (keeping a document in height) There's already a study on it!]] – Yes, there is already a study; You'll say that, very well! We must therefore examine very carefully in this law that it cannot be interpreted in such a way that it does not result in a case of liability for the Republic afterwards. In connection with TTIP, I have already said that we should not abandon our good Austrian food standards by other obligations, but carry them out into the world. Therefore, as my previous speaker said, our goal should be – and I believe it is also our goal – that the cultivation of GMOs be banned not only in Austria but throughout the European Union. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I hope for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e17700	The application is sufficiently supported and properly submitted and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e17762	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e17783	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister! This is in itself an agenda item where we have consensus, there are only pro-redners, and it is really a day, an opportunity to make a joyful policy, even if results often leave a long wait. Max Weber said that politics is the drilling of thick boards, and in this case it is true. It is above all a successful drilling of hard, thick boards, and it is a huge political success for the Austrian population. That's really the special thing, because – let's remember! – In 1997, 1.2 million Austrians have clearly said against genetic engineering in popular desire, we do not want three things: We want a ban on the production and sale of genetically-treated foods in Austria, we do not want to release GMOs and we do not want any patents on life or beings! A large part of this has been safeguarded at European level in recent months, so to speak. That was a long way. I would like to mention a few stations: In 1998, a citizens' initiative prevented an attempt to release genetic maize in Burgenland; Pioneer at the time. 2001 – let us remember! – had placed Pioneer contaminated seed on the market. In Upper Austria, 6 000 hectares of genetically contaminated crops have been plowed; Colleagues Auer remembers himself. This was a shock to the farmers, at the time there were compensations for it. And what was the result of this scandal? – We have introduced zero tolerance for seeds in Austria – a major milestone in the generation of non-genotechnic seeds in Austria, including for Europe. [[Abg. Auer: Upper Austria Pioneer!]] – Upper Austria was a pioneer, quite right, colleague Auer! In 2003, the Greens succeeded in moving into the Upper Austrian state government, and precisely this year, in November 2003, Upper Austria has felt the spring with ten other regions the alliance of the GMO-free regions – yes, thank you, that is right. [[Abg. Auer: forget Landesrat Stockinger!]] [[Further call at the ÖVP:Stockinger!]] Mr Stockinger and the Landesrat Anschober, both of them have fought very successfully in their respective areas. Why? – Because they have worked with environmental organisations from the beginning, this is also a good success concept from then on. How many regions are in the Alliance today? – 62 regions! Bavaria, which has long resisted, has joined the Alliance as one of the last regions. So we see, we can move something together. I would like to say one more thing about the statements made by former Minister Berlakovich: He referred to the right of self-determination. - Yeah, that's right. Who actually initiated this? I would like to remind you that the first to ask for this were the Greens, the Austrian Greens. At that time, in 2006, we used the conference on co-existence in Vienna and organized a European demonstration with NGOs, with many farmers, with environmental organisations across Europe. At this conference, the Vienna Declaration for a Non-Generine Europe was prepared and Commissioner Fischer Boel was handed over. – That was 2006. ==References== In July 2008, we decided here in Parliament the first joint five-party application for the right of self-determination of the non-genotechnic regions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] I am of course pleased, Mr Berlakovich, that you, as Minister of Agriculture – you have then become Minister of Agriculture in December – have carried on this decision of the National Council at the European level. We then had a long phase in which it looked as if it would be a Trojan horse, as if with this right of self-determination the companies were granted superfluous rights. There were many negotiations, many discussions and, thank God, proposals for improvement, so that the European Union's legal regulation now had a positive opinion and was decided by Parliament and the Council and also seen as positive by us. What remains to be done, ladies and gentlemen? What are the future projects? – First, the authorisation procedure needs to be reformed in principle. EU Commission President Juncker also promised. Secondly, there is a need for a massive increase in the use of non-genotechnic feed. Mr Berlakovich has addressed the genetic engineering-free soya project in the Danube region. This needs full support in the next few years, but this does not only apply to soya, but also to other protein foods. Thirdly, the whole of Europe must become free of genetic engineering in cultivation. We also have a lot to do for this, so let's look ahead. To that end, I would just like to mention: The application submitted by the FPÖ is in itself redundant. We have already decided on this in the EU Subcommittee. But, of course, if the request is made here in plenary, we will also give our assent. Of course, the whole of Europe should become free of genetic engineering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e17849	Next, Mr Ertlschweiger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e17871	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear TV viewers! Colleagues Pirklhuber of the Greens has said a lot of right things, which can only be underlined. I believe that policy must in principle be governed by the principle that framework conditions are primarily designed to further develop and not hinder the bio-agricultural sector. I was very pleased that there is a broad consensus in the EU Subcommittee on genetic engineering freedom. This is important and corresponds to the presentation of the Austrians. The fact that EU Member States and regions are now able to prohibit the cultivation of genetically modified plants for environmental reasons is certainly a milestone on the way to a GMO-free future in Europe, because this directive – and we have heard it today – will ensure that no genetically modified organisms can be grown on our domestic farmlands in the future. This is a first step towards making Europe generally free from genetic engineering. Just recently, two days ago, I think, the Hungarian Minister for Agriculture has again articulated and said: I would like to make the whole of Europe free from genetic engineering. I would also like to make such a clear statement from our department-responsible Andra Rupprechter. I haven't heard it until now. I would like such a clear confession. [[Congratulations to Mr Pirklhuber and Mr Schenk.]] This goal of a free genetic engineering Europe is, of course, still a long way off. If we really want to realize this, we also need to create incentives and incentives for ecologicalisation on the part of policy. A signal and a clear sign to all farmers would be to convert the procurement for schools, kindergartens and hospitals to organic products. This would be a clear sign and certainly an incentive. It is very crucial for us consumers that there should be clear and strict labelling rules. We have already heard of this today, both in terms of production standards and in terms of origin. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, where organically insists in Austria, must also be organic in it, in all facets. The consumer must be able to distinguish clearly and easily decide which product he buys, which product he introduces to his family on the table. Another important aspect is that organic agriculture should be a clearly communicated model. I mean that, in the medium term, Austria's agriculture needs to be heard even more ecologically and equipped with stronger incentive systems, because it is a fact that organic farming is best carried out with a small-structured, alpine and tourism-oriented country – with Austria. We don't have to reinvent the wheel, we just have to act. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wenninger.]] The facts are on the table. Ecological agriculture is good for people. She's good for the environment. Environmental agriculture is good for the climate and also for biodiversity and many other things. And, of course, what is also very interesting from a market economic point of view: It offers extremely large market opportunities in export. But the prerequisite is, as always in the economy: You have to be innovative. One must be innovative and must not lose the pioneering role. Then you will also remain competitive internationally. Let me also say a few words about the genetically modified organisms. In my opinion, there is no compromise. There must be no compromise, just like in the case of nuclear power. That's where you have to say: Yes or no. As regards CMO: Mr Berlakovich said today that CMO is and remains a risk technology in the field of food production. That must be known to all of us. The central question we must ask ourselves must not be: How can we increase the yield of a crop under certain conditions? How can a particular plant protection product be applied to a plant? The central question that we must ask ourselves as consumers must be: How can we produce healthy and safe food with a simultaneous maximum of sustainability and resilience? I say to you one, ladies and gentlemen, also as the father of two children: We owe it to our children and future generations and nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e17943	I call Mr Pock. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e17964	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! I would first like to refer to the original item on the agenda, which we, of course, support as NEOS. We have not had as long time as the Greens to fight for the self-determination of the national states, but of course they would have been in the same position from the beginning. However, I would also like to address the request made by the liberals, which I believe is exactly contrary to today's item on the agenda. If we in Austria are committed to establishing ourselves through our national state, we must also grant this right to all other national states in the European Union. That is why we cannot stand for or support a ban at European level. In the same breath, however, I would like to go a little further on this issue. We say Austria is free of genetic engineering in cultivation. We have a subject for which I do not think we have a solution in politics at the moment, in terms of processed products. In this respect, labelling could be much clearer. When international ingredients are imported into Austria, it is not clear to the consumer that the total mass of the product is free of genetic engineering. However, meat production is actually more important. At present, neither as Austria nor as a European Union can we really make meat production free from genetic engineering. This is because we have too much meat – and this has been said by Mr Kogler in the morning. We should – and this is certainly an issue that Austrian agriculture is carrying out, but with which one can also move forward in the European Union – win further areas of cultivation, which are still available in south-eastern Europe and Eastern Europe. The area in total – Mr Auer, of course, will not go out in total. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] We need to know that in terms of area we need about four times what we have within Europe. One must be positive about the fact that we currently have individual projects that do not solve the whole problem, like Donau Soya, which is under test. We support this project. Finally, I would like to say that we do not wish for a ban. There is currently a project in Parliament called Foresight, in which Technological impact assessment is carried out. That is, whenever we discuss a ban, be it genetic engineering, whether it be nuclear energy or fracking, where we naturally support Parliament's opinion, we wish to be a parliamentary group, that we have a separate job in Parliament, which can clearly provide us with information on follow-up costs, and that we also have annual reporting in the National Council to what extent these technologies have changed so that we can discuss this again. - Thank you and a nice evening.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e18016	Mrs Oberhauser spoke on a point of view. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e18037	Mr President. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request for an early vote on the request for an early Values Advisors! It is a beautiful report that is taken note of, in fact, in which everyone in this House was involved in any way, would have liked to have been involved, as the last speaker of the NEOS has just said, or indeed, and this must be said quite clearly, as Minister Berlakovich and Minister Stöger – both were in office at that time – have done more or less in Brussels. But we do not make this clear from our own opinion, but, as Mr Pirklhuber has already said, in 1997 1 225 790 Austrians decided quite clearly that they do not want genetic engineering in Austria. I believe that no matter how old these people feel – and I think that the number of opponents should have taken account of them since then, because we know how the consequences of genetic engineering are often, and even increased, of course. It is true that, as Mr Pock has said, if we want to have the sovereignty ourselves and say that we want to decide whether we grow genetic engineering or not, then of course others do not buy it. However, if you have learned how lobbying works in Brussels, you know that it can happen very quickly that another lobby from Brussels overtakes if you do not try to convince the others of his opinion and of what you think is right. [[In the case of the European Parliament, the Council of Ministers of the European Union and the Commission of the European Communities and the European Economic and Social ……]] That is why, I believe, it is a good proposal that has come from the FPÖ that we should consider whether we should not be more committed in Brussels. At least you have my word that, when we talk about this question in Brussels, we will, of course, bring it up with tapet, that I, as Minister of Health, wish that all Europe, even the whole world, is free of genetic engineering, because I also believe that we owe our children that they have healthy food, regional food, and that we should have genetic engineering freedom throughout Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e18076	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e18098	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! This topic of genetic engineering is actually being discussed very controversially worldwide. In America and Canada, we know that this is offensive and the genetic engineering is being forced. In Germany the arguments have already turned again and this offensive has long been dampened. In Austria we have a clear position, we say it also goes without genetic engineering. That is why we welcome this decision, which has been taken in the European Parliament, where the right of self-determination of the Member States is defined accordingly. ==References== In July 2010, the European Commission presented to the Council a proposal to amend the Release Directive, and decisive for this Commission proposal was the initiative of Austria and the Netherlands in 2009 in the Environment Council. And I can thank Niki Berlakovich, who was a minister at the time, very much for initiating this. [[Interference of Federal Minister Oberhauser.]] – Niki Berlakovich was represented in the Environment Council. [[Federal Minister Oberhauser: Yes, yes,!]] There were then discussions, there was a rejection and it finally followed on 13 November. January 2015 the compromise, the decision in the European Parliament, which we are discussing today. And with these new rules, EU countries will be able to provide a number of reasons to enforce the ban on cultivation of genetic engineering plants in the future. So far, there have only been regulations in the individual federal states with so-called genetic engineering precautions laws, the first is in Salzburg on 1 January. ==References====External links== Consumers, ladies and gentlemen, do not want genetic engineering and consumers can rely on us. Farmers do not need genetic engineering, they do not want to rely heavily on seed groups, and farmers can rely on us. When I speak here as a farmer's federal representative, I say that it is good that we Members not only have solid roots in the population, but that we are also far-reaching to the EU Parliament. And Elli Köstinger was substantially involved in the outcome of this decision. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Pirklhuber and Mr Auer.]] In any case, countries must also ensure that other products are not contaminated and contamination does not cross national borders. My objective goes even further, and from my point of view there must be further steps: Labelling of food containing GMOs, particularly in connection with TTIP, in order to enable consumers to distinguish clearly between non-genotechnic and non-genotechnic products. We, the farmers in Austria, produce the best food of high quality, and the focus of our agricultural policy is on farmers' family farms, and they are strengthened accordingly by this adjustment.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e18149	Mr Ehmann. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e18171	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! This item on the agenda is essentially about the self-determination of the Member States of the European Union regarding yes or no to the cultivation of genetically modified organisms, say plants. Already in the last legislative period, there has been a motion for a resolution in this House of five parties, and Austria should, of course, remain free of genetic engineering in the future. Austria was also a co-initiator within the Union of the proposal to amend this directive, as we have already heard, an agreed overall Austrian position is thus given. Simply explained: By inserting two new articles in the existing directive are intended to be the opt-out of GMO cultivation in the state territory. Thus, it is possible to exclude parts or even the entire territory from the geographical scope of the authorisation of cultivation. This is supposed to work over two phases. The first phase involves sending to Brussels or the European Union the wish to opt out. In phase two, if a company does not provide a veto, the Member State concerned would have to submit a statement of reasons within 30 days, which is not necessary before. That means nothing but: So far, it has been possible to grow genetically modified organisms everywhere under EU law, i.e. plants; we have just decided on genetic engineering freedom in Austria, and the opt-out will also allow us to get out of here. In addition, as has already been mentioned, countries that grow genetically modified plants, whose overruns to neighbouring states, are to prevent. ==References== An agreement was reached on this subject at the level of the European Union in the course of a negotiation last December. Of course, the compromise reached with regard to genetic engineering is very welcome for Austria, for we have been fighting for years. The vision, however, will remain to achieve a free genetic engineering Europe, as Mr Pirklhuber and Mr Ertlschweiger have already mentioned in their speeches. Of course, my thanks goes to the main initiators such as the then responsible Federal Minister Stöger and the current Federal Minister Sabine Oberhauser, but also to the Federal Minister other than service Berlakovich and Federal Minister Rupprechter. Since I am allowed to deal with the issue of food safety on the part of the SPÖ club, I also wish myself a future free of genetic engineering in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e18216	Next speaker: Mr Dipl.-Ing. Straster. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e18237	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! Very soon: For me, this decision by the European Parliament is primarily a sign that a small country like Austria can be very successful in the European Union, in the international context, in the sense of our consumers, in the sense of our farmers. It is a success for Austria, but it is also a success for the European Union. Mr Pirklhuber, I would like to go back two years in your time series, to the year 1995, and I can remember very well that the Greens have certainly driven an interesting campaign against the European Union, against Austria's accession to the European Union, and now... [[Abg. Pirklhuber: 1995?]] [[Abg. Pirklhuber: to protect agriculture then!]] Mr Pirklhuber, please let me speak. In the meantime, you, Mr Pirklhuber, or the Green Party are quite glowing Europeans. [[Abg. Brosz: What did the campaign say?]] A little bit reminds me of the TTIP negotiations today. I would just like to see more materiality there, so that you don't get back in the way that you're against something first and then become almost glowing advocates again. [[Abg. Brosz: What is the name of the campaign?]] Mr Pirklhuber, I think you are a glowing world citizen, and so I simply wish you more materiality in the TTIP discussion. And to the comments of Mr Schrangl a very briefly thought: It is a difference between legal standards and the debate on investment protection. I'm looking for you, look. You're looking at the topics a little bit more precisely! That would be very, very good for the objectivity in this House. – Thank you very much and very much!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e18314	Mrs Mag. Grossmann. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e18341	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, the compromise now found at EU Council level is certainly a step in the right direction and a success of Austria. Before you get too much into discussion, we should be able to be happy together here because it is really a joint success of Austria. If Austrian representatives in the various bodies, whether the Council or Parliament, but also COSAC, parliamentary meetings and so on, agreed somewhere, regardless of party membership, then there were two topics that are in the foreground: These are the rejection of nuclear power and the rejection of genetically modified foods. I've experienced this a few times. There we were often almost a little smiled exodus and exodus in international context. That changed with Fukushima, a very sad occasion. And especially in the field of genetic engineering, our representatives in the Council – as it is always particularly difficult; in Parliament it is easier – could carry out timely convincing work. The Quasi self-determination right is certainly welcome, but not enough. That's what I'm saying in all clarity. Although we can be satisfied, we should not be overly self-satisfying. There is still a lot to do, especially when it comes to Europe-wide product labeling, so that consumers can really orient what they buy. I am also pleased with the hope-promising signals from the ÖVP. So it is about really clear, clear product labels instead of just some encrypted signs and digits that are hardly recognizable with a free eye, so that the consumer, the consumer, can also really recognize genetic-free products – not only in raw products, but also in processed products. This is where we have signs of gaps that we should conclude together. This would also mean a competitive advantage for Austrian agricultural products, because I am sure that European consumers as a whole prefer non-genotechnic products if they are offered accordingly. Here Austria is certainly a pioneer country. I am pleased about this common consensus, and it is a truly hopeful sign that it pays off to join forces for the interests of Austria and, above all, for the interests of consumer protection and the environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e18378	No one is reporting on this. Does the rapporteur, Mr Ehmann, want a final word? - That's not the case. The debate is closed. We are now voting on the request of the Standing Subcommittee on European Union affairs to take note of its report 443 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Schrangl, colleagues on a general ban on GMO cultivation in the European Union. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is rejected. [[20:04:30]] 5. Point Report by the Committee on Equal Treatment on Amendment 444/A(E) by Mr Wolfgang Zanger, colleagues, on measures to abolish I-I (392 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e18439	We're now on the 5th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Zanger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e18466	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The I-I has been following us for a long time, not only in the last year, where the discussion has broken off, but it has been controversial since its introduction. In the previous year, the Austrian Standardisation Institute presented a draft for the text design guidelines. And this draft has made it impossible to use the I-I anymore, since it is not justified by a system of spelling. So a very clear opinion from the Normierungsinstitut, which, of course, has created a correspondingly fierce political debate in the following time. But it has not only found that the internal I is illegal, but also spellings such as the elevated “in” at Dr.in or the elevated “a” at Mag.a, because it is just about abbreviations and thus the end of a word is defined. So a draft with a sense of mind, which was absolutely comprehensible to every citizen who uses his house mind – and I think there is often much more outside than there. In the middle of the year, an open letter was also published in the “Kronen Zeitung”, I believe, which was signed with a large number of signatures, all of which were language critics, who have actually supported this logical draft and who have observed that this separate gender formulation, which is prescribed from above, which would trigger this inner I, would permanently destroy our grown German language culture or language structure. This letter also called for the abolition of I-I in addition to some other measures. If you talk to the citizens on the street or talk about it in the circle of relatives, acquaintances, friends, the rejection of this linguistic untruth is enormous and feels at well over 90 percent. And most of all, what's going on is that: The reason why it came to this I-I is ideologically marked, it is supposed to convey to us that the role of women or the perception of women is much more focused. But none of the citizens can start anything with this, because the reactions I was able to perceive were those that a woman is not defined by a spelling, but rather by completely different circumstances, and that such a capital letter in the middle of a word, which, as it were, constitutes a renunciation of the language, is not necessarily worthy of women and rather causes the opposite. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Especially when talking to parents about students, the theme is how it looks in the school books today. And I'd like to give you an example that you might know, but it doesn't matter what I mean. In a Volksschulebook, the task is to read the following: One is a listener, the other is a reader. One/r reads the section that summarizes the listener. The pre-reader must indicate whether the summary was correct. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: The poor Stenographical Service! That's where you break your fingers!]] - Yeah, you can write this off of me, you don't have to write it. [[For the photography]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] If one then remembers that in our widths one hears and speaks again and again of meaningful reading and thus presents a text to a folk student who then has a task to deal with, well, then I would say once: Everyone should try it on his own once, whether he knows when he hears what is meant. I think the least will be able to keep up with it. So I would really like to see those who reject our request, arguments as to what this has to do with easier readability and understanding. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It must also be remembered that in our schools we no longer only have purely German-speaking children, but very many with migration background and non-German mother tongue, who learn our language as a foreign language. Of course, a high goal, the German language is already difficult enough to learn in international comparison, and it does not necessarily make such constructions easier. I think we should let reason take action there and leave things out, at least in school books or where it really leads to a lack of understanding. In view of the short speaking time, I no longer want to address the injustices of this I-I. I am thinking only of the higher educational institutions, where you are being judged worse if you do not genderize in your work, et cetera. We are now talking about freeing texts in the administration and in the laws that have become unreadable, or just in the books of schools from these ungetums. I can only say it, I'm sorry, it's not supposed to be less of you, the women, the women should not feel attacked, but that's really something to look at with home mind. I'm afraid you'll reject it, we know it anyway. But let us perhaps try to get to a discussion where we look at this with our house mind, and let us see that in the sense of our beautiful German language we are making such unreadable texts again understandable to the citizens! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e18533	I announce: Mr Pock has withdrawn the request for a first reading on Amendment 842/A by Mr Pock, colleagues, item 11. That is why the debate on this item on the agenda is not going to take place, and I will make the assignment of this request to the technical committee. Mrs Mag.a Grossmann has now come to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e18565	Thank you, Mr President, also for the gender-based language! They manage to say “Magist ra. ” Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Dear colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen! In the same way, I would like to point out that there is no legal obligation to use I-I, and therefore a law to abolish I-I is totally void. There are also various ways of expressing a gender-friendly language. Overall, I would like to say that while a gender-based language is only a small aspect of a gender-righteous society, it is not a more negligible one. Equal pay for equal work, fair division of family obligations, violence prevention, fair representation of women in politics, economics and society, and much more are our priority and are also far greater challenges and concerns, but a gender-based language should be a matter of course, on which we do not have to discuss and debate for a long time. Interestingly, I note this over and over again, but I would like to debate particularly thoroughly those who also torpedo the rights of women on every occasion, in order to accuse those who are consistently committed to the rights of women that they have no other concern. You experience this again and again, not only within this house, but also outside the various circles. Ladies and gentlemen! Language creates awareness, and this needs to be learned as early as possible, best in school, so that no one can say later that he or she has learned nothing more after school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e18598	Mrs Schenk. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e18620	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The I-I is once again busy with us. I believe that the internal I and the use of internal I do not bring any more women in Austria, neither more wages nor more recognition, nor more equality. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and FPÖ]] On the contrary, it leads to the punishment of ladies and gentlemen, boys and girls if they do not use the I-I in their work. The previous speaker has just carried out that there is no legal basis for this. The FPÖ does not explicitly demand a law, but wants to bring movement into this debate. And this is not only about the FPÖ's request, but also about the 800 people, where, among others, constitutional expert Heinz Mayer was involved, which have sent a letter to you, Mrs Minister, and to your colleagues, Mitterlehner, in which they demand a return to linguistic normality. This request, ladies and gentlemen, I can fully agree. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and the FPÖ representatives.]] However, I would like to come to the bad situation mentioned earlier, namely if the rector of a Vienna University of Applied Sciences says that it is worse to note if the internal I is forgotten or not used. This is not about the content orientation, but only about whether or not the I-I is used. And here I would also like an adequate information from you, ladies and gentlemen, about the supporters, what they say about this obvious evil. This is not just about us or about the FPÖ, as I mentioned earlier, I can also remind you that last week, on the 12th. Janen, the Federal Board of Directors of the parent associations held a press conference at the secondary and higher schools. Yes, and see: What's that call for? Among other things, this press conference also supported the fact that “the generation led to increasing illegibility of the texts. ” And if you see here that every fourth youth cannot read meaningfully and the I-I leads to a further deterioration in reading quality, then, ladies and gentlemen, there is a great need for information here. And I'd ask you to get out of here and explain this to us. And not just us, because you don't have to convince us, but you have to convince the voters outside, of whom you want to be elected again.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e18674	This is what Mrs Le Pen has to say. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e18695	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would like to say in advance that I find it almost a bit strange if we consider in times when it is about deregulation, where we consider what laws we need, whether we need a law that prohibits the I-I, but be around it. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Schwentner as well as congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I particularly noticed a sentence in the proposal of the Standardisation Institute, which reads: “The language serves the unchallenged understanding” – d’accord – “and not the achievement of dubious political objectives.” I therefore find this particularly exciting, because one can conclude that equality between women is also a questionable political objective with linguistic means. If this is the opinion of the lady from the standardisation institute, it is already strange, but if it also supports people who sit in a legislative body, then I think it is quite exciting. I am with all those who say written must be legible, and of course this applies in particular to a reading book of the folk school. I do not think the example that you have brought, Mr Zanger, is good, I think it is terrible. But the Minister can certainly influence this because children need to learn to read. Maturants, for example, can deal with this very safely. Another sentence in this report was that the I-I has not yet helped anyone to get a job. There you could say now fluffily, the I-I has probably no one offered a job. [[Congratulations on Members of the ÖVP, SPÖ and Greens.]] The fact is, there are a few things about equality that should be improved. To pass a law that prohibits the I-I-I I, I think I'm quite covered. And if you already regulate it uniformly, ladies and gentlemen, please no longer in the proposed 500-year-old version: We take the male form again, and the women are commonplace. Let's turn it around: Let us take the female form and mean the men, because in the female form the male is already included! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e18750	Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Aygül Berivan Aslan. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e18774	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! When someone says “Mr. Professor”, that sounds strange. But if someone says "Woman Professor", it sounds normal for most because we have grown up in a male designation world. Or another example: “The student” means nothing but the man who studies. [[Abg. Singer: But!]] A man can assume that he is automatically involved in this masculine form, of course, he is still commonplace. [[Abg. Beautiful:... someone who is studying!]] Women must consider: Am I here now or not? The male professional name is primarily understood in the brain and also in perception as a man. For this reason, women cannot be included in the male name either. Women are subject to subtle discrimination. [[I should like to congratulate the Greens and SPÖ, ÖVP and NEOS representatives.]] The gender-friendly language is primarily about the visibility of women. It's about social perception. Language affects gender equality. Language influences our thinking. If women are not explicitly mentioned, they are not considered. There is also no reasonable reason to be little flexible here. Some call both sexes, there are binder variants and that variant with the big I. What form is practical for the future will then crystallize with time. In spite of these findings, if you are making attempts of a gender-rightful language ridiculous or aggressive against it, you do not need to be surprised if you are accused of having equal rights simply wrested. If Mr. Zanger is hard to read with texts, I can buy him a picture book. Maybe he can find this gender form then somehow. [[Call the FPÖ:Go, please!]] [[Abg. Schimanek:...! How is that supposed to be a six-year-old?Unknown term type: "%s".?]] It is really a pity, a pity for my speaking time and a pity for my working time. Last year you did nothing but deal with the Federal anthem and with the gender-righteous language. [[Abg. Kickl: Well, we ned!]] [[Call the FPÖ:Heinisch-Hosek!]] Exactly the FPÖ has always been excited and has said that we have far more important problems than the German anthem or the gender-friendly language. And what are you doing? – You keep putting this on your own! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] So, please, with such requests, you only distract media attention from the essential problems. We have an poverty of women in Austria. We have a massive wage shear between men and women in Austria. [[Abg. Kickl: We did this? – Yours!]] We have an anti-female working world in Austria. Single-aged women are still disadvantaged, and we read daily in the newspapers that women are beaten, abused and also killed. [[Abg. Riemer: Men are also being beaten!]] And we have a FPÖ in Austria, which is still making an application for whether or not the daughters should be inside the German anthem. [[Abg. Kickl: This is the next item on the agenda!]] In the Tanzanian Federal Anthem not only men occur, but also women and children. This federal anthem... – Do you even know where Tanzania is? [[Call to the FPÖ: Next item on the agenda!]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] – This German anthem was written in 1897, and after 118 years in Austria, FPÖ submits a request that the daughters should not appear in the German anthem. [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] So please, waste your working time for something else! – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e18967	Next speaker: Mrs Schenk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e18989	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The remarks of the colleague, Mr President, have prompted me to speak once again, because I do not want to keep in mind that in the town of Wels, the ÖVP, together with the FPÖ in the municipal council, has decided on a request to ban the use of I-I from the use of the internal language. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and FPÖ as well as the Abg. Loacker.]] Perhaps the spectators today can also take a picture of the ÖVP preaching water and drinking wine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e19022	Next speaker: Mr Pock. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e19043	Mr President. Estimated Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! As is probably well known, we have used NEOS from the beginning also in our party program. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] We support this measure for a variety of reasons, and we know that this was also an intensive discussion within NEOS at the beginning. Why was I-I so important to us in the program? We're talking about more than half the population – the women. We are talking about scientific findings that the use of female and male forms in German language actually leads to different images. I wish for all those daughters who are currently in our education system that through a neutral, male or possibly alternate formulation actually change working realities and social realities later on. [[Abg. Kickl: Just get rid of grammar!]] But very important, to the freedom of movement that we are discussing today: These are, very seriously, a refusal to work. These applications prevent Parliament from working properly. [[Congratulation with NEOS, SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Schimanek: What?- Oh, my God!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] The Equal Treatment Committee has to do more important than to treat the same nonsense every few months. There are – and we know this – between us and social democracy and the Greens also in equal treatment, especially when it comes to the working world, when it comes to the economy, very different ideas as to how we can justify and treat women of the same kind. But the debate on the subject would be the Committee's task. Let's discuss what models lead to men currently going to retirement, get 1 300 € per month and women 820 €! Let's discuss this! [[Abg. Schimanek: This is a scandal!]] That won't prevent the inside I if you remove it! [[Abg. Kitzmüller: Who was in the government all the time?]] In our view, of course, Mr Loacker has said this more than once, a more rapid adjustment of the age of women's retirement. But there are also many other reasons we could discuss. We could discuss why many more women than men are in part-time, about decades. We can discuss why women choose professions and sectors where average income is significantly lower than those in which men mainly work. [[Abg. Kickl: But unfortunately we need to discuss what agenda is! That's in a democracy! It's not everybody's choice!]] We can discuss many things, but inequality is beginning in the language. In the Committee, however, we have more important to discuss than the FPÖ lab permanently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e19164	Next speaker: Mrs Kucharovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e19186	Mr President, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Ah, we don't know what?]] Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Dear Colleagues! Dear sisters! I would like to make one comment on the comments made by my previous speaker, Mr Pock: With us, namely the SPÖ, there is definitely no faster increase in the age of women's retirement! I would simply like to express this once again. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In fact, I really think it is incredible that in 2015 one even talks about not using the female language, ah, the female form in German language. [[Abg. Kickl: There's something slipping now!]] Let's be honest: The demand for the abolition of I-I, which is not regulated by law, is actually only a pretext. You, namely the colleagues of the FPÖ, simply want to back to the conservative roots, simply not to make women in the language visible, not to see women with equal rights. That's what it's all about. [[Abg. Kitzmüller: such a nonsense! Unbelievable nonsense!]] I have to tell you, as a 31-year-old woman, it is really incredible to experience this flash that we have experienced here today: Tag Reproduction Medicine Law, Tag Inside I, Tag Hymne. – I can't believe what's happening here, honestly! [[Abg. Kitzmüller: Who are you dreaming of?]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] Dear colleagues from the FPÖ, our goal must be to strengthen women and really enable women to live equal and equal lives. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Was the “college” now with Binnen-I or without? Who'd she call?]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] And I definitely don't recognize that with you. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Who are you addressing? Do you speak with small i or with large I? Who the hell did you talk to now?]] Dear colleagues, we don't want to be shared. Mr Rosenkranz, this is what we are talking about. They don’t want to be shared with “colleagues”, but we women should feel commonplace when the male form is discussed?- Oh, my God! - No way! [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] No matter how many times you continue to protest and object, it is quite easy for us to do so. We'll always be loud for women. We will always be loud for the female form in the language. And we just don't get tired, that's what we guarantee you! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e19332	Next speaker: Mr Asdin El Habbassi. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e19353	Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen in the House! If one follows this debate closely, then one can only feel the strengths of the citizens who have to follow all of this, if they know what topics we are dealing with here in the House and how much time we are investing to discuss them. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Perhaps a brief quote from the request, namely from an interview with the Chairman of the Austrian Standardisation Institute, I would like to have appreciated that. She says: ‘Similar treatment is an objective that needs to be pursued at the level of the facsimile. Which woman has helped the I-I to get a better job or more pay?” – This is a quote from the request, a quote from the Chairman of the Austrian Standardisation Institute on this subject. I would just like to have done that this before. I share the opinion that it is not useful to have any legal provisions for the use of I-I. I think it is important that we manage to close the income scarves, that we manage to reduce other disadvantages of women in this society, and already would like to note that one cannot adopt a law to abolish a legal provision that does not exist at all. [[Abg. Kitzmüller: Exactly!]] There is no legal provision for the use of the I-I. That is why Mrs Aslan's accusation is already justified. I've been having the fun to calculate once in a while: We're about 200 working people here in space. The debate is scheduled for 30 minutes. If you calculate this, it is 100 hours of hard-paid work for which the citizens come up in front of the television screens. With their tax money, they pay for us to debate the I-I here instead of considering how we can actually improve something for women in this country. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the NEOS.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kucharovich.]] In this sense, I would like to end my statement and simply ask that we take care of the necessary things and that we hope in times like these we consider it a standard that men and women are treated the same way and that they are also used in our language.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e19415	Next speaker: Mr Knes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e19437	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! I simply do not understand this request. The more I think, the more unfair it becomes to me to think about it. [[Abg. Schimanek: Then leave it!]] [[Call the FPÖ:Go home!]] [[Abg. Kitzmüller: Leave it!]] I have already mentioned it in the Committee and I say it again here: The FPÖ uses this application exclusively for populist reasons. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Let me briefly outline this with a story that might also be interesting to the public: Dad Schlumpf doesn't know, picks up his advice of the slugs and says: Dear sluts, how do we make it that tomorrow we can somehow appear in the media? [[Abg. Strache: A conspiracy theorist!]] Then the smallest slug stands up in the fourth row and says: I'd have an idea. We make a request to abolish the I-I in Austria by law! [[Abg. Kitzmüller: Then he has the 10th. ==References== Series of the SPÖ said...!]] - Said, done. A day later, everything is done. It's also in the newspaper: ‘Hymne and Binnen-I: FPÖ lets Parliament vote on women’s issues.” – That’s once this act. [[Abg. Strache: And who is against it again?]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Press freedom!]] So, then the dad's sluggish comes and says, Dear little slug, you've done your job, please go back to your camp, go get wood for the campfire, or we'll freeze that night. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is a purely populist request from the FPÖ. I repeat: What kind of law should we abolish, please, if there is not even a law to do so?- Oh, my God! [[New calls to the FPÖ.]] Although Mr Zanger has fulfilled the homework of the Papa Schlumpf, he has not considered what it is about in this law, which is not at all there, and here he is happy to make a request to abolish a law which is not written in the Constitution at all. [[Call the FPÖ:Read! You didn't understand! Whoever can read is clearly in advantage!]] Ladies and gentlemen, many previous speakers have said the same thing: We should talk about gender policy and take women's issues very seriously in the future. We still have enough tasks to solve, even in terms of equal treatment in the farms, or in terms of violence against women and the families, instead of talking to us here in the House about the internal I. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Mrs. Ablinger has a lot to say about this too!]] [[Abg. Street: This is what you say to the 40,000 people in the football stadium!]] One is written to you in the main book, dear FPÖ: The voters will certainly not thank you in the future! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e19613	Mrs Rosenkranz has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e19634	Oh, Mr. Knes! Much of what you say is completely wrong. But first of all: We are not out of populism against the I-I, but we are really nervous, and we also share this rejection with a good part of the population. [[Lively applause at the FPÖ.]] This does not really serve women's rights, quite the contrary: If we do things this way, of course we are also provoking the danger of a backlash as far as women's rights are concerned. But apart from that, let me give you three reasons in the near future. As a male feminist, you, Mr deputies, have now done no good for your fellow Members, and I say to you: Although he is not even opposed, Mr deputies – how about it only if he was opposed! – you didn’t understand the text. Of course, FPÖ has not requested that the I-I be banned, although there is no law at all. [[Abg. Knes keeps the application referred to above by the FPÖ up to date.]] [[Abg. Schimanek: Read meaningfully!]] Can you read meaningfully? What will it be like, if that is still the case?, I say again! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Look what it says: "The Federal Government, and in particular the Federal Minister for Education and Women, are invited to take such steps (...), which aim to abolish the so-called I-I in the administration of the Federal Government, and to forward to the National Council a government template ensuring the abolition of all I-Is from all federal laws and constitutional laws." No one forbids anyone's internal I, but we want administrative practice and legislation to return to a reasonable spelling. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the Stronach team]] One more point to readability: By the way, have you noticed – but I am always yelling at the SPÖ, I must also talk to the members of the ÖVP – that advertising is not countered? Why? – There you want to send clear messages that reach people – the man or the woman – because it is about money, and of course there is no fight against it. Can we, please, keep the same rule that we really want to communicate what we say and write, even for our school books?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ as well as with representatives of the Stronach team.]] And by the way, Mrs Aslan: In the interview with the “Press”, her party supervisor says whether they are actually hanging on the inside I, she prefers to use both forms or to describe them. This is, for example, a very reasonable thing. I have now dealt with the issue of legibility and understanding. Second issue: Of course, language creates consciousness, that's clear. However, they cannot be changed at any time. If it transforms what is already in existence in the minds, then it can take the last step towards something becoming aware. There have been language products, literature that have changed across Europe – the “Valuer” for example. But you can't just put it on arbitrarily. I can now refer to the open letter, Mrs Minister, which you received and which is primarily signed by language scientists. First signatory is Mrs. Dr. Annelies Glander, so a woman who makes a very correct observation. There it says: “Language was and is always an area that is developing in basic democratic terms: What the majority of the speakers consider to be correct is considered to be a rule case. Wherever in the course of history efforts to intervene in this process were made, we had it” – this is now strong tobak – “to do with dictatorial regimes. The state-supporting principle of democracy therefore prohibits language-based forced measures (...).” You really can't add to that. It is! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Schwentner: And the spelling reform?]] But to the third: They do not get through because there must be a willingness to understand certain linguistic developments as well. That's not happening at all. Not only advertising, but also all quality newspapers, even those that are more left, such as the “spiegel” for example, do not do so, because no one would give the text, because it is about conveying messages. Only: Why this has to be in school, that's another question. And last of all: In contrast to the ideology which you repeatedly advocated, you do not think Europe-centered, you always think for the navel of the world. Don't you notice what small part of the world is dealing with this problem? – 1.3 billion Chinese, 1.4 billion Indians would fall on their minds if they could follow this debate. [[Intervocations with SPÖ and Greens.]] Just leave this displeasure! Put on the reasonable, namely the understanding of language, and otherwise try to make the position of the woman in Austria a really equal person!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e19725	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Equal Opportunities to take note of his report 392 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. [[20:40:14]] 6. Point Report by the Equal Treatment Committee on Amendment 730/A by Mr Carmen Gartelgruber, Members of Parliament on a Federal Act with which the Federal Law on the Hymn of the Republic of Austria, BGBl. I No. 127/2011, amended (393 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e19768	We're now on the 6th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Schimanek has spoken. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e19795	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. The retexting of the German anthem was a white cock! Nevertheless, our German anthem was retexted against the votes of the FPÖ in 2011. That was another step in this “plowing, bad luck and pans” government, and there was nothing else to be expected. At the time, I warned of the displeasure of the people and made a request for popular vote. You have, of course, rejected this because you feared him as the devil had the water of consecration. Why? – We know that very well today. What has happened in recent years? – The discussion about the changed German anthem does not tear off. The Austrians simply cannot find themselves with the new form. [[Accompaniment with the FPÖ and the Abg. Reciprocating.]] Many surveys speak a clear language, be it Ö3-voting, whether it be an OGM survey, technical colleges in various federal states have dealt with this issue, and a clear majority opposes this pseudo-female policy measure. Only this morning in the discussion on a private radio station did all callers express themselves for the old and correct version of our federal anthem. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I experience it all the time at various events: When the German anthem is played, it becomes restless in the population. There are some who then raise their voices very vehemently at certain passages of text, for example among the “sons”, others do not sing the Federal anthem at all, and it may not be. What do the women have from this changed Federal anthem? – I receive a lot of inscriptions from all over Austria that invite me to take action and to reclaim the original German anthem. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would of course like to respond to this request, because I see it as my commitment. Faith Do you really think the German anthem has helped only one woman?- Oh, my God! We have heard today: equal pay for equal work, violence against women, poverty at women, the difficulty, family and profession, I could bring you quite a different example – nothing is done here! But I understand: This is the only thing that the valued and politically responsible women in their political groups have enforced, and they will, of course, defend this measure for murder and fire. I see in the determined ants of the uninstructables that they will now also do so as subsequent speakers. But I guarantee you: the Austrians do not have you on your side!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e19853	Mrs Wurm is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e19874	Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! Language creates reality, but language should also express reality. What does that mean that reality should also be expressed? – That women should also be found accordingly. I have looked at various studies, such as from the University of Innsbruck. Mrs. Dr. Elisabeth Mairhofer from the Institute of Languages has dealt with this and has also provided us with various studies. What do all these studies say? If you are asked, ladies and gentlemen: If you call me three politicians!, then you normally get three men, Obama, because of Churchill, maybe also Hollande, but if politicians are questioned, then there are other answers, then perhaps there is also a Angela Merkel, then perhaps a Maria Theresia occurs, and, and, and. What do I want to say, what do I tell you? – Although the female forms are also used, the women are more likely to be considered. Call me a scientist! – You might think of Newton, and maybe you're still gonna be quick, but not Marie Curie. I could go on with this: Literate? – Maybe a handke comes in, but not Elfriede Jelinek, or Goethe, but not Marie von Ebner-Eschenbach, and, and, and, There are countless examples, and that is not said from the imagination, but there are empirical investigations that prove this. We are now talking about the amendment of the German anthem, which was decided by a majority here in the House on the basis of an own-initiative proposal, on the basis of an initiative by the Austrian Parliament, the Austrian Members, and I would ask you to accept the majority of them, ladies and gentlemen. We have to accept majority voting in a democracy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: That was a red-black-green request!]] And if we in Austria now sing the “great daughters” in our Federal anthem, I tell you, ladies and gentlemen: We have many big daughters in our country, we have many big daughters! [[Abg. Street: They all sing the traditional hymn at the stadium!]] If the Minister of Women now highlights a woman in an action every day before the curtain, which is often not mentioned, is not mentioned, then this is important because: What is not mentioned does not exist in many cases, so history is an important question and the designation is an important question. Only a small extract from important Austrian girls, from big daughters: I have already spoken of Maria Theresia; Ingeborg Bachmann, Senta Berger, Michaela Dorfmeister, Christiane Hörbiger, Elfriede Jelinek, Hedy Lamarr, Alma Mahler-Werfel, Lise Meitner, Annemarie Moser-Pröll, Anna Maria Mozart, Romy Schneider, Maria Schell, Margarete Schütte-Lihotzky, Christina Stürmer, Gerlinde Kaltenbrunner, Petra Kronberger – Mrs. Dr. Griss, yeswelt –, Christine Nöstlinger, Waris Dirie, Marie von Ebner-Eschenbach, Elisabeth von Österreich-Hung, Bertha von Suttner and of course also Mrs Burjan, also Mrs Schittenhelm, also woman... – Worm, of course. [[Abg. Anna Fenninger!]] [[Abg. Stache: Anna Fenninger don't forget!]] [[Abg. Dr. Griss!]] [[Abg. Bitch: Maria Fekter!]] [[Abg. Arbitrator: Worm!]] [[Cheerfulness of the speaker.]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] All possible big daughters fall into my mind, of course also Johanna Dohnal and also Barbara Prammer.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e20008	The next item is Mrs Steger's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e20030	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear Seers! High house! “Home you are great sons” – obviously a sentence that moves. Only last summer did Andreas Gabalier sing the hymn in the old version, in the original version, creating a wild debate about the 2011 amendment. But it was not just his fans, it was a large part of the Austrian population that gave him exactly the right thing. These emotions you can also see, you only need to go to a football stadium. There, tens of thousands of people sing closed and proudly sing the old German anthem. [[Accompaniment with the FPÖ and the Abg. Reciprocating.]] [[Abg. Street: All women sing with you!]] So a sentence that actually moves, but only after it has been changed, because as the 2011 OGM survey showed, not many people were interested in whether the daughters were actually in the hymn. For many people in this country these are feministic issues that are forced to sidetrack the true problems of women in this society. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with SPÖ and Greens.]] OGM-chef Bachmayer has expressed it as follows: “The euro states are cracking around – and now the political issue is number one to flick the daughters into the hymn.” – That can’t be your serious! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But I understand, of course, it is much easier – much easier – to change an anthem than to impose the same pay for the same work. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: It's sacred!]] Where are the childcare places? Where are the retirement billing periods? What about the recently decided cuts in the care sector, which also burden women again? One hammer after another goes down on the women, and what are you doing? – You changed the hymn in 2011. These are really not the real problems of women in this country, that is equal rights purely on paper and nothing else! [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] One, ladies and gentlemen from SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens – the NEOS were not present at the time – has really achieved this: Now people are really concerned about the change in the Federal anthem, namely the change of back, away from the “daughters ” in the hymn. This is the result of ignoring the will of the population. More than 70 percent of the population then voted against the change in the German anthem. [[Abg. Bitch: Forced order! People are full of forced orders!]] Not just that. Linguistic scientists also criticized the change as – I quote – “grammatically limited and aesthetically an abomination”. If you say now that's just surveys, there's a lot of polls, they're not always accurate, then I'm right. But that is why you should have let the people vote or at least question them at that time. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But I can calm you down, it's not too late. They can still have the population questioned or voted. This is all possible and has two advantages: Firstly, what the people really want to do would be implemented, and secondly, you would at last have it officially that you are running politics beyond the will of the population! By the way, this case is another perfect example of the importance of expanding direct democracy in Austria. However, you – SPÖ and ÖVP – have been rescheduling reforms in this area for years. Finally, you have to distance yourself from it, you have to say goodbye to the people with everything and every one of them. This begins with the euro and the ESM and ends with the German anthem. Why not vote? Why not question the population? Are you afraid of that? Are you scared? Away with the compulsion to the freedom of people to decide for themselves! Since the majority of the population are known to be women, you should not be afraid of this vote, because it will probably be in your favor if you feel that you have represented the interests of women with this anthem amendment. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But I am telling you today – and there is really no prophet – that this vote will be negative for you, because countless women – countless women – who have not felt discriminated against by the old hymn in any form, have reported to us and asked us whether we are making a request to restore the original anthem. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Schwentner: What is the actual hymn?]] Ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, ÖVP, Greens and, above all, NEOS, you cannot seriously call it a refusal to work if you make a request that reflects the will of the population! So if you call this a refusal to work, I'm getting a lot of information about your work in this House over the past few years. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Beyond all ideologies: One does not intervene in a historical work like a hymn. It's a lousy thing. A hymn is not there to reveal all empirical facts. Let's think about it. What would be next? – Land of fields, land of the cathedral. “Dome” would be a problem again, it could seem that any religious communities are disadvantaged, and then it would probably soon be called “land of mosques and cathedrals”. [[In the direction of ÖVP:]] Her vice chancellor has just said that Islam is now part of Austria, probably the Austrians will soon have to hear this in the hymn. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In short: One should rather emphasize the historical background of this hymn, leave it in the original version and finally deal with the real problems of women in this country.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e20185	The next item is Mrs Schittenhelm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e20207	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I congratulate colleague Steger, it was a great show, really a great show, impressive. [[Congratulation with the FPÖ as well as warmth and applause with the greens]] I would have liked so much enthusiasm and so much commitment to other women's issues. I have not noticed you here in plenary so far, but it will still be. That was a good start today. [[New appeal to FPÖ and Greens.]] On the request of the liberals, and this must be done once on the tongue, to all the ladies and gentlemen who may be watching today, which is not acceptable: ==References====External links== Last October, the request to delete two words from the text of the German anthem, namely, “great daughters. ” I wonder all the time: What's the problem? What's the problem? What does the People's Party mean? – We think it has to stay that way, but the Freedom Party says that the “great daughters” have to get out of the federal anthem. [[Abg. You have disfigured the anthem, and you have stashed it.]] The Freedom Party can simply do nothing with the women in Austria, with their services, whether in the social field or in the economic field, whether in the educational field. [[Abg. Stache: Go to the football stadium and hear what the women are singing!]] The 'big daughters', Mr. Strache, who, for example, were called by Mrs. Wolf, naturally stand for all women in Austria, no matter in which area, whether in the economy, in the family, or in the profession. That's just the way it is. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ, Greens and NEOS.]] [[Abg. Strache: That's why I don't need to create an anthem!]] They haven't arrived in today's time. This request is purely populism, and I have to give it to my previous speaker. It's a shame around time, it's really a pity around time. I am happy every day when I see our top sportsmen standing on the stage and finally not only having to sing “great sons” but can also take part in this praise. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ, Greens and NEOS.]] Ladies and gentlemen, a hymn, so it stands in the Brockhaus, is praise and praise to the entire population. And it is now a fact and fact that the whole population in Austria is made up of women and men, 52 percent women, and it is natural for women to be represented in the Bun-Deshymne. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ, Greens and NEOS.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] If the self-understanding of a country is to put a symbolic gesture – whether that is the German anthem, the flag, whatever – then this should apply to all groups. The people of this country, men and women, shape the self-understanding, their achievements that they have already done in history and which they will still accomplish. We should be proud that we have such big daughters, but also great sons. Let us not divide them and let us not be ridiculous, even in the eyes of the women in Austria! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e20313	Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Schwentner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e20334	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! As Mrs Schittenhelm's colleague, I am also quite surprised at this flaming plea on women's policy, Mrs Steger. All due respect! I'd be glad if we could They can continue to win over at all meetings of the Equal Treatment Committee. I would be pleased if the FPÖ were to be present in this presence in the near future on other points, again and again, when it comes to equal treatment and women's rights, so committed. I am looking forward to engaged debates in the Equality Committee. [[Congratulations on Greens, SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Thank you for your request! Then once again we can discuss what is really important to you, because you obviously overlook the issues on which it comes to women's political and equal treatment policy again and again. Mrs Schimanek, I have heard little about you lately in the Committee on Equal Opportunities. Except for these two requests that we are discussing today, there was little there. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schimanek.]] Another question concerns me like Mr Schittenhelm, namely: Why are you so upset? Why are you so out of the house when it comes to this one word or this one letter? [[Abg. Strache: Because the population is also damned!]] I have now come to believe that Mr Zanger is grateful – excuse me – for he has explained it to us earlier in his remarks. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Street@item incidence access is by owner only]] He said: What is the meaning of this letter in this word? What is the meaning of this “I” in this word? That's what surprises him, so he can't start anything. A letter in a word?- Oh, my God! What's that word supposed to do in an anthem? That's why I finally understand: A new word in a hymn, a new letter in a word – help, maybe we could take a look at it! [[Congratulations on Greens, SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Or we do it quite differently and not only do the I-I, but all I, and then we do not do any Lex Gabalier, as you make it clear, but we make a Lex Gabaler, because Mr. Gabalier, who has rekindled this debate, does not get along with folk music with the fact that he is not allowed to sing the same hymn he has learned in the elementary school. [[Abg. Strache: A beautiful hustle and bustle of language!]] [[Abg. Strache: The Gabalier with a big inner I!]] And if we start from what we've learned in folk school and don't do that anymore: We no longer say ‘Yugoslavia’, we are now making the road to rescue on the motorway, we are now doing many other things. But Mr Gabalier – or Gabaler – is obviously not able to go beyond what he has learned in elementary school. [[Conjugation with greens and SPÖ as well as with the Abg. Pock.]] [[Abg. Strache: The Paula Preradović turns around in the grave!]] The Paula Preradović does not turn around in the grave, because when the colleague Steger speaks about the “original anthem” in her dedicated speech, I wonder what original we are talking about. For example, there is an original from 1947, which has been rightfully changed. [[Abg. Street: agreed with her! With her consent!]] At that time it was the “great fathers ” and the“ free sons. ” Is that where you want to go? To the great fathers and free sons? [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] They say: With the approval of Mrs Preradović. [[Abg. Strache: Today she is dead and has given no consent! Not even the family!]] However, we do not have a copyright debate, but we have a debate on what equality and women make visible in our symbols. And that this obviously means a lot, your repeated excitement shows us that you can't calm down in this regard. [[Abg. Strache: You don't intervene in artistic texts! That's a disregard for art!]] I recommend you to: Look Look at this little word, just like this one a little letter! [[Abg. Strache: This is a disregard for art!]] Learn the hymn, and let's sing it together! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e20510	Next, Mrs Yılmaz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e20531	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, The controversial text passage has been written since 2011: “Home to great daughters and sons”. In the equal treatment committee, Mr Schimanek said that the insertion of the daughters was – I quote – a deliberate change of the original text, which does not contribute to the equality of women. [[Abg. Schimanek: Yes, that's right!]] Yeah, maybe it doesn't bring as much as many other measures we're taking. However, it is quite certain that a return to the status before 2011 will certainly not do anything for the equal rights of women. Paula Preradović did not mix her text in stone either. [[Abg. Kitzmüller: This is a bad comparison: “thinged in stone ”!]] On the job of some senior officials, she has rewritten the text several times until he was as he was decided in 1947. The text of our German anthem is from 1947. That was a time, ladies and gentlemen, where married women were not allowed to go abroad without permission from their husbands, and they were not allowed to take on work, and family head was the man's law. [[Abg. Straw: There were those who did great things!]] Ladies and gentlemen, we don't want it anymore. Times have changed! Women do not want to be included, women want to find space as well as men. That is why the majority change in the text passage of the German anthem in 2011 was absolutely correct. I would like to thank those Members who were present in 2011 – representatives of the SPÖ, the ÖVP and the Greens – very much, on behalf of my two big daughters.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e20596	Next item is the report by Mr Kickl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e20618	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! They ask us why we are going into this subject emotionally. [[Abg. Arbitrators: No, the question was what upset you so much! Not why you're emotional!]] – We are going in emotionally, therefore, because the instinctlessness and senselessness, with the left elite, believe in being able to go beyond the needs of the population – and this is a symbolic example – has adopted terrifying dimensions in this country! That's why this issue stirs us up! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I recommend to the ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, who have turned out here today, who may still think themselves great daughters – oh God, yes – they should perform their own song. Look You approach the songs of the workers' movement, get them all through, and when you're done with the songs of the workers' movement, maybe next time we'll talk about the federal anthem. Then we can keep talking. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: You don’t have the workers’ movement, I’ll tell you! You have nothing to do with the workers' movement!]] They are not getting done with this nonsense, always running after reality. Now you've just lifted the women in because you say otherwise that's not fair. And then, as the saying of the year has become, it wins you this treasure! I mean the Conchita sausage. What is it now? When will it be improved to avoid discrimination towards transgender? How do these daughters-sons feel represented in the German anthem? Think about it! There is a need for improvement, ladies and gentlemen, because we do not want to discriminate against anyone in this country! And that's exactly what it's all about. Karl Kraus once said the psychoanalysis, that is the mental illness for which she spends herself. I think if he had seen your drive in the face of the federal anthem and the I-I, he would have come to the same conclusion in view of this crossroads of 68-feminism and political correctness. I'm pretty sure this would have been the result! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You should also think about one thing because I just took the word “psychoanalysis” into my mouth: I find it very, very interesting that the women of the left-wings make themselves here and interpret the installation of a great phallus in the middle of a word as a sign of equality.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e20693	Next word: Mr Pock. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e20714	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Estimated State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, I have very little speaking time, so I take a short look. A similar understanding to that of Mr Schwentner: I have actually found out what this series of proposals by the Liberal Party has to mean. It is simply you now after decades, in which you have separated one minority after another, in which you have discriminated against one minority after another in your requests that have gone out of minorities. They are starting to want to discriminate against the majority! That's the point. [[Abg. Strache: But the Austrian population that wants the traditional anthem is a majority!]] If you talk about the hymn, it would be quite different if it were less excited if you were to talk about the current form of the hymn being inappropriate and that we might need another one. But that you want to take the daughters out now, that's probably a contradiction in itself. [[Abg. Street: The population never wanted that!]] If more than half of the population is female, then of course this part of the population deserves our full recognition. And in this sense, there would be only one solution: If we are now trying to recognize the majority, we must remove the sons and not the daughters. [[Abg. Street: The population refuses this nonsense!]] – Yes, yes, the simple populism just doesn’t draw anymore. [[Abg. Street: The population doesn't sing with you!]] Your few e-mails you got now, yes, Mr. Strache, please stay with your things. [[Abg. Strache: This is a law against your own people! She doesn't sing with me!]] [[Abg. Strache: Go to the football stadium once!]] At the football stadium, everyone can sing as he pleases. [[Abg. Stache: Go to the Hopp Stadium! - That's ridiculous!]] Thank you and a nice evening!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e20843	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. A final word by the rapporteur does not seem to be desirable. Vote on the request of the Committee on Equal Treatment to take note of its report393 of the supplements: I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. [[21:09:06]] 7. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (454 e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, which amends the Civil Service Service Law 1979, the Wage Law 1956, the Contracting Officers Act 1948, the Law on Legal and Public Prosecutors' Service, the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law to Trade and the Law on the Law on the Law on the Laws on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law to Trade and the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law in the Law on the Law on the Laws in the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law in the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e20887	We're on the 7th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Magistrate. Stefan. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e20914	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I am particularly pleased that a few representatives of the public service have endured here for so long to see if they are taken seriously by the representatives and, in particular, by the government parties. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What is the point of this item on the agenda? – It is about repairing an unfair legal situation in the remuneration law of officials, which was abolished in November 2014 by a decision of the European Court of Justice. The background dates back to 2005 when an official initiated proceedings because he was discriminated against because he was unfairly treated with his accounting periods. There was already a decision by the European Court of Justice in 2009 in which it found that the Austrian legislation is not in conformity with Union law. In 2010 there was a new legal regime that should have repaired this. At that time, we have already strongly criticized the resumption of this new regulation. And in fact, in November 2014, a new decision of the European Court of Justice, which states that our regime, once again repeatedly repaired, is illegal for the Union, on the grounds that: Existing injustice cannot be cured with renewed age discrimination. - So far, so clear. So there was the proposal that this should be healed. As an opposition party, we were invited to carry out an extraordinary Constitutional Committee. This Monday, that is, before yesterday, it should take place. We agreed, because we want to be constructive, we do not want to cross. What happened? – On the last Friday at 5.30 p.m., a 46-page request came – without any explanations, without any background as to whether the financial impact would have, of course, without any review procedure. A 46-page request to vote on Monday! – Of course, on Monday we could not agree to this on this Constitutional Committee. It was then further discussed. Then what happened? Yesterday at 21.30 a.m., a new amendment was tabled, 16 pages in turn, without any explanations, of course without consideration, and this is to be voted on here and now. And all this on the back of officials, of public servants! This is only from the course of the process, without I being able to go into the content now, unreasonable and unbearable. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] One has to imagine this as if a tenant is trying a process against the homeowner because he has paid too much rent, has been leading this process for years, ultimately wins – and the landlord, the homeowner, suddenly has the opportunity to change the law so that this overpaid rent does not have to be paid back. It's the same thing here: The landlord, this is the Republic of Austria, which is obviously guilty to officials here who are now changing the law in order not to have to pay. This is a process that is unbearable – and the whole thing from the point of view of this procedure that I have just described. A state that is not really worthy of this republic! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you look at this procedure – and I am convinced that it is simple and simple that none of those present here, including those who know themselves significantly better than I do, really understand what has been presented here in these last few days – then trust here is simply and simply no longer appropriate. Whoever acts in this way fears that it will be looked more closely that it will be controlled. He doesn't have our consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e20989	The next item is the speech by Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e21011	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I don't think I need to be in the past now, because my previous speaker has explained the history of why there is this presentation at all. But because, I think, we're not really just thin-skinned together: If you want to, let's take a look at the parliamentary documents, because I can well remember that you laid down such packages in the second reading without even being able to read it. [[The speaker shows their strength with thumbs and pointing fingers]] - Just so that we don't feel hurt with each other. This is not an excuse now, but I just want to say it, because the location always determines the point of view. The very first thing, with all the confession to this problem, is for me and for us – and we are going to make a motion for a resolution here today, we have also said it hundreds of times; the question is only whether you want to hear it or not – that no one is disadvantaged. I'm sorry, but the And if there is an unabated mention of life sums or deviations in life sums, I also say for the hundredth time – and everyone knows – that in the bees we always make the compensation, with one exception: at the end of careers. Now we know – and I only remember who has already said everything for God’s sake, that should not be more expensive for taxpayers, we must make it cost-effective; I only remember once more that we have already discussed it together – we will do so without a single colleague or a single colleague having a disadvantage. It is only those who know the right to serve and pay, that I invite them to keep in mind what that means, and I thank them explicitly for the service law section, because that is really a lot of work. And now I'm saying, We have the situation that we have over 100 service authorities, and we have the problem that we should look at bringing together at least legal certainty very quickly. This is of enormous importance in a rule of law, because the service authorities on the one hand and the co-operation on the other, of course, want legal certainty. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] Now I'm saying something about that. Mr Darmann, let us be quite honest now! [[Abg. Deimek: Deimek, not Darmann!]] If in the past I have repeatedly referred to social dialogue negotiations – Mr Stefan – listen quietly! – then you have always said in intermediate calls: We're the legislator! We are not interested in the trade union negotiations! – I can show you everything afterwards. But now, at once, since there is no negotiation of a service right or a remuneration right, it is only so that the ECJ has found our law to be unlawful for union law, now it is suddenly arguing differently. However, we are immediately before negotiations on the BDG, everyone knows that too. We have tried, as far as possible, to give each individual all the information. Correct: No one has a joy if he gets a written paper on Friday – no question at all. But if that's not a special situation, ladies and gentlemen, with the knowledge that no one's staff gets a little too little somewhere! But we also have to do it, we have to do it, we have to “handle it. ” And the colleagues who stand behind there have worked half-nights, you have to say that in all clear terms. And I believe that, in addition to the government, we have also looked at this issue explicitly with the motion for a resolution, in order to convey security to all our colleagues. That is why I also have the task of submitting a request once again, namely: [[Quoted print version removed]] I can justify this request as follows: The proposed amendments are essentially technical corrections in order to preserve the current incomes in the context of the transfer as faithfully as possible. For example, adjustments to the salary schedule of the teachers and, subsequently, the allowances for this group of persons are necessary. Furthermore, the new reference amount, which is used, inter alia, as a basis for calculating numerous additional charges, is more precisely defined. It is made clear that the previous salary level guaranteed by allowances is also 1st. ==References====External links== The amendments also ensure that official titles, functional levels and other classification-related claims, such as travel fees, continue to be valid to the present extent. The specific features of postal and telecommunications make further changes necessary, for example, as their salary adjustments are made regardless of those of the federal government. Finally, all amounts after valorization should be increased by 1. It will be rounded up throughout the euro on March in order to avoid losses in rounding operations as part of the transfer. Regardless of the reform needs of the salary system, the opt-out scheme shall be extended by one year for staff who receive a functional allowance with which all additional benefits are deemed to be paid. The 40-hour upper limit for the arrangement of additional services or for the assembly of overtime is maintained. In addition, it is not necessary to pay for overtime, but to compensate only 1 : 1 in leisure. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to remind you that we have over 200 000 colleagues in the Federal Government, with the countries, cities and the experts in the distributed area, and more than 400 000 colleagues. I believe that we owe this group of people once again that we create legal certainty, but on the other hand also the taxpayer and our service authorities. I would ask you to give your support to this project in the light of this difficult situation.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e21086	The amendment which has just been tabled by Mr Pendl, which was also presented by him in the broad outlines, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. In the meantime, he was also distributed in the hall. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e24154	Next, Mr Magistrate. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e24175	Mr Pendl said that no one has a pleasure when he receives a request on Friday. – That’s not the problem! You can make us a request day and night. What we have a problem with is if we do not have time to consider this request properly. And we have to discuss this in a row. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] No committee would have been planned, but one has gone to the opposition from the government and has said that one would have a smaller service law novel – nothing big. There has been a clear trend, there is a consensus with the union and one has to implement a small thing. It is clear that in the parliamentary procedure, when it is signaled, it is possible to adopt such a thing. Then we waited for this request, but he did not come. - Good. Then on Friday in the evening, I get the information from our staff that this smaller amendment request has been received from us, and this smaller amendment request turns out to be a 46-page request. 46 pages with an A-4 page – well, comment can't be said, but it was a reason, no more and no less. Anyone who knows how laws look otherwise when they come knows that there are comprehensive explanations and comments and that this A-4 side, which was hanging behind, was a very narrow contribution. So on Friday we get this request, on Monday – only 48 hours later – it is already being negotiated in the Committee. One has no chance of sharing this complex matter with experts or staff representatives. There is simply no chance to consider whether this solution is now in accordance with European law – there have already been two defeats before the European Court of Justice – how the financial impact of this request is and whether it is actually a fair offer to staff members. There's no chance to check this! In this way, Parliamentaryism cannot work: that, I say it carefully now, under, well, reflection of strongly shortened facts, one brings a committee appointment and then brings in a matter of such scope and such a meaning, possibly with financial implications which are not to be underestimated. I can't do that! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is not a parliamentarianism, as we imagine it, and I believe that I am speaking on behalf of the entire opposition. We don't like that! A request for a similar procedure if the application is not on the table no longer needs to be made at the opposition, for we will certainly reject it. There will only be more a welcome if it is clear what is on the programme. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There will be a strict interpretation of the Rules of Procedure by us in these circumstances. But to a certain extent, the government or the government parties do not fully believe your request, because they are today bringing in a motion for a resolution – it is not yet submitted – that relativizes everything. That is to say, it is to be taken into account that proposals for improvement should be “if an in-depth examination proves that the new regulation is accompanied by an impairment in the amount of living earnings”. That is, we decide today, but at the same time we are giving the government an order to make a novel if that does not happen what should occur. I mean, that's not a professional parliamentarianism, and you don't have to be surprised if you don't take our business and our metier seriously when we do this. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] One can find the proposal good or bad, but if we have no opportunity to consider, then nothing will remain but to reject it today. That is what we shall do, because as Members we cannot take on responsibility for something that we have not been able to examine in detail. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e24260	Next, Mrs. Dr. Karl will speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e24282	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, What is the cause of the reform of the right to pay today? – The cause actually goes back to 2009. At that time, there was the ECJ knowledge of Hütter, in which an age discrimination was already located in the law of remuneration. Then it came to the repair. However, this repair also ended up before the European Court of Justice, and as a result the ECJ's already mentioned findings of the 11th ECA had already been reached. ==References====External links== In turn, it identified age discrimination. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] It is clear that this is not necessarily conducive to legal certainty and that such a thing naturally leads to an insecurity of public servants. Now it is about creating legal certainty as quickly as possible, and if we want to create legal certainty, we must meet three premises, three requirements with this draft. This is, on the one hand, the conformity of European law: It is important that this draft be based on the German model because it has already existed before the European Court of Justice. Germany too had to implement a reform which, as has been said, existed before the European Court of Justice. The second premise to be fulfilled is cost-neutrality, and the third premise – which I think is particularly important – is that there should be no losses for the public servants on the job through this reform. That is to say, the sum of life-earners must be preserved, and for this the Minister of Finance has already known Schelling. This is also a very important point for him. However, in order to determine whether the sum of life really does not suffer losses, it takes longer. It has already been mentioned by Mr Pendl that this is, of course, a lot of work. There is a need to calculate the impact of this reform for each professional group. [[Abg. Brosz: The Pendl said that...!]] [[Abg. Deimek: This is trial and error!]] This is what we call for with the motion for a resolution which is still being tabled. We want to see that, regardless of the decision we are taking today, every professional group is actually charged with whether there is any loss in terms of living income in this respect. If it comes to it, then this must be balanced! We will control that, and we insist on it. That is why the motion for a resolution is still being tabled today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] However, what I would also like to stress is that today it is a reorganisation of a European illegal legal status and not a service reform as envisaged in the government programme. This service reform must be implemented as quickly as possible. [[Abg. Deimek: Clean, not fast! Clean!]] We can no longer talk about it, we can no longer wait for it, and we will also ensure that discussions and negotiations with the trade union are started very quickly so that we can ensure a modern, modern service law for the Austrian public service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e24369	Next word: Mr Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e24390	It's really hearty what we've heard today: So this is about finally holding back the uncertainty. – Now, explain to me how an uncertainty should be prevented, if you do not want to insure exactly those who are pretending to be insecure, who are also sitting up there today, not including in the solution, or if you create a solution that does nothing else – that is why you do not have to worry – than to hide time. [[towards gallery]] This solution, which is on the table today, is not a solution at all, but it is a matter of gaining time. It is a matter of putting something on the table, of which one knows that it will not work, that it will be lifted up again in order to win it according to time, while one hopes for a miracle, namely that one will establish the square of the circle here. I have to explain to you how to do it, if you have committed an injustice before, and if you do not allow it to be done by people, how you want to fix it under the premise that you are saying here, namely that no damage can be done, and yet the two to three billions that stand here in the room that could cause total costs do not happen. And since you know that this isn't going on, you're doing this Husch-Puff law here, you're unlikely to make many amendments so that no one knows that even the judges – and they're not the stupidest in this country! – say they don’t even understand what’s inside, and that’s why they’re hard to judge. And not only the judges are doing this, I have also been hard on myself – but that doesn't mean anything. [[Abg. Brosz: That doesn't surprise us!]] [[Abg. Rädler: Mr Colleague, that means nothing!]] The budget service that we have assigned to tell us bright things also says that he does not look through it. And you want to sell this to us today as legal certainty?- Oh, my God! It's uncertainty that you're spreading here! In fact, you only want to gain time because you know the regulation will be repealed, and then you will have at least four years to do something about it again. What that will be, I don't know yet, because, as I said, you won't succeed in the square of the circle – and the whole thing on the back of those who have to bathe it out. Especially in the public service – we know what the past looked like – it has never been looked at in particular that performance is also rewarded accordingly, and now you go here and do something that will ultimately happen on the back of the public servants. And that the ECJ will finally remove this, has already method. Remember Mr Spindelegger, who also did something at the time that he knew it would not keep, namely this special arrangement at the mortgage, with which he picked out and punished very certain creditors with a 100 percent loss. He already knew that it won't last. And what did he say during the interview? – He said that if this is lifted, we will have to think about something. – That's exactly how it works here! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] That's exactly how it works here: It's done something you know it won't keep to gain time, and the whole thing on the back of the one that concerns it. And if you come here and say it's about legal certainty, it's about preventing insecurity, then you've done exactly the opposite. You're gonna fall on your head, I can tell you that! At the latest, when this law is repealed, we will be back at the beginning, and then you will have to look forward to how you manage to eliminate injustice without causing additional costs for the taxpayer. That's what I'm excited about.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e24449	Mr Wittmann spoke next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e24471	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! The situation before which we stand is that the old system has been repealed by a preliminary ruling of the European Court of Justice. This does not mean that this repeal does not also cause costs, and if you wait too long to repair this law, you may also incur considerable costs in this case. This means, of course, that the State must also be interested in making a repair of this situation as quickly as possible in order not to incur unnecessary costs due to this decision. There are already 6 000 applications referring to the old system, and daily it will be more, i.e., extra costs. This does not mean that if one did not act, there would not have been a very massive burden on the government budget. On the other hand, it is perfectly understandable – and that was always the starting position – that you transfer possession-keeping to the new system. Now we are still making a motion for a resolution on security, because some professional groups, especially the judges, have obviously been in a state of uncertainty, which is understandable. In order to achieve security in this respect, one also makes a motion for a resolution which states that no one should be misplaced. The state's situation, namely that the European Court of Justice's decision does not mean that it does not result in anything, because then there are demands. I would like to see you when demands arise there because you did not act in good time! I think it is right to act immediately to make a system change, namely to the system that Germany has. We have responded to this system, which means that there is an EU-wide legal system to which we are changing. Now we are trying to ensure these acquis communautaires, which will be very, very comprehensive, with a resolution. But it's not that if you don't do anything, it doesn't cost anything. This can cause considerable costs. That is why it is right to decide now to make sure that no one is misplaced. I think that's the right procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e24516	The next item is the speech by Mr Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e24537	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! What we are experiencing today is a lesson as to parliamentarianism in Austria. We have already heard parts of the process, I think it is urgently necessary to restore it again. It has started with the famous parliamentary support rocket, that is a government template in which de facto is not in it at first. Then comes on Friday evening this 46-page amendment, and on Monday we are to discuss and decide on the subject of this proposal in the Constitutional Committee. The Secretary of State then sits in the Constitutional Committee and says: We have once started this carrier rocket so that we can then make the amendment. . I think that says a lot about how it is about parliamentarianism in Austria, because once a time government plans are only support missiles, so that one can bring in amendments later, because it is not possible to do otherwise in time, that is already very bad. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] The second point: In this short period of time that we had in order to assess this 46-page amendment proposal, we are expected to make a lasting assessment of whether there is cost-neutrality or whether the EU is in conformity. And then you also announce in the Committee that there will be an amendment which, of course, the Federal Chancellor's Office or anyone writes and which the SPÖ and ÖVP Members will bring in here today. – The worst thing is that Members are still involved! We received this amendment yesterday evening, and They obviously still believe that we have the time to make a lasting assessment of whether this is all right, whether the EU is in conformity. – There was no review, there are de facto no explanations, no relevant explanations, that is, we still do not know what is in there. This is the main problem: I can't judge if it's good or bad. Then Mrs Klubobfrau of the Stronach team, Mrs Nachbaur, asked Parliament's budget service, which is in it. He says: ‘However, within the minimum time frame between the submission of the amendment request and the planned decision-making in plenary session, no final validation of the cost-neutrality of the model or the model may be carried out on the basis of the present circumstances. the timing of the payment process shall be carried out.’; That means no one knows de facto. – I would like to know who of the Members here really knows what the consequences are. I am deeply convinced that no one knows! That means, fact is, everyone here doesn't know what consequences this has. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] We know that over the last two days more than 1,000 e-mails have been received from judicial officials – we know – and the fact is that this procedure is an expression of parliamentaryism. [[Congratulation with NEOS and FPÖ.]] The fact is that the representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP are co-de facto members of the parliamentary process, who are seeking the same. Ladies and gentlemen! I imagine a parliamentary democracy, I do not imagine a parliament like that. I do not imagine a living, strong Parliament in this way, and I believe that such processes are a consequence and an insult to this Parliament, which is really looking for the same. [[Call the FPÖ:And the population!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e24589	Now Mrs. State Secretary Mag. Reported on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party - Please, Mrs. State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e24610	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Values Advisors! Believers at the gallery! I believe that now is a good time to make some clarifications that I have already made in the Constitutional Committee. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] Mrs Colleague, you were not there, but your colleague, Scherak, was in the Constitutional Committee, where we have already debated this law in detail, which I will of course refer to in my speech. I myself have been a parliamentarian here in this House, and I am well aware that this timetable was very, very streamlined, but one thing I must tell you, I very much respect [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz]] Ladies and gentlemen: Special situations also make it necessary to take special action, which I will also present here. [[Abg. Deimek: Said the dictator!]] The situation which is currently facing the federal government, but not only for the federal government, but also for the countries or also for the sub-state enterprises, is also special: There is currently, Mr Stefan, in his statement of entry, what history we have with the pre-emptive date – no clear legal situation on the basis of which the service authorities could decide on requests from public servants to re-establish the pre-emptive date. Up to now, some 6 000 applications have been submitted to the service authorities for re-establishment of the pre-emptive date. And without a clear legal position, a uniform execution is not possible even in the Federation. As a competent State Secretary, it is necessary for me to ensure, on the one hand, a uniform performance with the Service Authorities that we do not have legal uncertainty in this area for the Service Authorities and also for the Public Servants. In addition – this has also been presented briefly in the debate, and this should not remain unmentioned – it is true that high costs, which are incurred by the inaction of the federal government – I formulate it again: by a failure of the federal government! – avert the tax payer(s) who could arise. Legal uncertainty and possible costs in the event of a failure to act: That is the situation before which we stand, ladies and gentlemen, very much. That is why it is also in all our responsibility that we offer on the one hand a Union law-compliant solution and, on the other hand, implement a Union law-compliant solution to the salary system. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! It is clear that both the law of the service and the particular legal situation that exists to us are very difficult and very difficult. I do not know whether the ladies and gentlemen have looked at the yearbook of the GÖD, in which the entire law of the service is contained, and have looked at § 12, which deals with the topic of the “pre-emptive date”. This section now covers seven and a half pages for the individual pre-emption determination of a staff member. The European Court of Justice adopted on 11 July. November 2014 that our regulation is age-discriminatory. This does not mean that he has recognized that she is unjust, but that she is age-discriminatory. In concrete terms, this was the accounting of pre-service periods prior to the 18th century. Year of life as well as teaching and schooling, and the judgment resulted in a legal situation which was now in repair. The judgment was then immediately examined and reviewed by the Service Section and the Constitutional Service – and I would like to take this opportunity to thank both sections for the work done. Our experts have concluded: We need to create a system that does not provide for any age discrimination. We had a special situation in the repair system, which was lifted and in which an option right was also included. That is to say, we had a different legal regime for older workers and new workers. And the way we went back then has led to age discrimination. Of course, we have – and I would like to stress this here too – following the in-depth analysis with the Public Service Trade Union, which is my negotiating partner, immediately on 15 November. In December discussions took place and negotiations were held. We have made more than a dozen rounds of negotiations about Christmas and New Year. As the allegation that we only made an amendment so late here, I would like to point out the following: I have worked so far to reach an agreement with the Public Service Trade Union, because it is important that we live by the social partners. But on the other hand, we got to a point where you have to act, and I have already explained the reason for my action with the time component and with the cost component here. In the production of models and also in the rounds of negotiations with the Public Service Trade Union, both the Vice-Cancellor's office and that of the Minister of Finance were a great support to us. I would like to thank the Minister for Finance and also the Vice-Chancellor. I would also like to make it clear: Discussions with the Public Service Union were quite constructive. In one or two speeches here, there have previously been remarks that we are again submitting an amendment. I have already explained it in the Constitutional Committee, and I will also present it today: Why do we have another amendment? – Because I have an open channel with the Public Service Trade Union. We have already received technical comments from the Public Service Union. What is it about? – On the one hand, a 3-cent round, which is of course also important in terms of living income or expected gain in earnings, i.e. 45 years of insurance. On the other hand, we have taken quality assurance measures for other salary levels. And it is already the valorization of the March salaries contained in this amendment. Another system that is very important for public servants is the opt-out regulation, which is also contained in this amendment. The opt-out rule – the colleagues in the public service know that – is the option of a public servant to opt out on an all-inclusive contract and get paid overtime. This too is already included in the amendment. As I said, I have already announced these changes to the Constitutional Committee. However, we currently have the situation that we have not been able to reach an agreement with the Public Service Trade Union. I have considered the resolution of the Public Service Union and its demands, where the wish is expressed that negotiations should be held within the first half of the year, on the 0,6 promille of the deviation in the expected increase, calculated on the merit of life, still to be held. And I do not deny this wish to the GOOD. I believe that we are working very constructively with each other, that we keep the call channel open and that we continue to discuss technical adjustments in the new model with the Public Service Trade Union. I don't turn to that. I have always stressed that cooperation is important to me. But now the model that was seen and discussed very differently in the public. This model underlines the guidelines that we have also decided: on the one hand, EU compliance with law, that is no longer age discrimination for staff, and on the other hand, the acquis communautaire for all public servants, and, on the other hand, budget-saving for taxpayers and therefore no structural additional costs. The new salary system is closely based on the Union law-compliant solution in Germany. It applies to all federal servants. That is to say, the current Federal Services are also being transferred to the new system. Otherwise, age discrimination could arise. As I have already said, the first repair in the right of options has led to the re-certification of the European Court of Justice, unlike Germany, where a system has also been brought before the European Court of Justice. We fully implement the system: away from an individual calculation of training times – I have already referred it to, the current section has about seven and a half pages – to a standardised, based on specific and actual professional experience. In the new salary system, there is no link to age, i.e. any age discrimination is excluded for the future. One thing that has gone down in the discussion and what I would like to stress here is that when we transfer staff to the new salary system, we do not have a minus on the salary register. With the next biennial jump, the staff will be transferred to the new system, the first advance will be lower than expected from the previous system, but we have taken this into account in so far as the following advance is favoured accordingly within this period, i.e. in the case of academics 1.5 years, half a year for maturants and maturants and a year for the rest. This is the result of a reduction in the pay gap within the biennial within the two years. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, I say it again: I am open to further discussions with the Public Service Trade Union, and I also invite you here – but the discussions in Parliament are publicly transmitted, Mr. colleague – or not? [[Abg. Brosz: Parliament!]] [[Abg. Brosz: What is publicly transmitted if we receive applications only a few hours before?]] I invite the Public Service Union to further discussions. And I say again that we will also make technical adjustments. Another fact that may have been lacking in the discussion: We have developed a mathematical model, a 0.6-promille deviation in the sum of life, which was expected to be 45 years. We will also resolve this technical adjustment, as we are now working together within the government to draw up this proposal for a solution. It is also important to say that, as is stated in the government programme, we will immediately start discussions on a comprehensive reform of the right of service and remuneration. A point of modern service law is already included in this request, namely that pre-service periods accumulated in the private sector are taken into account. That means: For example, if I worked in the private sector for five or six years, I could count this up to six years. Now we have the provision that we can count service times from the private sector of up to ten years. That is, the Federation will continue to be an attractive service provider. And we'll expand this even further. Due to the urgency – keyword: Legal uncertainty, keyword: uniform implementation, keyword: Cost risk – based on a claim-law and a possible cost-labour, I would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to agree to the re-regulation of the salary system in this form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e24702	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Gerstl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e24724	Mrs. State Secretary! Mr President. High house! Let me hold you: This change in the right of remuneration will not result in a disadvantage for any public servant currently in service. That is what we guarantee, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Call the FPÖ:Falsch!]] I admit that the proposal we are deciding on today is still creating uncertainty there and there, and we admit that in the short period of time we have gone as well as you and probably also the Trade Union of Public Service and also the officials of the Federal Chancellor's Office, and that in the calculation of each individual salary group, one or another can come out even differently than it was originally planned. That is why we support the Secretary of State for Recalculation, because it is our will that in any case – no matter how little stands before the Minus, whether 0.6 Promille or 0.1 Promille – a plus or a plus/minus zero comes out in the recalculation: every minus is unacceptable to us. This is guaranteed with our attitude! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I recognize the efforts of Mrs. State Secretary to reach agreement with the Public Service Trade Union until the last day. However, I also recognise that the immediate findings of the Administrative Court are forcing us to make a decision now. That is why I ask all the ladies and gentlemen here in this House to take part in this House, because otherwise it cannot be understood what legal certainty arises from the moment when the Administrative Court will have decided, and what financial uncertainty will arise for the Republic if the decision of the Administrative Court enters into force before we have adopted a new regulation here. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we need this decision today. We ensure that in the future all officials will not get worse. New officials will be able to learn improvements through the system, as the Secretary of State has already said. And it will also ensure that it – before what we decide today, on 1st. July could have an impact on the active staff – further improvements will be made. To this end, I would like to make the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e24800	Mr Magistrate. Gerstl's motion for a resolution, which has just been read, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e24871	Mr Lausch has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e24892	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Estimated public servants, you have to almost apologise for what is going on here, because this is actually unworthy of a professional group that risks daily, daily, their lives for this Republic. [[demostratetive applause with the FPÖ and with representatives of NEOS and Team Stronach]] Mr Gerstl! Has Do you really notice that this motion for a resolution tabled here completely contradicts your speech? Did you ever notice that? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They give the floor to legal certainty that there will be no loss of staff. You can't do that! And don't always say you think Mrs. State Secretary says she's negotiating. No matter how often she says, she does not, because that is what your motion for a resolution proves. It explicitly calls on it to negotiate with the Public Service Trade Union. This is a process that cannot be meant seriously! I have to tell you the truth: This is unworthy of a federal government, but also of the two government groups represented here, which is going on here! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They grant applications too late. They're not making a law review. They don't get any experts. And what's going on in this republic, that's what you see yourself: There are 1 200 emails in 48 hours. That's a clear language! Mrs. State Secretary, the court judgment was on 11 November. November, and don't always say you have to examine the law, tell me what the real reason for you to start negotiating with the social partners only nine days before Christmas: because at the end of November the Federal Staff Office elections were! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and NEOS.]] And the result of these elections would be different if you had already sold the staff as you do here. That would look different! If I were a Member of one of these two sectors, red or black, I would really be enjoying it! [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Scherak.]] You still have the result, which is actually not an election success anyway, too, because today you bring in the life throughput – it is not always the pay mark, Mr. Gerstl, we all know that – only a clear minus for all public servants. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gerstl.]] You can't even say what it costs, because you don't know. You don't know today! Mrs State Secretary, you still have no agreement with the social partners, and this is clear. You know no more than on Friday than on Monday in the Constitutional Committee, and today you just want to push it through, on the back of all public servants. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] – You can now shout what you want. [[Call the ÖVP: You're yelling too!]] You'll see: The public officials can't be sold for stupid, you'll get the invoice presented!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e24975	Next speaker: Mrs Lueger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e25006	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! It is very, very important to say right at the beginning: This is not a normal new service right, but a repair – exclusively a repair – with regard to pre-service times, pre-emptive date and pre-service time accounting. They were present in the Constitutional Committee and you also know that we in the Constitutional Committee have been dealing with the fact that there is a resolution of the GÖD, which contains three points. And these three points have already been promised by Mrs Steßl's Secretary of State in the Committee, namely that this should be taken into account by means of an application - and this is the current motion for a resolution and in the second case of today's amendment - so that these three requirements of the GÖD are already fulfilled. That is why, I think, these are not points where we can say that we are not trying to reach additional agreements to achieve a European-law-compliant solution. I do not find it objectionable to re-establish a safety loop with this motion for a resolution now, in the event that the calculations have not voted something, because simply to improve to give the staff the certainty that they have no merit. [[Abg. Kunasek: That's incredible!]] [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kunasek: Shame, Mrs. Colleague!]] [[Abg. New builder: Shame!]] [[Prolonged calls.]] No, I'm not ashamed of it. [[Abg. Strache: It's even worse if you're not ashamed, and even more to shame!]] I believe that this is a good solution in the sense of the staff and that we need this solution in the sense of the state. And on the part of the coalition parties, the assurance was also given that this solution is in accordance with European law, that it will not be carried out on the back of the staff, as you say, but with the staff and not at the expense of the staff, and that it will ensure that they will not have any disadvantage. Therefore, I am convinced that it is important to adopt this law quickly and quickly today. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neubauer]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e25144	A second time has been said, Mr Ing, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e25172	If it is really the same as we have heard x-fold now, also by the Secretary of State, namely that now there is a clear legal situation – it is all perfect, one has created a balance, there will be no one to lose anything, everything is great, there is legal certainty now, and the complicated laws that you do not seem to understand are still being improved – I already have to ask: Why send Then you're not under review of this law? We would have five weeks until the next plenary session, and there it could look at all those who are concerned. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Don't listen!]] Imagine something like this once in a company – you especially insist on the involvement of the employees! You have a business, and the employees of this company need a new legal situation, a new salary or whatever, and you don't involve it, but you throw it in front of the latz and say: Fresh or dead! That's exactly what's happening here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] And if all this is so wonderful, why does the union not agree? The SPÖ is usually a great friend of the union, but in this case it is not, because it does not fit you! – So if it were really so good for the employees, then the union would agree. That is why: back again to the Committee – there is a referral request that we will agree with – five weeks review! Let's take a closer look at this! Let's see if this really is such a blessing for all, as you claim – and then we will gladly agree. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] Then there are no problems with the union, then there are no problems with the employees, then we do not need to talk about strike. But it's not. And because you know it's not that way, you're going to run through this today and tell us that that's going to be right, that we're going to let that happen now, because otherwise, as you said, additional costs will be incurred. How's that going? If the preemptive date is not clear and someone cannot move forward, then the claims remain true. That's the way it is now. When the law is repealed, the claims remain. In other words, it does not matter if we decide in five weeks or in three months here in Parliament, it is crucial that the regulation is good for it to take place under the involvement of the trade union and with the involvement of its employees, for then it is viable – otherwise it is condemned to failure.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e25221	The next item is Mr Brosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e25242	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! In your speech, a word has not occurred, and the word is “parliament. ” [[Call at the SPÖ: Sure it happened!]] It is certainly a claim to agree with the trade union, but it is also the claim to pass laws in this House, which allowed for a detailed examination, a parliamentary procedure which gives us security – but not laws that did not allow for any procedure and which, I am now coming to speak, were only made possible under the interpretation of false facts. [[Congratulation with greens, FPÖ and NEOS.]] Would you have told us as opposition parties in all openness: Here comes a 46-page request with one side explanatory statement, there is an amendment, and we want to go through it within three days!, then we would have said: That is not how it is done, and you would have had the possibility of the Rules of Procedure. You could have made a deadline, an assignment that you could have made a special meeting – we couldn't have prevented all of this – if you thought it had to go so fast. However, the method chosen is absolutely unacceptable. And I hope, Mr Lopatka and Mr Schieder, that you will take this away, because this forces us to deal with it differently in the future. We have built a trust relationship in many discussions in the Presidential, where we can rely on what is promised, in all political differences. And that was broken by you from both sides. [[Congratulations with Greens, FPÖ, Team Stronach and NEOS.]] It was wrong facts, it was not played openly. And if the word 'parliament' no longer exists here in the debate, I can only say: Okay, the reaction will be clear. We can no longer take part in this process, and you will have to look at things in the future, as you are going through with deadlines, with special sessions, where things have to go quickly. I am sorry, and I think that is also a break from what we have had in recent months. We have had intensive negotiations on many issues. I do not think that was necessary in this form, with all the difficulty that comes. And I can only say that our reaction will be that there will no longer be this advance of confidence when you say there will be a small novel that you can look at and examine, and that it will keep us aware that this does not last. And I don't know if that paid off. The question of whether it was worth it must be answered by yourself.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e25290	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall proceed to the vote. First of all, the two requests for referral must be put to the vote. There is both a referral request from Mr Lausch and a referral request from the honourable Member. Steinhauser before. I shall immediately vote on the draft law in 457 of the Supplements to the Constitutional Committee. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall therefore vote on the draft law in 457 of the Supplements. Mrs Wittmann, Mr Mag. Hiezu. Mr Gerstl, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment or amendment. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary or amending proposal and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been agreed. Deputies Dr. Wittmann, Mag. Gerstl, ladies and gentlemen, have a supplementary or amendment amendment relating to Art. 2 and 3. Whoever wants to give his consent, may give a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. – In turn, this is accepted by a majority. We shall come to the third reading. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. I have already explained what notes to use – namely those called “Yes” in grey or “No” in pink. I would like to point out once again that only those official votes can be used for the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called on and asked to put the vote in place. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their third-reading approval to this draft, “Yes” voted in favour, those who do not wish to vote in favour of putting “No” vote in the urn. I now ask the author, Mrs Lueger, to begin the call for name; Mr Gahr will replace them later.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e25398	The vote will end. I would ask the officials of the House to carry out the polling of votes under the supervision of the authors. I am interrupting the session for a few minutes to this end. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e25436	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. 149 votes were cast, of which 90 were yes and 59 were “No ” votes. This draft law is therefore adopted at the third reading. According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Amon, Antoni, Aubauer, Auer, Bacher Walter, Bayr, Becher Ruth, Berlakovich, Buchmayr; Cap; Darabos, Diesner Wais, perforation; Ecker, Ehmann, El Habbassi, Eßl, Fichtinger Klaus Uwe, Fekter, Fichtinger Angela; Gahr, Gerstl, Gessl-Ranftl, Greiner Karin, Groiß, Grossmann, Gusenbauer-Jäger; Hakel Elisabeth, Hammer Michael, Hanger Andreas, Haubner, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Himmelbauer, Hofinger Manfred, Holzinger, Huainigg; Jank, Jarolim; Karl, Katzian, Knes, Königsberger-Ludwig, Kopf, Krainer Kai Jan, Krist, Kucharovich, Kuntzl, Kuzdas; Lettenbichler, Lopatka, Lueger Angela; Matznetter, Mayer, Muttonen; Obernosterer, kilnauer, ottenschlager; Pendl, Plessl, Preiner, Prince; Rädler, Rasinger, Rauch Johannes; Schieder, Schittenhelm, Schmuckenschlager, Schönegger, Schopf, Schultes, Sieber Norbert, Singer Johann, Spindelberger, Steinacker, Strasser; Tumandl, daughters, door; sub-railers; Vogl; Weninger, Wimmer, tiny, Wittmann, Wevinger, Worm Gisela; Yılmaz; Zakostelsky. Members voted with ‘No’: Alm, Angerer, Aslan, Brosz; Darmann, Deimek, Dietrich; Ertlschweiger; Franz, Fuchs; Hable, Hackl Heinz-Peter, Haider, Hofer, Hübner; Cashier, Kickl, Kitzmüller, Köchl, Korun, Kunasek; Lausch, Lintl, Loacker, Lugar Robert; Maurer, Meinl-Reisinger, Mölzer, Moser, Mückstein, Mühlberghuber; Neubauer Werner; Pirklhuber, Pock, Podgorschek; Riemer, Rosenkranz Barbara, Rosenkranz Walter, Rossmann; Schellenbacher, Schenk, Scherak, Schimanek, Schmid Gerhard, Schmid Julian, Schrangl, Schwentner, Stefan, Steger, Steinbichler, Steinhauser, Strache, Strolz; Vavrik; Refusal torpher, Willi, Winter, Worm Peter; Singer.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e25622	We shall come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Wittmann, Mr Mag. Gerstl, colleagues on reform of the right of employment and remuneration. Ladies and gentlemen! We are in a voting process. I ask you to take your seats. If you are in favour of this motion for a resolution by Mrs Wittmann, Mr Gerstl, please give a sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. (E 64.) [[22:20:06]] 8. Point Report by the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives on petitions No. 14, 21 and 24 as well as the citizens' initiatives No. 22, 46 and 52 (375 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e25664	We're on the 8th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. It is the first Mrs Mühlberghuber to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e25693	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The collection report gives a very good overview of the petitions and citizens' initiatives brought in and treated. The Committee has dealt with many issues at the last meeting and has shown us first and foremost the commitment of the citizens who have raised their concerns with us. I refer to the Citizens' Initiative No. 52 on the restoration of the original German anthem, which was adopted by all parties except the FPÖ in the last committee on 25 November. ==References====External links== Ladies and gentlemen! This citizens' initiative has not been launched by us, but by citizens. This is aimed at restoring the original version of the Austrian Federal Anthem. The explanatory statement states: “The retexting represented an intervention into a poetic work... It is also a piece of Austrian cultural heritage that has been changed without listening to the voice of the people.” [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The real reason for the rise of the population, for the demand for a restoration of the old German anthem version is that it is increasingly being passed by the people, how it is clearly directed against a policy of gender insanity, where a minority is trying to drive the majority ahead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e25737	The next item is the report by Mr Hechtl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e25758	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! The collective report of the Committee on Citizens' Initiatives and Petitions truly expresses various issues that move people. Topics such as pensions, transport and – this has already been tailor-made – the German anthem, as well as health care or the supply of medicines, were the major topics in this committee, which actually includes the collective report. I would like to say that direct democracy, which is reflected here, is very strongly reflected in this Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives. It is a very strong expression, as the introduction of petitions and citizens' initiatives, but also by electronic means, is very, very strongly encouraged and also possible. If these petitions and citizens' initiatives have been dealt with in committee, they have been dealt with after mature, detailed discussions and have been consulted by the relevant bodies. On the basis of these opinions, petitions and citizens' initiatives were then allocated to the respective specialist committee. I would just like to address a petition and a citizens' initiative, both of which concern the supply of medicinal products. First of all, this concerns the petition 24, which contains the maintenance of the house apotheke in Kirchdorf in Tyrol. I can tell you that, through good cooperation between the social partners, the Chamber of Physicians and the Austrian Pharmacovigilance Chamber, after quick discussions, there is the prospect of ensuring rapid and complete supply of medicinal products in this area of the region in the future. The 46 citizens' initiative, which concerns the preservation of the house apotheke in Wildschönau, also shows that the German Federal Ministry of Health, the Chamber of Physicians and the Pharmacy has also succeeded in finding a solution. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schimanek]] The bra revised the decision at that time. [[Abg. Schimanek:... yes not at all!]] I have a statement – the notice has been revised and at the same time the concession for the establishment of a new pharmacy has been granted. [[Abg. Schimanek:... is not true!]] If you claim that, you have to prove it. I can show you this in writing. This procedure confirms, on the one hand, that we take citizens' initiatives and petitions very seriously and take them very seriously. At the same time, on the other hand, it is also confirmed how important it is to have good communication between the ministry and social partners – for the benefit of the population!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e25814	The next item is the speech by Mr Gahr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e25835	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! The present report presents a variety of petitions and citizens' initiatives. We strive in the Committee to give every petition and citizens' initiative the best possible prospects and solutions. I believe that overall it is the case that we are discussing here in the Committee that we are making allocations to committees and meetings and are therefore treated politically with petitions and citizens' initiatives. In the present case, we are dealing with two citizens' initiatives in Tyrol, which are representative of rural areas, I believe, reflecting the need to ensure medical and medical care in rural areas in the future. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schimanek]] – Mrs Schimazek! I think the citizens know what they want to do with this citizens' initiative. [[Call the FPÖ: Schimanek!]] We treat these in such a way that we have assigned these two to the Health Committee for further processing. This is about the fact that after the revision of the Pharmacy Act in 2006 the house pharmacies are increasingly under way there and there, that public pharmacies have increased by 20 percent in recent years. [[Abg. Schimanek: Mr. Gahr, you know...!]] We have 1 335 public pharmacies in Austria. There has been a 12 percent decrease in medical home pharmacies to 844. For the future it is likely that it needs a mix between the pharmacies and the house pharmacies. Especially in the rural regions, it is important that we ensure medical and medical care with functioning house pharmacies, consisting of working practices. [[Abg. Schimanek: The Pharmacy Chamber and the Medical Chamber...!]] [[Abg. Schimanek:... Damn it again!]] Many country doctors just have the chance to be economically run in combination with a house apotheque. The fact is, any closed house apothecary is of course also a loss of an indispensable infrastructure in rural areas. It is therefore important, I believe, that in the near future, as set out in the government programme, we will link up a package of measures to ensure citizens' health care in rural areas. We have taken the path here with the assignment to the Health Committee. I hope and wish that there will be clarity in the next few weeks and that there will be an agreement between the Pharmacy Chamber and the Medical Chamber. At the heart of the problem is the provision of services to the population, and that is why we need a revision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e25915	Next word: Mr. Dr. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e25936	Ladies and gentlemen! This time, this collection report has become, as it were, a small work. In fact, we have allocated a lot of petitions during the last sessions and periods, actually last year. In fact, there is only a small extract of petitions and citizens' initiatives, which we were able to complete by generally taking note of them. We also have one or two allocations. I believe that the Committee's work is essentially more constructive than, I say at the outset, somewhat difficult start-up conditions, which of course have produced an important result: Minority law in the area of Hypo-Research Committee has been reached. I would like to thank the citizens, thanks to all those who have participated here through this simple tool of online support! [[Abg. Kogler: Bravo!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, that was great! It was great how the population has used a very simple, modern tool to participate in a direct communication possibility. This has caused such a person to have a back. It has caused the negotiations that had been held to give an additional impetus, and we have found a decision and decided on them. That's very positive. In this respect, even if not everything is so prominent as in this case, I would like to express my wish that we should work together for a consistent continuation of constructive work in this committee in the sense of the citizens that we are progressing with all our strength, because we have more together here than possible in the content atmosphere and in the content component of such topics. We are concerned primarily with the fact that citizens' concerns actually come where they can be seriously discussed: in the committees or also at meetings in our committee, in the Committee on Petitions. I would also like to highlight this instrument because it is a new one. We agreed that we should consult with the promoters and promoters of a citizens' initiative in the next committee on 27 November. It will be carried out in January. This too is a unique one. This too is new, and I would like to thank President Pock once again for his constructive and innovative approach. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Kogler in the direction of the Abg. Pock.]] I would also like to thank the political groups because they are willing to try out new instruments here. That's, I think, right. We should expand that together. Today we have also talked about TTIP, and we have already agreed more or less to carry out a hearing. There is, however, a large advertising drop, ladies and gentlemen, that if we make them in the Hearings Petitions Committee, they will always take place without the exclusion of the public. To be honest, that doesn't mean a citizen or a citizen. I have repeatedly talked with colleagues, with citizens, with people who have come with concern and have also brought in petitions, and at first they are thrilled that there is a hearing, hearing, and then they are surprised that no one can listen to that anyone can participate, but that this happens under the exclusion of the public. Yeah, there's a big piece in front of us if we want to change that. There are also some other concerns, but I think we should continue to work in this direction. Finally, an appeal, particularly to the government groups: I believe and am convinced that if we carry out the TTIP hearing in spring, as a result, we will also have to proceed one step further. I would like to make clear here the target orientation from our side: We need a parliamentary survey. The technical debates we have held during the course of the day have shown the complexity of the TTIP agreement, and also because of what Commissioner Malmström said yesterday in the brief debate I was able to participate in, I must note that it is really imperative to carry out a real parliamentary hearing with experts from EU level, from Austria and from civil society. This could and should also be our goal in our work out of the Committee on Petitions. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e25985	The next item is the speech by Mrs Schenk. Time left of the club: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e26006	Short and brittle. Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The previous speakers have already addressed the wide range of topics of the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives. In view of the short speaking time, I would like to briefly address my petition, the petition 22 entitled “More security through a liberal arms law.” This petition has already received broad approval. With today's status, 5 578 people have supported this petition online. This petition is more up-to-date and important than ever. I should also like to remind you of today's brief debate following the urgent question. We have also discussed this, and this issue will continue to concern us for a long time. There is still a great need for action and discussion, especially if I look at the opinion of the BMI on this petition, which took place on 25 June. It was received on September and is not satisfactory. This opinion also did not address the real demands and problems presented in this petition. My previous speaker mentioned it: We agreed in the Committee that on 27 November, the Januaryen, next week, a hearing will take place where we will deal with two petitions and four citizens' initiatives and discuss them with experts. We have enough time for that. I would also like to thank the chairman of the committee and all the political groups for being able to reach agreement here and we can carry out this consultation. I look forward to an exciting and constructive discussion on this and, of course, on many other important topics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e26042	Next word: Mr Pock. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e26064	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values Advisors! I would like to comment on three points. Mr Pirklhuber from the Greens and also colleague Schenk from the Stronach team have already mentioned it: We have agreed with all the political groups that we are starting a pilot project in the Committee, namely that we will in fact allow each group to select a topic of a citizens' initiative or petition as a priority topic and to invite a person to the Committee. I think this pilot project is important – important to gain first experience, as we can institutionalize it. Secondly, I think it is also – and this must be said quite clearly – an important signal that comes from social democracy and the ÖVP. I thank you for that. More importantly, a second step has already been announced, but we have not yet set the exact date. We are expected to have a special committee in June dealing with a TTIP/CETA expert hearing. Here, too, each political group is given the opportunity to invite an expert or an expert. This means that within a year we have actually made progress on the part of all the political groups. The question, however, is: Which way is it going? I understood: in the first 12 months. Unfortunately, it is not at the speed we have proposed NEOS, but it is going in the right direction. The question is: What's the perspective? On this occasion and in order to find out where we are outside Parliament, as we are known, as the instruments of the Parliamentary Citizens' Initiative, which are the petition, I started a tour of all the capitals of the district and the cities of the Statute in Austria at the beginning of January, which is simply ‘co-determination in Parliament’. Every evening, if I am not here in the House, we will be offering an evening event to present the instruments of the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiative. It's a very exciting reaction. In principle, if a person, a citizen, does not already have a very massive concern, she does not deal with the subject of how to articulate himself politically, directly, without the need for a Member or a representative or a party. In one week in Carinthia, I actually met ten parliamentary citizens' initiatives in six evenings, which have now been formed on the basis of my evening appointment – ten parliamentary citizens' initiatives on very different topics, such as issues on which the liberals are happy or social democracy or the Greens, or perhaps all of us or perhaps everyone in common. This means that there is a very high need, and there is still no knowledge of the instruments. Therefore, for today I ask the question – and I ask you to take it: What can we, as Parliament, use extra-partial measures to clarify instruments to accompany people? I can't do this alone as an obmann, nor does the staff at me in the parliament club make it possible to find a better answer. I still have 93 dates ahead of me, and I'm going to report on it regularly. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e26112	The next item is the report by Mr Wenninger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e26133	Mr President. High house! Today, we have another premiere in plenary on the agenda item of the Joint Report of the Committee on Citizens' Initiatives. There is for the first time no debate on whether the procedure in the committee and the treatment were correct. For years, we have argued that in the one case, an assignment to a specialist committee is the only correct answer. We said to the next committee: finish! In the third place, there were still so many comments, it was always too little. I recall the positive working climate within the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, which has already begun in the previous period, not least because of the diverse initiatives of President Barbara Prammer, who has given massive importance to online support and also to the application on the homepage of the National Council, the Austrian Parliament. This positive working atmosphere also shows the increasing self-confidence of the members of this committee. I believe that hearings and hearings will also make the content of the discussion more exciting than ever to have to walk through a thick mountain of petitions. Nevertheless, a contradiction or perhaps no contradiction to Mr Pirklhuber: Of course, it is important that we make this consultation, which we have agreed, on the subject of TTIP. But just as we discussed with the Federal Chancellor in the early days, it is also important to be self-confident as an Austrian National Council to tell citizens that we have a clear political position. Last year, we adopted a proposal with a clear majority voting against investment protection clauses, greater transparency in the negotiations and the safeguarding of European standards. It is important to me not only to offer the citizens the dialogue, but also to say self-confidently as a parliamentarian: There is a clear political opinion of the Austrian Parliament, and you can rely on it!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e26167	Next word: Mr Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e26188	Mr President. High house! The Southern Burgenland and in particular the Güssing and Jennersdorf districts are among the very weak regions, characterized by a high rate of emigration and at the same time by high unemployment. In recent years, there has been a loss of 2.5 to 3 per cent of the population, with unemployment rising by 9 per cent. A key reason for this is poor transport infrastructure. The economy, entrepreneurs, would appreciate it if there were a better connection – road and rail – because then some 500 to 700 jobs could be created. At present about 1,500 people are unemployed in these two districts, 500 to 700 new jobs are already a considerable number. It is therefore first of all important that the railway be electrified from St. Gotthard, Hungary to Graz. This is currently only contained in the 2025+ target network strategy. That's too late for the Southburgerland. This must be included in the ÖBB framework plan so that the route is electrified. Secondly, it is also important that the S 7 motorway be built, across the Styria to Hungary. The EIA procedures are now to be completed. Any- Once a decision has to be made and then the road will have to be built to create jobs in the south of Burgenland and also to help tourism. This benefits the Burgenland, also the Styria. That's why Klubobmann Lopatka is interested in the ÖVP that there's something going on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e26224	Next word: Mr Preiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e26246	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen. I refer to this petition number 21 on the extension of the S 7 and extension of the railway line Graz, Jennersdorf to St. Gotthard. The two projects are important for infrastructure in the south of Burgenland, which is why they are also an integral part of the overall transport strategy of the country of Burgenland and the Federal Republic of Germany. At present, as far as the S7 is concerned, an EIA procedure is under way, an environmental impact assessment. I hope that it will be positive that there will be no further objections, so that the S 7 can be started in Bälde. As regards the extension of the railway line around Jennersdorf, it is clear that this is primarily an important investment for freight and passenger transport, especially as regards the electrification of the railway link. I can mention that both, the country of Burgenland, but also the federal government, as the Ministry of Infrastructure, invest €30 million in the expansion and attraction of passenger transport in the railway sector for 2015. However, I can also mention that the country of Burgenland alone makes 16 million € available for all public transport in 2015. This is more than three times the year 2000. I am partly surprised that FPÖ did not agree in the Committee to take note of the petition number 21 for rail and road expansion opportunities in the south of Burgenland. I hope that's not a rejection. I can mention that I also expect more power and support from the relevant EIA Economic Council in the state government of Burgenland in the two projects. What is the final consequence of the extension of the railway line, the realization of the S 7 project? – Strengthening the economic area, safeguarding jobs, creating value in the region. The truck traffic comes from the road to the rail. This also means more quality of life, more environment, a reduction in CO2 emissions, which is also positive for climate protection in Austria, the Burgenland, especially in the South of Burgenland. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e26289	Next word: Mr Mag. Smoking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e26310	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! To sum up this again: I believe that what Mr Pock has said is very crucial, namely that this committee is a spirit seismograph for what is going on in the Austrian population and we can also know very clearly and very quickly in this committee how laws have an effect or how political issues are also discussed in this country. I would like to make a brief point, because Mr Gahr has already made it, of petitions 24 and 46. It's about the house pharmacies. We are talking about security of supply in rural areas, and that is why we need a pharmacy law as soon as possible. There is already a request in this House, from the previous legislative period. That was a five-party request. I believe that this should be done so that we can also have doctors in rural areas in the future and ensure security of supply in rural areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e26340	Next word: Mr Hell. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e26361	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Since the beginning of the XXV. 65 citizens' initiatives and 40 petitions were introduced in Parliament during the legislative period. This shows that the population has a very high need to address their concerns directly to the legislators. It has already been pointed out by the chairman of the Committee today that for a long time, reference has been made to the possibility for citizens to bring their concerns directly to Parliament. The concerns are very diverse, considering that petition number 1 raises the demand for a mobbing law, petition 40 calls for the right of vote for pensioners in self-administration institutions in the field of health insurance, the citizens' initiative number 1 is to re-examine the value of social work, and the number 65 calls for the maintenance of an existing road guide and the prevention of a new route guide. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Many Members are directly confronted with citizens' concerns outside the constituencies. One of these topics is also found in the collective report to be discussed today. It's about the topic of medical house pharmacies. Some of my previous speakers have already discussed this issue, so we can see how important it is to us. I would like to point out that there was a motion for a resolution in the House dealing with this issue and asking the Federal Minister to discuss the interests of the professional groups concerned and the main association of the Austrian social security institutions, and a proposal should be presented by the end of the year. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank the Committee for its positive work and hope that we can continue to implement many of the concerns that citizens have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e26394	Next speaker: Mr Mag. It's a kilnauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e26416	Mr President. High house! Petitions and citizens' initiatives are becoming increasingly popular and increasingly well-known. That is also what Mrs Hell has already said: up to now a total of 105 petitions and citizens' initiatives. In the last legislative period, there were a total of 294. It is possible to say, with fug and law: If people move something, they start a petition or a citizens' initiative. Accordingly, these are also diverse. It is all the more remarkable that at present five concerns already concern house pharmacies and branches of domestic doctors. During the last period, there were four. This already shows that medical care in rural areas is moving people, and I, as mayor, too, am concerned with medical care, including home pharmacies, because it is partly already a problem to occupy doctors with checkout doctors. It's just more difficult to find doctors. A solution must therefore be found in cooperation with the Medical Chamber and the Pharmacy Chamber in order to continue maintaining good medical care and care for house pharmacies, especially in rural areas.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e26448	No one has been reported here in the word. The debate is closed. Vote on the request of the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives, its report 375 of the supplements relating to petitions No. 14, 21 and 24 as well as the citizens' initiatives No. to take note of 22, 46 and 52: I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[22:51:52]] 9. Point Report of the main committee on the reimbursement of an overall proposal for the election of the Chairmans of the Federal Parliamentary Commission in accordance with § 4 para. 9 of the 2001 Wehrgesetz (449 A.D.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e26487	We're coming to the 9th. Agenda item. Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Vavrik. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e26512	Mr President. High house! Dear citizens and especially dear members of the federal army! I was yesterday at an event called “Day of compulsory military service”, at the invitation of the military platform, which is the umbrella of the defence-political associations. [[Abg. Kogler: Who is the Inviter?]] We invited all the speakers of the parliamentary groups who also accepted the invitation, except the Greens, who did not report back. - Okay, I'm still talking about the federal army's appreciation. I have to tell you, this event was sobering for me. We were invited to participate in a panel discussion, and politicians, that is to say, politics – and we were opposed to politics – to expectations, demands and also criticism. It was partly explained to us with much emotion the feeling – I quote – of being exploited by state and politics. It was referred to the broken promises made in the run-up to the popular survey as compulsory. The question came to us: You're the lawmaker. How could it come so far that the German army is in this position today? In other words, there was disappointment, it was expressed the feeling of being abandoned, betrayed by politics – we are! – to be, so to be abandoned by us here in the High House. My question to you, ladies and gentlemen: Did we abandon the federal army? Do we have a positive signal on Wehrwille? Are we going to face unserious responsibility as a legislator? And it was not just the budget issue that came to mind, but the main issue was the importance of the federal army in society, i.e. the question of the restraint that the federal army receives from us. Dear members of the Federal Lord! The first answer to this question is given today. On the subject of the German army, only one thing has been reported tonight, the spokesperson of the smallest group in this House. [[Call to the Greens:The election proposal!]] It is probably not important enough to you, or perhaps your speaking time has also been used up on the topic of internal I. But that's only part of the answer. The second part of the answer was also delivered today, as it happens to be, an hour ago, namely the breakthrough of an amendment, 46 pages, presented on Friday, in the Committee on Monday, today. [[Call to the Greens:What are you talking about?]] [[Abg. Brosz: On the matter!]] This is an example of how Parliament gives up its responsibility, a sad proof that Parliament has become the government's executive body. This also came to the fore, and with it you have received the answer today. [[Abg. Cap: What a pot you're talking about!]] This is a low point of parliamentarianism today, ladies and gentlemen. Back to the German army: I'm new to this house, and I couldn't remember what law we've actually passed since the beginning of the legislative period. There is none, with one exception. Shortly before Christmas, we passed a law, well-known in the constitutional order. What was it about? – It was a question of increasing the Federal Commission from nine members to eleven, for one purpose only, namely to insert the SPÖ/ÖVP majority until 2020. We have found time and energy for this. I wonder what's useful to the federal army. I don't think so. In any case, one could think, well, the importance of the Federal Commission is at least high. I could not remember that we had discussed the report in the National Defence Committee, and I have looked at it, because I may have forgotten it. On Parliament's website, the annual report 2013 is as follows: Association to the National Defence Committee, deliberations not yet started. - Well, that's the 2013. I've been looking back. I was interested in what the National Defence Committee said. What was discussed? What's in the protocol? – 2012: Association to the National Defence Committee, deliberations not yet started. I have looked at the 2011 report. What's there? – Associations with the National Defence Committee, consultations not yet started; 2010 detto. Gentlemen! The reports of the German Federal Commission of 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013 and, since yesterday, 2014 remain unnoticed, unprocessed, unfinished in the State Defense Committee. This is the importance of Parliament's own body, the Federal Parliamentary Committee. There obviously a law was passed to maintain the majority, just for the sake of maintaining power, nothing else. By the way, this emergency braking action has caused us to have been since 1. Mr Janen and to the defense of the members without the Federal Commission. So the Federal Army Commission has turned off. This will not, of course, have the consequences of such a thing in the past. Nevertheless, it is not a piece of fame for this House that we have turned off the Federal Army Commission, though only temporarily. The reports are very informative. I would look at them, for example, in the 2014 report pages 23 to 32 on the reform of the military service, attracting the military service – very informative. Unfortunately, there is no good picture, but that would now break the time frame. I hope the debate is over. I'm going to conclude by saying: I'm trying to get a positive side of this new law. We will now elect the three members of the Presidency. These are three members of the house. You wonder why you needed a constitutional law here? The three political groups were at any time free to choose a member of the House, but, okay, probably there would be a constitutional law to ward off the desires of Has-Bens. I hope that now that three Members of this House are President of the Commission, this House will receive more attention. Perhaps it will be a first small step towards a better perception of the role of this House, namely the control of the administration. We owe this to the citizens; we owe it to the members of the federal army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e26599	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Since there is only one election proposal, I propose, ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with § 87 para. 7 GoG to vote by standing up and sitting down. Is there any objection to this? - That's not the case. Then I ask those ladies and gentlemen who have the request of the main committee in 449 of the supplements, according to which Members to the National Council Otto Pendl, Mag. Michael Hammeras well as Dr. Reinhard Eugen Bösch, Chairman of the Federal Parliamentary Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. In January 2015, starting six-year term of office will be elected, giving their consent to a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[23:00:24]] 10. Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Judith Schwentner, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law with which the Federal Law of 20 November 1885 was adopted. ==References====External links==* Official website I 72/2013, amended (693/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e26655	We're coming to 10. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. I give the floor to Mrs Mag. Schwentner's word. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e26682	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Yeah, what's this about? – It is a subject that has been raised several times by the Greens, including my fellow Sigrid Maurerund Alev Korun. We all know how necessary it is to earn it during the course of study because students can hardly afford to study if they do not work by the way. There are relevant data on this, and there is a great disparity between those who come from the EEA and from EU countries who have very normal access to the labour market here and those students who come from non-EEA countries. This is reflected in the fact that the first part of the study is allowed to work only 10 hours a week, and 20 hours per week from the second part of the study, usually not according to their qualification, but in the low-paid sector, i.e. peanuts, and would normally need more. It is therefore a non-modern, absurd treatment of students, of people who live here, who are partly fighting for their existence, because they cannot afford to do their training here. Although we allow them to do a training, we do not allow Austria to use its knowledge, qualities, qualifications as well as knowledge acquired here. We constantly discuss the red and white red card, that we need professionals who migrate that we need qualified immigrants – then I really think it is absurd that those who are there do not have the same right to participate in the labour market, who are studying that knowledge and skills. There is also no factual argument. You can still get German on this if that is perhaps what should come from the FPÖ colleagues. That means that even that would not be an obstacle, they study here. There is no factual argument, and there is no labour market argument either. It is also about 25,000 students, who will not all have to work the same way, but vie-le of them, and about 1,700 students of the FHs. I call for your support, and therefore my desire for a first reading so that we can discuss this first. I ask you for support in the sense of equality between students at our universities and FHs! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e26724	The next item is the speech by Mr Wimmer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e26746	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! My dear colleague, Mrs Schwentner! I can't join your desire. We have a slightly different view. We believe that the Foreign Employment Act is at present a very solid and good solution for the third-country nationals who are studying. For Bachelor's students 10 hours a week and 20 hours for Master's students. We still have enough opportunity in the Committee to present our arguments. By the way, I mean it's slow to do party tonight. So I close and wish you a nice good evening!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e26773	Next word: Mr. Dr. Däderle. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e26794	Mr President. High house! Some of the applicants' arguments are correct. It is indeed true that students are more and more working side by side. This has quite different reasons, not only the income situation, but also the fact that students are very often already sniffing into those areas that will later be their working world. In this respect, it is right to give the non-EEA citizens the opportunity to do so and thus also to have the opportunity, later highly qualified, in Austria. to keep educated graduates in our country more and more. That would therefore be quite an argument to consider a change. On the other hand, when you come here to study, you should also study here and not go to the labour market. A certain risk of abuse is therefore not to be rejected. My proposal is that this should be examined in detail in the Committee, that the quantities should also be examined, that the previous experiences should be looked at, and that it should also be decided emotionally and without prejudice in the sense of a braingain, as it is so much called. This means seeing the opportunities that may arise and not just fearing the dangers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e26831	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Kassinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e26852	Mr President. High house! I would just like to take a very brief look at what this proposal is really all about. It is only supposed to be about the equality of students from third countries with those from the EU area, it is also supposed to be about promoting students. In fact, it is about the so-called labour market examination, which you know very well, just in this Section 4 para. 7 Z 4 is excluded for certain groups of persons, including the pupils and students. As a result, no labour market examination is carried out if the employment ratio is less than 10 hours for Bachelors and less than 20 hours for Masters. You now want to delete this completely, i.e. the examination of whether the situation and development of the labour market allows employment – and this is rising in view of 457,000 unemployed people. That's the reason. The other reason: Is the state that without this labour market test already 10 hours or 20 hours can be worked. If students come to Austria, they should, please, study primarily and not work 40 hours!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e26882	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e26904	Mr President. Very soon: It's not about working 40 hours, just because they can work more than 10 hours in Bachelor's degree or more than 20 in Master's degree. Fatally, it is an absurd disparity again, because we are again discriminating because of the origin and people we have to study in Austria, which we should also be pleased about, namely that they are studying here, not allowing us to work to the extent that they would like. These are also explicitly the students who might also need it more, because these are people from third countries who have to pay us tuition fees, who may come from not so powerful conditions, and I do not think it makes any sense for the state to say there again: You can work, but only to the extent I imagine it. Similarly, we have this in the case of asylum seekers, where it is not the extent, but usually the employment itself. I do not understand why we need to discriminate against people because of their origin and not give everyone the same opportunities.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e26936	No one has been reported here in the word. The debate is closed. I accept Amendment No 693/A to the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. 11th@item: inlistbox Point First reading: Request by Mr Michael Pock, Members of Parliament, concerning a Federal Act amending the Motor Driving Act 1967 (842/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e26972	As the request for a first reading on Agenda item 11 has been withdrawn, it does not take place, and I shall immediately make the allocation. I accept Amendment 842/A by Mr Michael Pock, colleagues on a federal law which amends the motor vehicle law 1967, to the Transport Committee. The agenda is exhausted. [[23:09:16]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-21-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00059_d8e27012	I am still announcing that in today's session, the self-employed applications 855/A(E) to 882/A(E) were tabled. Question No 3481/J to 3492/J has also been raised. The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 23.10 a.m., immediately following this meeting. This meeting is closed.
