ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e8016	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Dear Members of the Federal Government! Mr President of the Court of Auditors. I wish you all a good morning and open the 104. Meeting of the National Council. The official protocols of the 100. Meeting of 11 and 12. ==References====External links== Meeting of 12. In November 2015, the Parliament's management remained inconvenient and undisputed. Deputies Wimmer, Ing. Heinz-Peter Hackl, Mag. Jarmer and Mag. Musiol. I announce that the session will be broadcast live today from ORF 2 to 1 p.m. and from ORF III in full length. [[09:07:04]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e8059	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e8249	I also say that the eighth report of the Incompatibility Committee has been distributed to the members of the National Council. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e8267	It is proposed that the debate on points 1 to 4 should be summarized, including general debate, as well as 5 and 6 of the agenda. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e8289	Between the members of the Presidential Conference, both for today's day and for the budgetary deliberations on Wednesday, 25th century. In November, a day-block speaking time of 9 Vienna hours was agreed, so that the following speaking times would be given for each meeting day: SPÖ and ÖVP each 122, FPÖ 113, Green 95 and NEOS and Stronach 50 minutes each. For Thursday, 26th. November, a day-block speaking time of 8 hours in Vienna has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP per 108, FPÖ 100, Green 84 as well as NEOS and Stronach per 44 minutes. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall be the speaking time of those Members who do not belong to a club within the framework of this Decision on today and on Wednesday each 25 minutes and on Thursday each 22 minutes. In addition, the speaking time of Members who do not belong to a club is limited to 5 minutes per debate. For the purposes of the procedure agreed by common accord at the Presidential Conference, the budget consultations on 890 and 891 of the Supplements shall be divided as follows: Today: Subdivisions 01 to 06 and 10, then: Subdivision 24, then: Subdivision 13 then: Heading 12 then: Heading 11. On Wednesday, 25. November: Subdivisions 20 to 22, then: Heading 32, then: Subdivisions 42 and 43, then: Heading 25, then: Subdivision 30. On Thursday, 26. November: Heading 31 then: subheadings 33 and 40, then: subheadings 34 and 41, then: Subdivision 14 then: Headings 15, 16, 23, 44, 45, 46, 51 and 58 and Text of the Federal Finance Act and other parts of Appendix I, including Appendices II to IV. The final vote will then take place. This is also a written statement to the honourable Member. In any event, the intended breakdowns will be discussed on the same day and the meeting will be suspended thereafter. Resolutions shall be submitted in the case of the respective subdivisions. The vote on any motions for resolutions tabled shall be taken each time after the third reading on item 5 or item 6 in the order in which they are submitted. The term of office for members of the government according to § 57 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure shall not be used, but, if the 20 minutes exceed for each member of the government responsible for the respective advisory groups, or if the 10 minutes exceed for each State Secretary responsible for the respective advisory groups, the time allocated for the discussion shall be at ==References== The speaking time of non-governmental government members or state secretaries shall at least be counted on the time of the respective government group. With the exception of this, the speaking time of the Federal Chancellor and the Vice-Cancellor at the General debate shall be the time of the debate, provided that it does not exceed the duration of 20 minutes each. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this proposal for a sign on this point. – This is unanimously accepted. Then we'll do the same. Let's go into the agenda. [[09:13:21]] 1. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (821, e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, with which the Federal Budget Act 2013, the Federal Liability Board, the Corporate Service Portal Act, the Competition Act, the Voluntary Law, the Family Tax Compensation Act 1967, the Unemployment Insurance Act 1977, the Labour Market Policy Finance Act, the General Social Insurance Act, the Agricultural Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act, the Civil Health and Accident Insurance Act, the Bundesmuseen Act 2002, the Health and Food Safety Act, the Food Safety and Consumer Protection Act, the Disaster Fund Act 1996 and the Drugs Act, and a Federal Law on the grant of a federal grant to the Federal Land of Salzburg on the occasion of the 200-year membership to Austria (Budgetsamtgesetz 2016) (882 d.B.) 2. Point Report and request of the Budget Committee on the draft federal law amending the Court of Auditors Act 1948 (883, e.g.) 3rd. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (846, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act approving the justification of pre-taxes by the Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology (884 d.b.) 4. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the financial statements for 2014 (III-199 d.a.) and on the Financial statements for the year 2014 (Proposal for a comparison of estimates as at 31. ) (III-162 d.a.) (885 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e8462	We come to points 1 to 4 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. The debate on Agenda items 1 to 4 also includes the general debate. Mr Klubobmann was the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e8495	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen in plenary and in front of the television screens! It is always a similar or the same procedure: The Minister of Finance's budget speech is eagerly expected and hopes that there will also be a rethinking there and that fundamental reforms will finally be remembered and implemented. Then there is a bitter awakening time and again, when you evaluate the naked numbers, including this budget. Thus, the path of debt will once again be consistently continued, ultimately at the expense of society, at the expense of our children and children. And that's a shame, because once again the budget is ultimately ambitious. We have a result budget where €9.8 billion of new debt will be made at the end of the year, and that is not responsible. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And I say, when it comes to real future prospects, and finally, that you really need to make a rethink, then you're wrong with this budget again. And this is a failure of the Federal Government. Unfortunately, this is not once again a step towards sustainable budget reform, but rather the continuation of the previous path, of a reformist stand, and a real refusal of reform, which is also continuing here in this budget by the government. And that's sad, but not really surprising. For a long time, the motto of this government has been “designing rather than managing”. And the problem is that you can't even really manage well. How much this government is dileting is seen on the basis of the tax reform. The minimum reliefs, which have been made on one side or on the other, are re-emerged by the cold progression and the insatiable increases in fees and taxes on the other. This is not a sustainable tax savings or a tax reduction for citizens as we need them. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Counter-financing is also extremely dubios, for example from the fight against fraud. It's supposed to be $1.9 billion. This is probably not even known by the Minister of Finance how this should work. It is quite clear that the Austrians are very tax-respective in international comparison. In a realistic way, the requirement to register funds will bring perhaps half a billion euros, if at all, and thus only a very small part of the counter-financing. For smaller companies in particular, this acquisition and this obligation of the register bank is somewhat unpleasant, namely a great burden. And many companies, of course, also complain about this burden. It's not useful in our eyes. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And what concrete expenditure-side measures should there be in order to achieve the planned €1.1 billion in administrative and support savings, it is said. We're waiting for it with great excitement. You could bring a lot of examples. I say that an essential part, which in any case condemns any meaningful budget planning to fail, is also the negligent, even dangerous, approach of the government to the current development of modern international migration, which is always so salopp in a global headline as a wave of refugees. We are dealing with a modern international migration, where, on the one hand, the European Union has for months demonstrated its complete failure and failure, and on the other hand, the Austrian state and the government are not prepared to compensate for this failure by at least securing and protecting its own state borders, with appropriate controls, including registrations and the corresponding legal requirements of the Foreign Police Act. Nothing like that happens! More than 500 000 people, if they want to do so, have immigrated to Austria unlawfully or illegally, because there has been no controls, there are no registrations either. We also do not know how many people have gone on and how many have stayed here, because the number of people staying here is always measured only by who has applied for asylum. But the fact that many people are living here, who have not yet submitted an application, is almost kept silent. The fact that many are probably also deluded into illegality is also kept silent. We have to deal with a security problem which has been evident for months now, where we have also pointed out that, but there is no change to this day that is going in the direction of finally ending this huge situation at the borders of Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I say that we have a federal government which, in a totally irresponsible way, has completely opened the borders and thus also abandoned part of the sovereign powers of the Republic. And it is completely unclear, and I would like to stress once again how many people have been introduced, and whether the people who have been admitted are actually refugees within the meaning of the Geneva Convention or not. Because without checks and registration one cannot see this difference and this differentiation is not at all possible. It is therefore unreasonable to say that it is only those in need of protection who are acting as you have done. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is therefore irresponsible, above all, towards your own population – because it is about your being responsible for this, of course. Of course, if we look at overall development, we also face massive further problems – not only security problems, but of course cost problems, integration problems that are not even thought through. We have been experiencing massive problems of integration over the last decades. In view of this modern international migration, the illegal mass immigration that is now taking place thanks to your responsibility, we want to ensure that it is integrated. But all of this means blatant additional costs in the field of basic care, needs-oriented minimum security, labour market promotion measures – in the case of a record unemployment that we have, and where we do not know where people will be going in the future when it comes to integrating them into a work process – in dealing with asylum procedures, the assistance of the German army, the care of transit refugees, yes, also in teaching at schools. These are many, many factors, and even internal calculations from the Ministry of Finance have seen the light of the public that in the next four years, some €12.4 billion of additional costs are expected. One has then demented this in the course of the Vienna election campaign and, of course, disputed, but of course there is also a very, very high load to be expected. If not at all in all the areas, Austria is in the truest sense of the word in front of a disaster – otherwise you cannot express it. I say and we say that every year no reforms in view, no rethinking in view, the debt mountain will continue to be accumulated – by more than €66 billion since 2006 to currently €285.8 billion or 87 percent of total economic performance per year. [[Inter-remark of Vice-Chancellor Mitterlehner]] In other words: Every Austrian, from the baby to the big one, is indebted with proud 30,820 €. Recalculated to the employees, debt per capita is €68 525, and only €8.3 billion of tax money that is laboriously worked out must only be paid annually at interest rates and, of course, falls away for the construction of schools, hospitals and the support of minimum pensioners – and not least for an effective tax reform that really deserves this name, which would be necessary so that finally sustainable discharge can reach service providers and develop the economy accordingly, the companies will also be competitive again. What Austria needs is a budget balanced over the economic cycle, a goal that, unfortunately, under red and black God has never been attacked and has also been pushed far away. We also want to ensure that they are not burdened with further debt for the next generations, because you will be retired sometime, but other generations will have to do what you left behind. This is not the responsibility we want and imagine. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I say that it is the meaning and purpose of the state and it should be to enable citizens to get the best living conditions from the perspective of sustainability. [[Call to the ÖVP:... talk!]] The cold progression has also decided to be combated – even this is not the case – because it ensures that many workers and pensioners automatically slide into higher tax classes and therefore pay higher taxes without making more real. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kirchgatterer.]] The expropriation of cold progression must be ended by a comprehensive collective reform linked to inflation. We've been demanding all of this for years, and you've been guilty of it now. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] At last, the state must pay less money, the tax and tax rate must fall from the maximum tax rate from 45.2 percent to below 39 percent! We are icons of revenue today, but also icons of expenditure at the same time. That means the state fails here. There's just a need for rethinking! We do not have a revenue problem, but the expenditure problem, which has been obvious for years and which we repeatedly point out. In 2014 alone, €20.8 billion was distributed to funding funds. This is also 12 percent of public expenditure, where one has to say: There we are European champions! There's a huge potential there that you need to deal with more responsibly. What it also needs is a slimming-out cure for the tax system, that is to say, easier laws and removal of tax duties and taxes, redecodification of tax law, and tax law must be simpler and fairer. There is a need for action in all these areas, and it is only time and again that we have had to experience for years that we are drawing attention to these misdevelopments, that even there or there, when it comes to administrative reforms, of course, the President of the Court of Auditors, Dr. Moser, who is present today, also points out that there is a need for sustainable reforms, but unfortunately they do not come to God and they continue to wrangle as before. It is sad and sad that this is so, and unfortunately God is also sad to have to repeat himself here again and again – but I have also given up hope. [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: Yes...!]] We are dealing with a government that is neither capable of learning nor self-reflection, but simply always follows the same thread. It's a shame, but I can't imagine you giving your own way some confidence or faith. In any case, the population is rightly disappointed if one finds that a government is continuing in the way it is not able to learn.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e8605	Next word reported: Mr. Klubobmann Mag. Arbitrator. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e8629	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Dear Seers! The plenary session until the day after tomorrow is in line with the 2016 budget, and the budget decision, as well as the budget discussions, are, of course, which are happening in particularly difficult times here. It is not only the international security situation, it is also the consequences of the financial and economic crisis – which have not yet been digested, either in Europe or in the OECD world – the framework conditions that do not reduce the challenges. Nevertheless, it has succeeded in bringing forward some of the necessary reforms in this country, very often, even though many commentators have found it would be nothing. I would just like to mention the tax reform, which – also recognised by Austrian economic researchers – also provides an important economic impulse, provides a growth impulse and also growth impulses, which are further reinforced by investment. At the same time, however, the draft has also succeeded in reducing the debt of the government budget in turn, i.e. the consolidation rate to continue the course of a stable budget and government budget. If we look at only the tax reform, which is also an important point for consolidation, since only through growth can budget recovery succeed, then a 5 billion discharge in relation to a GDP of over €300 billion is a very large and noticeable discharge. It benefits 6.4 million people and becomes 1st. January 2016 can be felt directly in the wallets of the Austrians. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The distribution effect is also a real one, because 91 percent of the volume of discharge flows into those income groups that earn less than €4500, that is to say to the small, small and medium-sized earners of this country. Even for the first time, those small pensioners with such a low pension that they are below €11 000 a year can also benefit from the so-called negative tax in the future. In my opinion, counter-financing is not only a successful and serious one, but also an important one: Fighting fraud, increasing purchasing power, economic effects, asset-related revenue and sound administrative savings make this tax reform concept a good package. Thanks to the tax reform, but also the general economic impulses inside the budget, growth will also increase again. The economic research institute predicts growth of 0.7 percent this year, the double growth of 1.4 percent of GDP next year – which is still a delicate plant, but it shows that the price is right, because the growth curve is pointing upward. The growth impulses set by investment are also responsible for this: €300 million for broadband expansion, €200 million for economic support in the area of research premium, SME support, €50 million for the supported housing and also a large labour market package, because the labour market is the worry child of this economic development. Therefore, it is also necessary, on the side of a responsible policy, to try to counter the labour market by financial means. In total, it is €300 million for 2016, which is available for active labour market policies. This is 50 million more than in the previous year, i.e. this year, and as of 2017, it will even be 350 million €. These are figures and resources, which at the end mean 12 000 to 16 000 employees. The reduction of additional wage costs for entrepreneurs, the gradual reduction by €1 billion by 2018, will of course give an economic and employment impetus. Perhaps we are still looking at the investments in the budget in economy, infrastructure and the environment: almost €4 billion for the expansion of rail and road infrastructure, €1 billion by 2020 for broadband infrastructure, of which 300 already mentioned 2016, flood protection, which will be increased from €19 million to €32 million. These are all very important growth impulses. However, it is also true that the budget takes account of the changed international and national security situation. The funds are also intended for increased basic provision for asylum seekers, and it is also planned that the foreign disaster fund will be increased, so the cuts we have had in recent years in the field of development cooperation will also be reduced. Austria also makes its international contribution to security and stability with money. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] That is, in sum, ladies and gentlemen, I believe it is a budget which, under the strict and difficult conditions, nevertheless makes what is necessary to invest in employment, infrastructure and growth. Therefore, I also believe that Austria's budget course, which pays attention to social justice and just consolidation, is a good one.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e8702	Reported as follows: Clubwoman Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e8723	Madam President. A nice morning, ladies and gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! We have now, I think, given our best in the committees as a green club for a few weeks. The Green Club Members have made proposals, unfortunately the main criticisms we have made and the proposals we have made in some areas have not been accepted. I would like to sum up once again today and ask you, once again, to think seriously about making further improvements in these areas. On the major and important issue of education policy, we have now received a concept from the Federal Government on 17th, but the insane gap of € 340 million remains open. I cannot imagine that you really want to go to a budget year where the security of financing the education sector is so much uncertain. I urge you once again not to simply leave this hole in the next few days! This means not only massive uncertainty for teachers, but also, above all, for pupils who cannot be sure whether the quality, which is not yet enough, can be maintained. In this sense: The gap in the education budget must be closed until the decision-making on Thursday! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Stroll.]] The second area, which, I believe, cannot be understood and must not remain, is as follows: We are now before the beginning of a very large UN conference in Paris, the United Nations has been working for many years to establish a global climate agreement. Meanwhile, we can be a little more positive, the signs are good. Of the 196 participating countries, four-fifths of the states have already registered climate change targets, i.e. the opportunities are very, very good. However, what happens at the same time in the Austrian budget, what have you presented here? – They have drastically reduced the most important climate protection instruments of the Austrian climate policy de facto – and this is not only a climate-political shame, but it is also very devastating in terms of labour market policy. [[Abg. Kogler: Shame!]] They will reduce half a billion euros of investment in the next few years, which means 8,000 jobs. This cannot be your serious problem in view of this labour market situation, in fact, to hinder Austrian investment. This is mainly about instruments where co-financing by companies, by private, by companies, by house builders happens, and these are de facto impossibility by the cuts. The rehabilitation check for thermal rehabilitation – which you were very proud of, which you also praised as a growth instrument – is de facto halved. Environmental support for businesses will be removed, and the climate and energy funds, where thousands of municipalities, mayors and mayors, actually make climate protection on the ground, will also be removed. I wonder, How unreasonable can one be? – in these times, not only growth policy, labour market policy, but also a week before the crucial climate conference. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] I believe that you too, Minister of Finance, are interested in the fact that, in this very difficult process of trusting industrialized countries, a sign of Austria is being concluded. I also ask for serious thought and consideration. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The third area – I don't know how often we have to say it – all talk about the following question: How do you deal with the refugees now? How do you do that? What is a decent supply on the border? What is a decent accommodation? How to deal with the challenge in Europe? [[Call the ÖVP:Seehofer...!]] And everyone is also talking about the need to support international organisations that take care of the reception, the care, the feeding of refugees. What happens at the same time in the Austrian budget? – It is really absurd that exactly the contributions for the UNHCR, i.e. for the refugee relief work of the UN, but also for the child assistance work – which has been proven to have sent calls to the State community last year, we can no longer deliver any more aid packages, we can no longer deliver any packages to hundreds of thousands of children. And what happens in the Austrian budget? – Just in the area is further shortened. That is probably not possible, Minister of Finance. I mean, we can give ourselves so much responsibility here, and I ask you to correct it! We will also make proposals to this effect, which is still urgent and detailed. The UN's World Food Programme: I repeat, but it can't be that it's actually being purchased that 1.7 million Syrians in the refugee camps around the crisis camps can no longer receive subsidies for food and Austria is not involved in this question. That can't be! We have not received a reply from the Foreign Minister here in the committees, what is actually happening with this World Food Programme and where the Austrian contributions are hidden. Our impression is that there are no contributions – and that can't be, and I also ask for further improvement here! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There has been a change in one area, and I would like to address it. It is about the issue of the relief of the factor work, and that is a good approach in itself, which we support. The aim is to reduce service providers' contributions to the family compensation fund. You can discuss that. It is about a scale – you obviously want to relieve the economy – up to 1 billion € up to the year 2018. This is on and on and on, which is not good, is that it is likely to be at the expense of the families. There is no counter-financing. They know the condition of the family compensation fund, it is chronically overdebted, for a long time. The Minister of Family could not present us with any financial development over the next few years. I ask you: Skill Do you really guarantee performance security for the Austrian families here and today if 1 billion is actually removed from FLAF by 2018? [[Abg. Rädler: That's not true!]] [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: The benefits are in the law!]] [[Call the ÖVP: Will be less per year!]] Money just doesn't increase by itself. It's a natural law. FLAF is not a banknote, FLAF is a fund. There are certain means in there, but here there are gradually going down with the contributions to go down with the food and on the other hand to make no counter-funding available, not to consider at all how to ensure this for the future, which is extremely irrational to the Austrian families. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Interference of Vice-Chancellor Mitterlehner.]] You have now tabled this as an amendment as well as very presumptuous. The changes will only take effect from 2017. I wonder why we do not discuss this more seriously. Let us really consider redefinition of the family tax compensation fund, let us consider whether this could not be done as part of a tax structure reform! On the other hand, there is also the possibility whether the capital-related The area is or is the environment-related area, which is to be redesigned in the framework of an overall reform. I don't know what's talking about that. Why do we have to do this by force on amendments in committee without consideration...? [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: That was prepared for 30 years!]] – You prepared it for 30 years? [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: Yes, demanded, yes!]] For 30 years you have called for it to be true, but good preparation looks different than just 1 billion € more on pump so to say... [[Abg. Fekter: You can only do anything bad! Have you said anything positive yet?]] - No, no, no! I have said that the provision is absolutely good, I am very much in favour of reducing contributions to service providers in the context of a reasonable, intelligent tax reform. On the contrary, we have been doing this since 99 in the concept of "advertising other peoples: the eco-social tax reform of the Greens", we have calculated this and have since discussed dozens of times with you. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] But simply clear 1 billion € at the expense of the families is really responsible!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e8903	Next speaker: Mr Klubobmann Dr. Lopatka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e8924	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear Members of the Federal Government! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! The three-day budget debate is, of course, overshadowed by the wave of refugees and the terrorist attacks. ==References== We know on November that this supposedly healing world in which the European Union has elected itself does not actually exist. Yes, we need more money for security and we will spend more money on security next year! And we also need more money for refugees here in the country and, above all, Mr Glawischnig, also for refugees in the crisis regions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] One more thing I can say very clearly to you, because we should not be unnecessarily uncertain: In 2016, family benefits will be increased. It will not be shortened, it will be increased by 1.9 percent and will increase by 1.9 percent in 2018. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: And further exported!]] Austria is at the forefront of family benefits with more than 8 billion Europe-wide! Please note, Mrs Glavischnig: We are at the forefront of Europe when it comes to services for our families! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kitzmüller: That's not true!]] [[Further calls to FPÖ and Greens.]] With this budget presented by Minister of Finance Schelling, we are moving in the right direction overall – a budget that has been drawn up under special circumstances. On the one hand – Mr Schieder has referred to it – the economic situation will start, but it is nevertheless a sluggish economy. On the other hand, there are additional expenditure taken into account in the budget, which is more than 700 million refugees alone. And, of course, on the revenue side, there is a big minus. Why a big minus? – Because this tax reform, this discharge of taxpayers directly affects the budget. And this tax reform has a large volume: a volume of €5 billion. Under these conditions, to achieve the set goals that we have also announced after Brussels in 2016 is an achievement that you should recognise! Ladies and gentlemen, it's no time for us to rest. Of course, in order to achieve what we have budgeted, we must also have the willingness to reform. We must address these reforms, because we still have a state of debt that we must bring down: 85 percent are too high! But we have managed to reduce this debt ratio for the first time since 2013. And with this budget we can also achieve a structural zero deficit for the third time, and we are still in the lead in Europe when I look at the EU-28. We have no revenue problem. We also achieved what we budgeted on revenue in 2015. Yeah, we'll be a little better at the end of the year. And it will be like that in 2016. € 72 billion, € 72 000 million will be paid to the state fund. [[Abg. Bitch: And 82,000 go out again!]] However, on the expenditure side, we have a hole of 77 billion, and we must do everything we can to get on with the big cost drivers. Of course, the large cost drivers include pension expenditure. In 2000 we had total expenditure from the budget of €10 billion, now we have spending more than €20 billion, i.e. a doubling. If we don't do anything here, we will have an increase of €4.5 billion by 2019. That's where we're called on to do something. – No intervention in existing pensions, not at all! But we have everything to do that the pensions are also secured for next generations. The sooner we start, the more successful we will be here too. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this tax reform, which I would like to say already, because the opposition speakers have now spoken small, brings something to everyone. [[Abg. Kassinger: Not really the entrepreneurs!]] I only call you three examples: A working couple, the man deserves 3 500 €, the wife 1 700 €, gets in 2016, only through the tax reform, 2 331 € in addition. An entrepreneur who manages to generate €50,000 in annual incomes is also available through tax reform € 1 633. Also a pensioner who has a nice pension of 1 800 € gets 842 € in addition. Ladies and gentlemen, this is something! That's what the opposition parties should see! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And that this tax reform also provides an impetus for growth – the Wifo has calculated: 20 000 additional jobs – also help us in the area addressed by Klubobmann Strache, which is also the issue of number one for us: the creation of jobs, and we are only able to achieve this through economic growth. [[Abg. Kogler: Go, please!]] This tax reform is also a major contribution. The last point I would like to address is: In the last place, Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Economic Affairs Reinhold Mitterlehner has enforced this additional wage reduction for entrepreneurs, which accounts for up to € 1 billion a year. That too is something you need to see in this situation. It wasn't easy, but it's been enforced. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen: This federal government with Finance Minister Schelling is on a good path, the 2016 budget makes a good contribution to this.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e9058	Next word reported: Mr Klubobmann Dr. Stroll. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e9103	Madam President. Dear Members of the Government! Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear citizens! We are negotiating the 2016 budget, and here it is important to ask some questions: Does anyone really think seriously of the 183 Members here, of the members of the Federal Government, that this budget is unique? Does anyone really believe that this budget is generation-friendly? Does anyone really believe that this budget is sustainable? - Then let him report. [[Call SPÖ and ÖVP:Yes! Yes!]] [[Some of the ÖVP's representatives point out.]] – Then you lack transparency or seriousness. Fact is, for 54 years you have made reliable new debts every year. Next year, in the earnings budget, you will place €9.8 billion of further debt on it! That's not okay! 9.8 billion € more debt – that's not okay, that's not a single fit, that's not future fit. [[It was in favour of the NEOS as well as of representatives of the FPÖ.]] They eat the children and grandchildren in the truest sense of the word the hair of the head! That's how it looks! They eat the hair from the head to the children and grandchildren. And you shouldn't do that. [[It was in favour of the NEOS as well as of representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] €9.8 billion new debt is getting the young people watching today into their backpacks! €9.8 billion new debt you get into your backpacks! – Only to make this dimension visible. [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: There are no children there!]] Mr Mitterlehner, for 1.1 million students in Austria we spend about €8 billion a year. That is, next year you will make more additional debts on the record debt of this Republic since the end of the war than you spend for 1.1 million students. These are immense sums! These are immense sums! For 54 years you have been making debts, and next year you continue this course. [[Abg. Krainer: That's totally wrong what you're saying!]] This, Mr Krainer, is not a natural law to impose new debts on it! [[Abg. Kickl: With the Socialists already!]] [[Abg. Strache: Is not the money of the Socialists!]] Switzerland has balanced households. Or Sweden: There the Social Democrats deserved themselves. They should take you as an example! Sweden has supplied balanced budgets for years. The Germans have budget surpluses. These are not natural laws, these debt policies you make! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] Second question, Mr Schieder: Does anyone really believe here that this budget will create jobs next year? [[Yes, at SPÖ and ÖVP.]] – Whoever believes that, he lacks the seriousness as well. You know exactly, Mr Schieder, we will first break through the sound wall of 500 000 unemployed in this Republic at the beginning of next year – half a million people without work. And this government is next to the trail, without concepts, without answers; They come with a tax reform that will help you further promote unemployment. The next year, Mr Mitterlehner, we will obtain about 40 000 new and additional unemployed people, and each one of these fates is a tragic fate, for families, for the environment. That's a fact! Does anyone really believe here that this federal government has in mind where we really should invest, in research, in education, in innovation? – Yes, where are you going, Mr. Schieder? [[Abg. Arbitrator: Yes!]] You don't do it! You don't do it! [[Abg. Arbitrators: We do it! Broadband, ÖBB, road construction, floods, education reform!]] Mr Schieder, you are presenting here a budget in which you have a hole of 350 million once again in the field of education, just like this year, where you know from the outset... [[Abg. Fekter: You don't need to scream like that, we understand you.]] – Mrs Fekter, you should know better, you have cared for the Ministry of Finance! They present a budget where you know from the outset that hundreds of millions are missing in education. That's not responsible! You can't do that! [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Bitch.]] That is how you cannot deal with Parliament; I have already accused it this year. You can't come here with a budget where you already know from the beginning that doesn't work out, that's a dizziness. – And I do not think it should be done so. [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: Calm down a bit!]] – I find it difficult, Mr Mitterlehner, to calm me down when you present such things. Another thing that cries out to heaven, Mr Mitterlehner: In 2009, your predecessor as a party leader, then as a finance minister, presented the transparency database. Good idea, but what's happened since then? – Since 2009, you have not come to terms because your country princes simply refuse any cooperation here. We split up in 2013: 18 billion € funding in Austria. This is the feeding ground for structural corruption in Austria. [[Abg. Wheeler: Hello!]] Why? – Because it is carried out in the dark in Austria: Double promotion here, triple promotion there, feeding your clients in large style. [[Abg. Wöginger: Well, where are we?- Oh, my God!]] Now the question is: Are you willing to offer the prince of darkness the forehead and say to the princess of the country: Now light in the dark! [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] No, you're not ready. You, Mr Finanzminister, even removed the objective of “effective funding in the state” from this budget. Mr Minister, you have promised to the Budget Committee that you will be looking for detours, but the fact is that you need to capitulate here, Minister of Finance! I acknowledge the good will of Hans Jörg Schelling. The problem is that he is tied up here by a power cartel of the unscrupulous government parties, the egocentric state princes and the unscrupulous social partners. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: Why are you so excited?]] I am excited, Mr Mitterlehner, yes! I am excited about this shadow government of the non-returnable possessors who keep Austria under control. This means we have to leave, but, dear citizens, there you are on the train, you can only change it by elections. The citizens must take that into their hands.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e9349	Next word reported: Mr Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e9370	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Strolz, you should perhaps take an example of your group's colleague Loacker, who has made a good proposal to the bonus-malus system which the government parties have included, which we decide together today. You should perhaps make a little bit of a matter policy and also be a bit objective here from the speaker's desk, instead of being so unbelievable and emotional. Being emotional is good anyway, but it should also have something to do with the thing. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This budget, of course, is unique. But it's not just ankle fit, it's also omafit. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] It's about making a budget here for all parts of society, not just for one part. And if you say that “only” 8 billion € will be spent on the students, you will forget that for example, we will also spend 3 billion € for family aid. Of course, family policy money also benefits pupils, not just education policy. That is, if you look at this seriously and objectively, then you simply come to quite different results. This debate is at all a bit de facto-free, especially when opposition speakers are here on the pult; the colleague, Mr Strache, is one of the best examples of this. If you look at the facts on this budget, it is relatively clear: Firstly, the budgets. That is, whenever it is said, the budgets don't hold, it runs out of the row, that's totally wrong. A single budget held “not” – under quotation marks – that was 2009, at the height of the crisis. 2010: better than budgeted, 2011: better than budgeted, 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015 as well. In this respect, we can assume that if a budget is presented here, this budget will also hold. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] – That’s a fact, you can say: Yes, the budgets presented hold, even though economic growth is much lower than forecast by the economic research institutes. Second: This tax reform is not a small matter, but it is the greatest relief for taxpayers since the 1970s. We remember that when the liberals were in the government and the finance ministers put it, the average relief of an employee was €7.83, I think. Now it's more than tenfold! That's just a fact! If the liberals did the “greatest tax reform of all time” at the time, as the liberals then claimed – the colleague Bösch remembers, he was sitting here, the colleague Rosenkranz was sitting here – she was only one tenth the size of the present. That is, when you look at the facts, you come to it, that's not a small one, but it's a very, very big discharge, and the Austrians will also notice this in a few weeks. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is then claimed here that the tax and tax rate would be the highest of all time. – That’s also wrong! We had the highest tax and tax rate in 2001 under a blue finance minister. [[Abg. Strache: It's wrong! It's proven to be wrong!]] This tax and tax ratio is still unattainable, as we do not even get close. [[Abg. Strache: You're a bit about it today!]] The truth is, the tax and tax rate is falling next year, it does not rise at all, it is falling! [[Abg. Kassinger: What happened until 2007? You have to say that too!]] If you deal with the facts, then you will also get the right result. Of course, if you speak freely and freely here, you can say what you want to say. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Yes, this crisis has greatly increased the debt of the Republic. They have fallen from the mid-1990s to the outbreak of the crisis, from almost 70 percent to under 60, and since the outbreak of the crisis, and this has been deliberately accepted. This applies, by the way, to almost all countries of the European Union. There was, however, a much stronger increase on average than we had. In 2016, the debt falls again for the first time, i.e. we have made the turnaround and the debt of the Republic is falling. [[Abg. Kassinger: That's wrong! The quota is falling, but the stand is not sinking!]] Of course he's sinking. We expect as a percentage of GDP, which is something like how many monthly salaries one has debt, and of course this value drops from about seven months to six and a half, and that is a good way. Therefore, you don't come out and talk about record debts when they actually fall next year! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Depending on how to turn it!]] Mr Schieder has not rightly said that the child of concern we really need is the labour market, that is, unemployment. This is an issue that you really have to oppose and which you also have to devote yourself politically. But you also have to say: Yes, there are more unemployed people, but there are also more jobs! That is, what this government is creating is a plus of jobs every year. Only: It's too few because more people are pushing on the labour market because people work longer, later retire, because more birth-like years are pushing on the labour market because more women are going to work – that's all good news. But what it will certainly be about next year and what the focus must be on is to ensure that unemployment decreases. This, I believe, must be the central point on which this government is working: that we are able to reduce unemployment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e9500	Mr Klubobmann Lugar came next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e9521	Madam President. High house! We are talking about the budget today, and we should look at what red and black call a big throw, the tax reduction. We have a wage and income tax reduction of €5 billion in the budget. On the other hand, we make 5 billion € new debts. That is, we give people a discharge and burden them with interest and interest interest in the future if they have to repay it. Many are not really clear about this, so I would like to give you an example. Imagine, you live in a house community and there is a house management that cannot manage: It pours the money out of the window, employs large numbers of administrative staff and continuously increases operating costs. Instead of being properly managed, operating costs are increased every year – as in Austria: Taxation will be constantly increased, but the reforms will not be implemented. This house management comes one day because the tenants are already very dissatisfied in view of the constantly rising operating costs, to the glorious idea: We might be able to reduce operating costs – but not because we are working better, not because it is because the tenants deserve to pay less, no, but we simply take up a loan, and with this credit we simply cover the failure caused by the lower revenue! That's exactly what the Federal Government is doing: Instead of making a proper economy, instead of finally creating the room for play by saving the public’s pensions, health, administration and promotions in order to finally reduce taxes without new debts, it simply makes new debts, this tax reduction gives the citizens as a great gift – purchase at voter’s expense – and the citizens then have to repay it, in foreseeable time, in the form of new taxes with interest and interest interest. That's the strategy behind it! Unfortunately, only the least understood this. The least understands that when you make a budget that increases the debt, and on the other hand you lower the taxes to the same extent, which ultimately has to be paid back with interest and interest interest. – That’s exactly how it works here, and that’s the problem! If we are already talking about reforms, we must also maintain that for decades now we have again and again ministers of finance who are producing themselves here – you are not the first, Mr Schelling – and tell us, there must be saved, there must be saved, in the administration, in pensions, in the promotions, everywhere must be saved. But nothing happens! Taxation will be increased, and the economy will be out of date, and that is the problem. This is the problem we have in this Republic. And then if you have a fiscal problem, what are you doing? – Then go here and say: Okay, where can we take additional taxes? Then: While you lower taxes on the one hand, wage and income tax, on the other hand, you want to collect more taxes. Now I am not talking about the inheritance tax that you have reintroduced through the back door, but let's look at the registration fee requirement! [[Federal Minister Schelling: Here you are a specialist!]] This is supposed to bring in 1 billion euros. Now I wonder if through the register, these billions will come in, how can that work? That is to say, there are a lot of small businesses in Austria, including a lot of gastronomy that seem to pass the Fiscus every year. That's clear, isn't it? Everyone understood that, didn't they? If you say that you want to take 1 billion €, that means nothing else but that 1 billion euros of taxes from these small businesses will be spent by these small businesses. It may be that you're right about this, but: Why Look Are you exactly where these companies are acting in an act of self-defense – and not in order to buy a second yacht? This is also happening in Austria, but in large businesses, the legal possibilities of tax avoidance are useful by using loopholes, namely tax loopholes. That's it, too! [[Abg. Arbitrator: The Stronach, isn't it?]] They are also de facto past the Minister of Finance, but legally, with possibilities you give them. But those small businesses that seem to be passing the finance minister's economy, they don't buy another yacht somewhere at the Côte d'Azur, but they do it because otherwise they won't survive. [[Abg. Matznetter: The third!]] They'll do it because they'll lock up otherwise! Now, of course, I also believe that everyone has to pay their taxes – because if all pay their taxes, all pay less taxes, that is no question. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Say this to the Stronach!]] The only question is whether we are going here and killing thousands of small businesses, because we are not giving them a possibility of legal survival. [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: How does she look?]] That's the problem! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] “How does it look?” – Well, that’s great at all: Mr. Vice-Chancellor, who is sitting behind me, asks me how it looks that small businesses can be given a legal opportunity to survive. [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner:... no taxes, or how?]] Go out to the small gastronomy shops and see! They suffer from your tax burden, which suffer from your bureaucratic obstacles that you have built up that suffer under your laws! [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: Under what tax burden?]] And if you don't give them the opportunity to breathe, if you don't give them the opportunity to survive legally, you know what happens then? - They're locked! I talked to some out there. They say: I'm not stupid, I'm not going to work for the Minister of Finance! If the register now comes, I work all year for zero Euro! – What do you think they'll do this for? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Tamandl.]] That means you have to reduce the additional wage costs in the gastronomy. [[Abg. Matznetter: Who is this?]] You have to allow businesses to generate these billions you want to push out here, too, legally. [[Abg. What are you talking about?]] That's why it's all right! [[Vice chancellor Mitterlehner: Talk about the sales tax!]] And you don't do that! [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and FPÖ as well as the Abg. Stroll.]] What you're doing is: You push the money out because you need it in the budget because you can't operate, and don't give these businesses any chance to survive. Do you know what's going to happen? [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: This is catastrophic what you are there...! ... unsuspectingly!]] – Let’s talk about it again in a year! Now I'm telling you what's going to happen: There will be thousands of businesses locked up, a lot of small restaurants, especially those in the countryside, which are also close-up suppliers. They will release a lot of employees, who will then be unemployed, and these entrepreneurs will become unemployed themselves; and then you can hire them at the Chamber of Labour, at the union or at the Economic Association, for elsewhere they will no longer find work. (Interested remarks by Vice-Chancellor Mitterlehner as well as calls for call by Mrs Wöginger and Mr Matznetter. ) That's the problem! That's why: Look, do your homework! [[Abg. Matznetter: Illegal...!]] If you want all of them to pay their taxes – I'm quite for that... – Don't misunderstand me, Mrs. Tamandl! [[Abg. Tamandl: You are for tax evasion, Mr Lugar!]] [[Abg. Tamandl: Don't you remember that?]] I am the first to say that when all pay their taxes, all pay less taxes. Only: They must also allow them to pay these taxes and not kill them. [[Abg. Wöginger: They've got them anyway!]] They're killing her! [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Stroll.]] [[Vice-Chancellor Mitterlehner: Now a Member of the Austrian Parliament is speaking in favour of tax evasion!]] No, listen to me, Mr. Vice-Chancellor. [[Abg. Tamandl: You're for tax evasion!]] [[Abg. Schönegger: What is this kind of thing?]] I'm telling you now what you should do – hear It's easy! –: Set You carry out this registration fee obligation for at least two years, and allow you to survive legally for those companies by massively reducing the additional wage costs – and then we introduce this registration fee obligation. [[Abg. Schieder: Then talk to the Stronach, so that it also pays taxes in Austria!]] There I am the first one to do so. But what you're doing now is: They produce unemployed. They produce businesses that go bankrupt. They produce businesses that will just stop. And that can't be good. I would also like to hear from you, Federal Chancellor. I know Mr Vice-Chancellor is more committed to this matter, but I would also like to hear something from you. Mr. Chancellor, you've been diving for weeks, maybe even months. I would really ask you to take the floor here today and tell us what you intend to do to finally resolve the state of reform in this Republic. The Minister of Finance is obviously not ready to do so, and he has said so in the Committee. He does not feel responsible for the fact that reforms are not being made in the other ministries. But maybe feel. You're in charge, Chancellor? Feel maybe As an Austrian Chancellor, are you responsible for finally providing for reforms in this country? That's why I'm calling for it. You're here today: Get up and tell us what reforms you are planning to finally put the budget in order! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] You'll probably say you're not responsible. But I expect you as chancellor to speak and answer here today and tell us when you finally get in the way and finally do what our budget will do in the long run. We expect this from a German chancellor and from you very specifically. So don't show up, just show up!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e9872	Mr Faymann spoke next time. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e9894	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr deputies, you see how fast it is. You just need to have made a statement. Were you in Ibiza, too, because you haven't seen me in the last few weeks? - Ah, you were there. [[Abg. Lugar: Does my skin look like this...?]] One of the few of your group who were there. [[Abg. Hagen: I've always been there!]] [[Abg. Kickl: For the Socialists only Mallorca goes!]] Mr President, I am convinced that small businesses, medium-sized enterprises, large businesses in this country, which work hard for this Republic, adhere to laws and pay taxes. And it's just right to make sure that those who pay taxes don't feel that they're part of a minority at some point. That is why we are fighting fraud to prove to those who adhere to laws that laws are worth something and that tax fraud is a matter of proficiency, namely for those who have paid their taxes properly in the past. [[Call to the FPÖ: They have long been a minority!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Now there is a discussion across Europe, which is: How can we boost growth? In the analysis, everyone agrees that a factor must be to relieve work and the cost of work. There is now, of course, a major objective here, in addition to the additional wage discussions, of investing and working conditions, of reducing taxes on workers and workers. This tax reform will mean a discharge for more than 90 percent of small and medium-sized earners in this country who earn less than €4500 gross. This is a concrete economic impetus! This is reform as we mean it! We want people to stay net more. That is what we have enforced, and that is what people will do from 1st century on. Feel January. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I would like to thank the Minister of Finance and his staff in the financial sector for the fact that every year – and this will always be paid very close attention by the European Commission and the public next year – what is presented to budget expectations, what is decided as a budget, then at the end of the day, when you face it, you will actually be held in an accurate sense that you have great respect. There are employees of high seriosity at the plant, who have proven that the structural zero deficit was achieved for the first time already in 2014 with minus 0.5 percent – two years earlier than planned. The structural zero deficit will also be achieved in 2015 and the structural zero deficit will also be achieved in 2016. – These are stable finances. This is different from what you are always trying to tell us that we have something to do with the question of stable finances. No, the employees who calculate budgets and submit them according to our political requirements are reliable employees. This has been proven and proven in recent years. At European level too, we always have such good arguments in the discussions because we can show that this structural zero deficit in Austria has already been achieved since 2014. Stable finances that can be seen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Now, due to these stable finances and these scopes – which are not always easy to work out and which are always a challenge for the Ministry of Finance – we have set very specific priorities for reform both in the employment package and in education. Growth impulses through broadband expansion, growth impulses through economic promotion, growth impulses, as we have decided in the government today, through promoted housing, as well as the expansion of school day care, childcare and structural resources for universities, from education/research, as well as very concrete investments in road/rail and in the said broadband expansion, demonstrate that we are investing where we need to improve the framework conditions. Through the past, we can demonstrate exactly how this was achieved by the forecasts, the expectations, and the structural zero deficit is proof that we have achieved this within the budgetary limits. Now, when we talk about the forecast, so we're talking about the forecast, then we see that an increase of 1.4 percent is set for 2016 in Austria. This growth of 1.4 percent in the forecast is, of course, more difficult to achieve compared to the average of the eurozone in a country such as Austria or Germany – Germany is always similar – because of the fact that the need for resurgence on the one hand and the high level of economy and on the other hand are naturally incomparable if you want to compare it within the euro area. Nevertheless, this increase – in 2014 0.4 percent, in 2015 0.7 percent, in the 2016 forecast – is evidence that we invest in this growth in Austria as part of our opportunities. Growth means increased revenue. Growth means better employment. Growth means safeguarding social institutions as we need them, and how we are proud to point out this – from childcare to old-age care, from hospitals to social measures – in Austria. And because we, ladies and gentlemen, are a country in which both in terms of employment, growth, investment and now in the field of education, the government has reached agreement to follow a path that builds on the strengths of Austria, we can present these figures to you. That in the European Union an increased growth rate would be achieved if we were to move more together in the euro area if we were to save on one side but invest in the other, Europe-wide purchasing power in the countries of the European Union, we know that. That would, of course, also help us. So: A European answer is an answer that would go beyond these figures and concrete objectives. Therefore, a European response is a right approach to enabling and increasing investment across Europe, increasing purchasing power in Europe, because we are an export country and are interested in the fact that the neighbours are also fine. That is why those who are always looking forward to a little bit of it, if we are to disconnect from neighbours, or even leave the European Union, or if we want to leave the euro zone, then those who would build these walls around Austria – in economic and social terms and even when it comes to human practices. We do not want to be a country of the walls, nor in economic policy. We don't want to isolate ourselves, on the contrary: In this European Union, we want to contribute to the creation of framework conditions across Europe that will also enable our products to be sold, to gain social satisfaction for democratic processes, to gain political satisfaction for a course that reads as follows: Let us prepare Austria and prepare Europe for the fact that politically difficult issues such as this economic crisis, the banking and financial crisis, difficult issues such as those of refugees, where humanity and order are to be created at the same time, which is as difficult as it is necessary to solve! Let us prepare this through political pre-life in our own country, where we have also employed a lot in the budget for refugees, which is necessary in the care; where we show on education issues, future issues that the approach includes schools all day and autonomy in decision-making on the ground, at the site. We are preparing Austria and Europe to implement together what we have set objectives, because many people in this Europe are observing, as is true in Austria, Germany, Sweden and the Netherlands, and it is evident that, of course, precisely those countries around the world have a high attractiveness, because they see and because they are talking about what social care is here, which political conditions are created here, which living conditions exist here, which high social standards we have, which economic strength we have. We are, of course, a magnet for those who ask themselves who in Europe is able to deal with this task particularly well even in difficult times. However, we are working to ensure that this magnet is one in the future and that we remain a model in Europe – for tax reduction, for investment, for employment packages and for school and science, for these are the strengths for the future of our country!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e9993	The next item is Mrs Tamandel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e10014	Madam President. Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, Today, we are negotiating, among other things, the Federal Proposal 2016 – a presentation of the Minister of Finance, which is, of course, characterised by the challenges we face today: on the one hand, the increased unemployment, which is a point that needs to be financed of course, but on the other hand, also the great flows of refugees, the many people who come to Austria, but also those who are going through with us; we also have to take care of them. I am glad about this – and I am convinced that the Minister of Finance is also happy about it – that the European Commission is going so far and saying that the additional costs for refugees are included in the budgets. I believe that this is a good approach, because otherwise we would not all, of course also Austria, achieve the conditions for debt reduction and also for the deficit, the structural deficit. We in Austria already reach this structural zero deficit for the third time – 2014, as can be seen in the federal accounts, which is under negotiation today, 2015 we will achieve it and 2016 as well. I would like to speak on two essential points. One is tax reform. She's been mentioned today. Mr Lugar, for my terms you have spoken about tax fraud today. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Lugar: Go, you stupid! You know better, Mrs. Tamandl! You're a little close to economy, too!]] I don't think it's all right for you to draw in all the small entrepreneurs and say that they can only survive if they don't pay their taxes properly. That's not all right, and it's not accepted by us either. I believe that this cannot be accepted by any taxpayer or taxpayer. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] The tax reform will, after all, relieve all taxpayers of an average cost of €1,000; even those who do not pay income tax will receive up to €400 per year of so-called negative tax – or social security reimbursement, as you would like to call it. The second point, which is also very important, is the reduction of the additional wage costs by means of an amendment. In this debate, which has already been discussed by Mrs Glavischnig today, I think, I would like to say that as regards the reduction in the additional cost of wages on the contribution of the service provider to the Family Allowance Fund: I insist that we reduce the additional wage costs, but in return, I also insist that we do not cut family benefits – there is no talk of that at all! One has to keep apart: How does the Family Allowance Fund feed?, and: What will be passed on to the families by the Family Allowance Fund? We confess to this: We increase the family allowance by 1. January 2016 again by €80 million, which is 1.9 percent. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kitzmüller.]] [[Abg. Kogler: How do you guarantee the benefits?]] That is an essential point. We are at the forefront in Europe in terms of family benefits, and I do not want a debate to develop that scares families, because we stand by the fact that we do the necessary for families – on the contrary, we have also raised the amount of child allowance from € 220 to €440 in tax reform, and our demand to expand this remains natural. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] However, the following must also be taken into account when financing the FLAF: It cannot be that FLAF is getting more and more tasks, such as schoolbook action, free schoolbook, free travel for children or, for example, pension contributions for child training periods. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kitzmüller.]] There's something we need to do. If parents tell me that they have to spend some extra money on individual school books, I have to say something goes wrong. We need to break our heads even more about what we can do, for example, in reforming the family compensation fund. [[Abg. Lugar: You have to do it right, Mrs. Colleague! You have to do it right!]] So shove. Please don't be afraid of the families! It is necessary to reduce the additional wage costs. We need jobs. And, Mr Lugar: Fraud and tax justice will secure the location and will certainly not cost all those who pay their taxes. They're just talking like the small businessmen didn't benefit from the tax reform. They are also subject to tax and will therefore benefit from it. We're on it. I would like to thank the Minister of Finance for the presentation. Mr Strolz was written in the main book: It is a sustainable budget that we are presenting. Perhaps you should be more involved in the subject matter of debate than you should get to the speaker's desk and always make everything ready.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e10111	The next item is the speech by Mr Kickl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e10132	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! I didn't want to drive out the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany now, but he's been looking for the space. I just wanted to give a replica on his jokes about Ibiza; he felt like making some kind of half-sense note. You know, I think a few days of vacation is more reasonable than the model he's been running for years, because this is a pension at work. This is the deep sleep at Ballhausplatz in the Chancellor's Office. That's your policy! [[Cheerfulness and applause at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kirchgatterer.]] Sometimes this is interrupted by one or another trip to Greece, the Chief Banker, and if that is nothing, then Mr Orbán is in Hungary, which is the second way to interrupt it. The third is that you have somehow joined Mrs. Merkel spiritually and have called there the Baumeister-Bob-Mentality to save Europe: Yeah, we can do it! These are the activities by which you interrupt your model pension at the workplace. Now I also understand the Romanian ex-president who said – I quote! – You are the clown of Europe, Federal Chancellor. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ex-President! Quote!]] If today the government bank is talking about this budget being a sustainable one, let's look at how long it is sustainable. Mr Lugar rightly referred to this, which is really a master's achievement: Do you know when it was the last time there was a real budget surplus in Austria? - That's where we need to hide back some time! [[Call the ÖVP: Cuddle!]] [[Abg. Lopatka: Come on!]] There we have to go back to the presidential era of Kennedy, where we will find it. These are the years before Mr Gusenbauer went into the sand box if you can't remember. These were the early childhood years of Mr. Gusenbauer, the Gusenbauer, who has now landed at the class enemy in the meantime and is making good money there like all the socialists – Mrs. Ederer et cetera – and apparently has found his true destiny. [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: Who was there Finance Minister? ÖVP Minister of Finance!]] [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: ÖVP Federal Chancellor, ÖVP Minister of Finance!]] So long has it been that you have written black numbers in this country! It's all been so long! This is the point – and since then only red numbers have been written in this country. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: Say a single reasonable sentence!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] And you're talking about a unique event due to any external circumstances! [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: ÖVP Federal Chancellor, ÖVP Minister of Finance!]] This has a method with you, and this budget 2016 sounds seamless in this negative series. The interesting thing is to look at the explanations on all these things, also 2016: You climb with the budget and with the explanations on why all of this is as it is, seamlessly into the footsteps of your predecessors unkind thoughtful. You're doing that! The explanations are always the same: This deficit, this debt policy, this burden-making and, at the same time, this galloping of expenditure, which serves all but completely, entirely purposeful and excellent purposes! Always the same announcements, always the same promises, always the same declarations of intent – for 55 years in the meantime –: Don't get upset, it's about investing in the future! - For 55 years, the same leader: Don't get upset, it's because of the security of the coming generations, because of the anchors!, where I sometimes wonder – and I mean that very, very serious! – when I look at your immigration and asylum policy, of which future generations on Austrian soil They are still talking – it seems that Austrians are less and less talking about them! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But it says: Don't get upset, it's only about getting a top position or regaining a top position! Don't get upset, the debts and everything we do, we'll just do that to invest so we can get something back on, then we'll get something back in, and then we'll pay back the debts with that! - For 55 years the same leader, only: You have always forgotten the second part of the Keynes model, which is to repay debts – you have remained guilty to this day! – and it didn’t matter if there was an economic crisis or a high level of economic activity: The model was always the same. And in 2016, join the whole thing again. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You do not need to wonder that no one in this country buys you these budgetary promises of salvation, this fairy tale from the filler horn in different variants. I find this adventurous when the ÖVP is making itself here and the achievements in family policy are the best. If I do this with inflation, then in reality a few cents per child and month remain. That's the popular party's family impulse! And probably because the people are so happy about it, a demonstration of the Catholic family association is taking place in the form of a house – because they are all so satisfied with the measures you are currently taking, and because all this is so sustainable to the people! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] Stop your promises of salvation! That's always the same thing: We have a re-indebtedness again, to a record debt on it! You only have the huge happiness that you are currently paying so little interest for these debts – and your luck is the bad luck of the savers, because that's exactly why the savers don't get anything for their savings accounts and why the money when it's on the bank is getting less and less worth it. I would not be particularly pleased about this development! Or: They have once again called for the biggest tax reform of all time, but there can be no real reduction in the tax and tax rate at all, and this is anti-local. There is no simplification in the tax system. And the interesting thing is that the loads will all remain, while the so-called discharges will be dissolved step by step in the course of the years. This is the famous blow of the cold progression. Mr Finanzminister, you should be careful if you are now telling anything about FLAF and about discharges to stop the cold progression that you want to tackle! This is the next uncovered check you will issue – by the way, at the expense of the coming generations! - Yes, yes, yes! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Interference of Vice-Chancellor Mitterlehner.]] Once again, the bureaucracy was introduced in this country. My God, what is this administrative reform, structural reform?- Oh, my God! They are available in the form of working circles and papers, but the bureaucracy is real outside! There are the double-tracks, the multi-tracks in cemented. What you call a reform, the President of the Court of Auditors took you apart and plucked apart a few days ago on the example of education reform, and he has not yet addressed the absurdities of content, but that was just a look at the structure that showed how negligent and irresponsible you are in these areas. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] So stop presenting this budget 2016 as a big throw! I am already wondering – and this is also an essential point, which, apart from the speech of Klubobmann Lopatka, has been somewhat too short – and many Austrians are asking themselves this out of concern – and I am telling you that every day, as is the case in times when a whole country is being directly or indirectly affected, everyone in any form, of this new international migration – and nothing else is what we have to do with it; so much so you can't paint the whole in the media at all, even if it is controlled – as you are concerned in such a situation, as you are talking about in times when this additional problem is still going on on in certain social spheres – I only mention the problem of Islamist terror, I only call the problem that will exist in the labour market, 500 000 unemployed, which is already the case today; this is not a startling, but that is left out of the socialist policy of full employment – as we are told by the other experts in those countries and the United Nations: No, no, dear friends, not the mayor of Vienna is right, who declared Austria to be a jause station on the way through to Germany, but there are more and more staying here and the great crowd, especially from Africa, will start at all! – I am already very black when I think of the millions who will still be moving in the north – as can be used in such times to set up a future budget if there is not even a spark of cost-truth in this area! [[Abg. Kogler: Hey!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Interference of Vice-Chancellor Mitterlehner.]] This is the incredible process: Fogs and glares! This cannot be apologies for you to make a blind flight in other areas, as in a fog bank, for example when it comes to your revenue budgeting from the so-called fraud fight. It's a blind flight to the fog bank! And it can't be an excuse to say. Well, it doesn't matter anyway, because we have so far also been guilty of proving that immigration is a business for Austria as a whole! – You always claim that to be dogmatic, but you have never predicted it to us before. All of this can't be an excuse. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Vice chancellor Mitterlehner: But that's not what it is!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is all a zigzag course, all of which is a equation made up of loud unknowns. It's safe with you only one thing: The message: Inspected, hollera and hopsa!, best with an all-inclusive humanity, remains upright! This is concrete, we have! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is also concrete that fences are something whole, quite terrible. fences are something quite terrible, that's quasifascist – that's also concrete. That was, as it were, the result of what you have sent to Mr Orbán about a newspaper. It is of course also clear that Islam belongs not only to Germany and Europe, but of course also to Austria. Believe me, this will be heard outside the world! So you don't need to wonder if one or the other is going to get on your socks to go where he belongs according to your information. Don't wonder about the events! I wonder how one can be surprised by things that one can inflame itself. – This is also a political art. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] But when it comes to the numbers in this context, there is this fog bank, then there's a number confusion that's adventurous. Just a few stations: Once you talk of 600 million who cost it a year. Then there are 1.2 billion – that was Professor Felder. Then the Minister of Finance screams: Too much, it's only 1 billion! Then he comes to it, perhaps the 1 billion is only the beginning, because not all are so qualified, so we will need more. Then there is a secret paper that speaks of about 3 billion a year. – What is that for a financial policy that does not even know what numbers it is supposed to operate on in such an essential component? That's really adventurous! [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Steinbichler.]] Outwards, you give the impression that all of this costs nothing at all. That's about what you're proposing to the population. [[Interference of Federal Minister Schelling.]] - Yes, you! You, Minister of Finance, exactly! They sit down, knock on the chest and say: That's great, don't stir up, we can do something about the European Union anyway, and maybe we'll get something back! [[New interim remark by Federal Minister Schelling.]] Now I ask you: Are we still net payers, or are we not more net payers? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Do we figure out more than we get, or is that not the case? And how many other states? So stop these mogel packs! That's a shame! If you don't move on, then the rule of the Austrian National Bank goes out. It's a special institution. This is the establishment for the award of goodness seals to institutions with misunderstandings. That's what we've seen at the hypo, and now it's working with your whole migration story. They're out now and they said: Pleased to see, Austrians and Austrians, that so many refugees are coming, this is an economic impulse! – I am just waiting for the Governor of the National Bank to write a letter to the IS and thank him for selling people as we are always told! – That would be missing right now. [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Keck: That's deep...!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, there are everything else... [[Interference of Federal Minister Schelling.]] – You don’t need to be proud of your budget! [[Call the SPÖ: An incredible speech!]] [[Vice chancellor Mitterlehner: That's way too much what you're giving it! That’s what I’m telling you! Any resistance lost, really! Every stand!]] – I would advise you: You can sign up for a word if it suits you. You know, I'm talking about what the people think out there, too. It's more important to me than to feel comfortable behind me. [[Accompaniment with the FPÖ and the Abg. Lintl.]] [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: This is full of next door!]] I come to the conclusion: Ladies and gentlemen! The Minister of Finance, in his budget speech, said that he could compare himself with a football trainer who, with his budget strategy, would then be responsible for moving into the Champions League. I brought a picture that's more appropriate: Placewart, I would say, Minister of Finance, placewart on the red-black promoter playground. [[Interference of Federal Minister Schelling.]] That would be the correct description.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e10510	Before I give the floor to Mr Katzian, I would like to remind you, Mr Kickl, that we have the following principle here in the House: Quotes can, of course, be used, but then, if one wants to use a quote to avoid a call for order, because one would damage the dignity of the House, it is to be removed. I would like to remind you of this principle, which we have agreed on, which is to be done in the case of quotations. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: The Romanian ex-President is an evil man!]] I call Mr Katzian. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e10547	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! I think that was once again a typical speech by Mr Kickl Stakkato-like, as we have heard it, quite offensively in the distribution, speckled with very many whiting side issues. [[Call the FPÖ:Superb!]] [[Congratulations and Bravorufe at the FPÖ]] And the usual xenophobic side lifts were not to be missed either. Humanity and propriety – absolute misrepresentation! – This does not even make it possible, if you want to, to deal objectively, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would now like to refer to the budget and also to the budget accompanying legislation we are discussing here today. It is indeed true that the labour market faces very, very big challenges: on the one hand, because of the high unemployment, which is still high despite record employment, and on the other hand, because of the moderate economic growth which is forecast or which we have to expect. It therefore needs more resources to support and support the unemployed people in Austria. In particular, we are faced with the fact that older workers have major labour market problems. We must increase the employment rate in this area, because if we want to raise the actual retirement age without ensuring that there is work for older workers, that will not work. But of course it is also about integrating those people who have fled war and persecution and who have received asylum from us. All of these are major challenges that we have to face, and I am very glad that important measures and activities have been decided in the context of the labour market summit, which will have a positive effect on the impact of tax reform and on wage statements on the inflation rate. There will be more resources for active labour market policies, there will be entry into the bonus malus system, and important measures have also been sent to travel in connection with labour law. I would like to thank the Council of Ministers for having decided today. - All these are things that are important. I am also very pleased that the all-in treaties are finally going on. In the future, the basic wage must be indicated in the All-In Treaty. For the first time, people will see what they get, so to speak, for a 40-hour week or for a 38,5-hour week of basic wage or salary and for how little they have to be available in standby mode around the clock. This will be the beginning of the end of the all-in contracts. Together with other measures, e.g. in the field of competition clauses or by the fact that part-time workers in the company also have to be offered full-time jobs, these are important measures where I would like to say that I am very happy that they have been sent on the journey. Because there were a few voices where one thought that this should now be discussed long and wide, until one can implement it, I would like to say: I expect this to be implemented as quickly as other things that have been agreed together, and that means to me that this has to be done in the December session of the Assembly. A delay or a heart tactic cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e10593	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Rossmann. [[Abg. Kogler: Finally something done again!]] [[Call the ÖVP:The next Green Observer!]] Please, honourable Member, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e10635	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Whoever is looking at the balance, as Mrs Tamandel and Mr Krainer are doing, of course, has to pursue a lack of budgetary policy. This “balance-fetishism” can only lead to a missed budgetary policy, because it is crucial: What is the structure of revenue and what happens to expenditure in the budget? – Not the balance decides, but the composition of revenue and the use for which: That is the decisive! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Let us now take a look at what is the decisive measure in this budget: tax relief! The tax relief was certainly excessive – as the Court's income report also shows – because the lower 25 percent of the income recipients have had to accept a loss of value of 20 percent of their income and the lower 10 percent have a loss of 35 percent. Let us now look at what they get on the opposite side by this tax relief! The lowest 10 percent get just 1.4 percent of the total volume of the discharge, the lower 25 percent 10 percent, and the richest 10 percent in this country, as measured by income, get 22 percent. And this is supposed to be a socially just tax relief?- Oh, my God! – No, they don’t mind, even if SPÖ and ÖVP are always trying to get us to do that again and again! If the Chancellor of the Federal Republic has spoken about the fact that middle-earners earn €4500, I have to say: He's so wrong! [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: He didn't say that!]] The average income is 1 900 € and not 4 500 €, for women even below! – You really have to take note of this, and then you cannot come to such findings as regards the discharge made by the tax reform. I really find this to be an exasperating thing! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: “Towards” – that’s a difference!]] This is especially disturbing because it affects very, very many women; it is also an exasperating reason for the continued opening of income shears; it is also an exasperating reason, because extremely much money is spent, where low growth and employment effects are expected. The Austrian Economic Research Institute says: If counter-financing is effective – which is questionable – next year we will have a growth effect of 0.0 percent and an employment effect of 4,000 to 6 000. [[Abg. Kogler: Right!]] With €5 billion you can make much more for employment – if you relieve lower incomes better and more heavily and use some of these funds for investment, for example in the ecological re-management of the economy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But that didn't happen. All this has been missed – just as the government has missed introducing an inheritance tax. Millions of heirs, billions of heirs continue to “walk” without inheritance tax. [[New condolences with the greens.]] Imagine: The ten richest Austrians, who would easily find their place here in the first row, have a wealth that is higher than the volume of the annual budget to be decided on Thursday. – That’s really a scandal! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Let's take a look further: What about the taxation of large corporations à la Google, Amazon, Starbucks and the like? What's going on? – Expenses policy, Minister of Finance! I repeat: Disbursement policy! The big ones judge it, the little ones have to pay. The same applies, moreover, to the bank package, the payments for the hypo scandal. The latest figures from EUROSTAT show that we have already spent €11.6 billion in this disaster in the banking sector. And the end of the flag rod is still not reached. But what for these reasons do we have no money for? - We don't have any money for the schools. Not only are the €350 million missing, but the costs for the increase in salary and for the programmes are also included. There is far more than €500 million missing next year. We also have too little money for the universities. And we have too little money for the poorest in this world – keywords: EZA, World Food Programme. But we also - and this is a cardinal problem in this country - have far too little money for the relief of the unemployed. Unemployment is a problem that needs to be addressed urgently. And there is not enough employment summits of the way they take place with us, because what you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, have climbed, according to this programme, was at best a mole. An employment summit worthy of this name was not. Let me now turn to one of the measures taken by this employment chapter, which is to reduce additional labour costs. I would now like to make an amendment to that effect and justify it accordingly. [[Quoted print version removed]] That is to say, we want to reverse this form of additional wage relief. This does not mean, however, that we are at an additional cost. On the contrary: We want her! Only: We want to make them different. In the spring, we presented a concept of how we can do this, namely through an eco-social tax reform. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If Mr Lopatka now turns out here and says that there are no cuts in family load compensation as a result of this looting of € 920 million, I can only resist this: There is no security for this without counter-financing! If you say, Mr Lopatka, the debt will slow down, that means that the deficit of the budget will rise. So they deliberately take up an increase in the budget deficit, although we will have no room for manoeuvre even in the years 2017 and 2018. So: There is no certainty that there are no cuts in family benefits! On the contrary: The pressure towards cuts in family benefits will increase by this measure! As I said, We from the Greens want a wage-additional reduction – but not so, but different! Finally, let me come to an area in the budget accompanying law, which concerns all the Members of this House, all of whom we are sitting here. – With the art. 2 of the Budgetary Accompanying Act, the Government has presented to us a proposal that the forecast comparison of the preliminary performance of the operation, drawn up by the Court of Auditors, should be removed without replacement. I therefore say'replaceless' because, although there is a report that the Ministry of Finance must present to this House, this report does not have the quality of the Court of Auditors' estimate comparison. Therefore, if we decide on the federal financial framework in spring, we need a basis comparable to the quality that creates transparency, which provides information on which we can be based through the Federal Financial Framework Act. Because we need that, I have tabled an amendment. This amendment is available in written form to you and I will now give a brief explanation of what needs to be changed with regard to this monthly report from the Ministry of Finance. Supplements must be made to the way in which the report is meaningful, on grounds and with quantifications. Changes in the economic environment need to be addressed. There must be an identification of the changes in the residue levels. And there must also be a description of the deviations from the current federal financial framework law. If you want more transparency and no less, I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen of all political groups, to agree to this amendment today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e10795	The amendment by the honourable Member, which has just been presented in his key points, Mag. Rossmann, ladies and gentlemen, has already been presented in writing, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The amendment tabled earlier by the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Schwentner, ladies and gentlemen, is sufficiently supported and involved in the negotiations. In addition, the request for a national vote was requested. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] Amendment (return see p. 83) by Mr Bruno Rossmann, friends and friends, on the report of the Committee on Budgets on the Government Template (821b.b.) The Federal Act, with which the Federal Budget Act 2013, the Federal Liability Law, the Corporate Service Portal Act, the Competition Act, the Voluntary Law, the Family Tax Compensation Act 1967, the Unemployment Insurance Act 1977, the Beitsmarktpolitik-Finanzungsgesetz, the Allgemeine Sozialversicherungsgesetz, the Farm Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act, the Civilian Health and Accident Insurance Act, the Federal Museum Act 2002, the Health and Food Safety Act, the Food Safety and Consumer Protection Act, the Catastrophes Fund Act 1996 and the Drugs Act, and a federal law on the granting of a federal grant to the federal state of Salzburg on the occasion of its 200-year membership with Austria (Budgetbehördgesetz 2016) (882 d.B.) Request The National Council wants to decide: The Government template relating to a federal law, with which the Federal Budget Act 2013, the Federal Liability Law, the Corporate Service Portal Act, the Competition Act, the Voluntary Law, the Family Tax Compensation Act 1967, the Unemployment Insurance Act 1977, the Labour Market Policy Finance Act, the General Social Insurance Act, the Farm Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act, the Civil Health and Accident Insurance Act, the Federal Museum Act 2002, the Health and Food Safety Act, the Food Safety and Consumer Protection Act, the Catastrophes Fund Act 1996 and the Addiction Act, and a Federal Law on the Grants Law on the Grant to the Federal Land of Salzburg on the occasion of the 200-year membership of Austria (Budget accompany Act 2016) in the version of the report of the Budget Committee (882 d.B.) is amended as follows: 1. In Art. 2 the following point 5a is inserted: 5a. § 47 para. 2 reads: ‘(2) The Federal Minister for Finance or the Federal Minister for Finance has the National Council annually until 31. In the light of the above, it should be noted that the financial year before the financial year before the end of the financial year is the result and the financial estimate of the statement of results and financing in the breakdown of the Federal estimates. In addition, it must include: 1. meaningful explanations per breakdown on deviations from the estimates in the statement of results and financing. In particular, the reasons for the derogation should be identified and quantified, with reference to any changes in the economic and other framework conditions. 2. an identification of the changes in the amount of reserves per breakdown 3. a description of the deviations from the values of the current Federal Financial Framework Act.’ 2. In Art. 2 the following point 5b is inserted: 5b. According to § 47 para. The following paragraph 2 shall be added: 2a and 2b added ‘(2a) At the same time, at the end of the previous financial year, an aggregated report shall be made on: 1. the financial year before, the amounts of the loans, the suspensions and the cessations of the recovery of claims made by the Federal Republic of Germany; and 2. Status and changes in the reserves of the detailed budgets (§ 55, 56) as well as the status and modification of the revaluation reserves (§ 91 para. 7). (2b) The budgetary bodies shall provide the Federal Minister for Finance or the Federal Minister for Finance with the necessary documentation and information in good time to the Federal Minister for Finance and the Federal Minister for Finance, with the procedure to be followed by a directive by the Federal Minister for Finance or the Federal Minister for Finance.’ Reasons By the in Art. 2 of the 2016 Budgetary Accompanying Act to delete the preparation of the forecast comparison account as at 30. In April 2013 the Court of Auditors (§ 118 BHG) lost important, meaningful documents on the budget implementation of the previous financial year. This “management tool” is for the assessment of the Federal Financial Framework Act, which is not later than 30 years old. It is of great importance to submit to the National Council on April. The report of the Minister of Finance on the provisional performance of the conduct in accordance with § 47(2) of the BHG 2013 does not reflect the Court's ability and quality of the forecast comparison. A supplement to § 47(2) BHG 2013 is therefore necessary in order for the National Council to have the necessary information to be able to take budgetary decisions with far-reaching consequences in the respective Federal Financial Framework Act. An improvement in the report on provisional performance requires strong explanations. It is therefore necessary to present and justify, in quantitative terms, any significant deviations from the estimates of the financial statement or the federal financial framework. In the case of the public charges of the UG 16, the presentation shall at least be carried out at the level of the detailed budgets. In particular, derogations from income and wealth taxes, as well as significant taxes on consumption and transport, should be presented and justified. Derogations due to changes in economic and other framework conditions shall be presented in the reasoning for all subdivisions. In the sense of result-oriented budgeting, the report should also show the extent to which significant measures and programmes have been implemented for the year under review.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e10944	Next speaker: Mr Wöginger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e10966	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister Schelling has presented a good budget in a difficult time – a budget that is sustainable and future-looking! We answer that from the ÖVP with a clear yes. I'll tell you why. First: The debt ratio decreases by 1 percent. And second: For the third time in a row, we have a structural zero deficit. The debt ratio would fall more strongly if we didn't have the hypo to deal with. And before Mr Kickl appears here as a Morala Apostle, he should rather think about who is responsible for this disaster in Carinthia, and remember that one who was involved in all the decisions is still sitting in the second Chamber of this House, namely Mr. Landeshuptmann, other than Dörfler. [[Abg. Strache: Martinz and Emperor!]] If you are already playing as a Morala Apostle here, you should at least make sure that the political leaders are also held responsible. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] With this budget, we also invest in research and education, in infrastructure in terms of broadband, and, of course, in security. And the tax reform, ladies and gentlemen, brings a discharge of over €5 billion. Some 6 million people in Austria will benefit from this, and they will have more money in the stock exchange, which will increase purchasing power and boost economic growth. If you earn gross €2 500, ladies and gentlemen, then this is certainly an average earnings in Austria, and because of this tax reform you have about €1,000 discharge per year, starting with the 1. January 2016. This must not be a small matter, which is an important relief for the citizens of this country. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] The economic and labour market summit is already shown in the budget: There are additional funds for active labour market policies of €350 million from 2017, 300 million for the coming year, and that means more 12 000 to 16 000 jobs. The bonus malus system, an important measure especially for older workers, is also being implemented with this package. Now a word to reduce additional wage costs: Ladies and gentlemen, this is an important signal to the economy in this country! It benefits both the location and the safeguarding of jobs that the additional wage costs are reduced in several steps. Also a note on FLAF: I don't understand the hysteria that's being spread here. Then: We are dealing here with a reduction of 4.5 per cent to 3.9 per cent in the service sector, in steps, ladies and gentlemen. And family benefits are not shortened. [[Abg. Höbart: The Catholic family association is already at the door!]] If you want, I give a guarantee here, including for the Austrian People's Party: We do not reduce family benefits by reducing FLAF! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On the contrary: We raise the family allowance with 1. ==References== January 2018 each by 1.9 percent! In addition, we have added more than €300 million to the extension of the childcare facilities, and the tax reform will add €100 million to the families by doubling the amount of the child allowance. We raise family benefits at a high level, ladies and gentlemen, we do not shorten them. There will be no such thing as the ÖVP! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Lopatka: Very good!]] Today, the Labour Law Package has also happened to the Council of Ministers, where it concerns all-in contracts, competition clauses, reimbursement of training costs, about 12 hours at travel time – important signals and impulses for the location and for the labour market in Austria! These are the right answers in difficult times! We have a good budget here for decision-making – a budget that is future-oriented, which is an important signal for the future in this country and for the people of Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e11065	The next item is the report by Mr Hable. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e11088	Madam President. High house! Estimated members of the Federal Government! Citizens at the visitor gallery and in front of the screens at home! We have just heard it again, Mr Wöginger has also mentioned it: We obviously have the third structurally balanced budget in a row. Then the world is all right and then we could all go home. It's wonderful if it's actually that way. But the truth looks different. The structural deficit was once a good idea, namely the good idea of calculating the economic effects of the budget and looking at the structure of a budget, i.e. the core, whether it is good or whether you are in the red figures. And how do you achieve a balanced budget today, including in the 2016 budget? – Well, by using the first tolerance limit, by using the second tolerance limit, and by calculating the banks, first of all the Hypo Alpe-Adria, because it is just an unforeseen and unique event, as we hear. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] Well, if it's unforeseen, that's the big question. – The OeNB reports back to 2001 say something quite different: That wasn't unforeseen. And is this really a unique event? – Is it a unique event that we have been paying billions since 2008? What else has been figured out? – Refugee costs have been calculated. This too would have been unforeseen and a unique event. – Well, if you've been looking at the refugee camps in the Middle East for years, it wasn't quite that unforeseen. And who says this is a unique event? Who says this only concerns us this year and next year? Who says that doesn't affect us for the next ten years? [[Federal Minister Schelling:... the rate of increase...!]] But that's how you can imagine the truth, because the truth is another. The truth is that the budget is not balanced, the truth is that the funding budget alone, i.e. the cash register, where the money goes in and out, lacks €5 billion. This is also the number that is colported medially: We would have a deficit of €5 billion next year. But not even that is the truth, because the truth is found in the so-called earnings budget, where the real revenues and expenses are in it. This is the advantage of the new budgetary right since 2013: that, at least at federal level, we finally have transparency. And this transparency doesn't give a nice picture: This is not about 5 billion deficits, but about 9.8 billion. So next year we'll make just under €10 billion deficit. And then I wonder, if I hear the entire Apostles of extremity, or those who always say, the best thing you can do now is that the state simply boosts its state spending and spends even more billions and more billions on every problem, then I wonder where this policy of extremity is. Where is it when we spend 10 billion more € next year than we take, and again 10 billion more in the debt backpack? – The fact is, this is not an austerity policy. The fact is that this is a continuation of the well-known debt policy: a debt policy that we have seen for two generations, a debt policy in which our grandparents were the last to see a balanced budget. I wonder when that will happen again, which generation will finally see a balanced budget in the future. The big, crucial question is: Why is that so? Why is this so that year after year the state, the federal government, does not come out with revenue, year after year does not record revenue? – The answer is clear: because the expenditure is completely out of margin and band. If we had the German expenditure structure, Austria would spend €22 billion less each year. This is €11 000 less expenditure per family. That means we don't have a structural zero deficit here, we have a structural barrel without soil. – This is the 2016 budget! Why is that so? – Because there is a complete standstill in the reforms: a complete standstill in the case of essential reforms to be addressed. And it would only be important for this federal government to send a signal at least once, at least to reform, at least to demonstrate its willingness and to recognize that it has recognized the signs of the time, that it has recognised the need for reform and that it is willing to act. [[Abg. Wheelers:... tax reform...!]] Only a sign would be necessary once – but far and wide nothing can be seen. [[Abg. Wheelers: You've slept the tax reform!]] We know what would be necessary. We should finally address the truth, namely that the retirement age must go up with life expectancy, and implement it accordingly. We must shorten the funding that is sometimes good, but much more often client policy, and we must finally introduce federalism according to the Swiss model, where we achieve much more with much less money. This would be responsible – by the way you can read it in the NEOS tax reform programme – that would be necessary. There's a future in this, there's responsibility in it, and you have to assume this responsibility. [[Keeping a booklet in height with the title “less – simpler – generation-friendly”]] [[Abg. Matznetter: But this is very thin!]] The Federal Chancellor is not here right now, but I do not allow him to always wash out at the Minister of Finance. The Federal Chancellor is the head of the Federal Government, the Federal Chancellor bears the overall responsibility. Mr Bundeskanzler, I would like to present it to you in the absence of: If you don't want to assume this responsibility, if you don't want to bear this responsibility, give it up! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e11186	The next speaker was Mr Kirchgatter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e11207	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Dear guests at the gallery! My leading speaker has brought accusations against the Federal Government and also against the government groups – I can disarm them. The accounts of recent years are positive, the result was better than budgeted. This clearly shows that budgetary discipline is attributed, and this budgetary discipline will continue. Ladies and gentlemen! One of the first speakers to the budget was Klubobmann Strache. He pointed out that there were problems with the tax groups. – The opposite is the case: The tax reform reduces the tax groups from five to three, which benefits many Austrians. It would be very good if Mr Strache would really deal with this issue. [[Abg. New builder: We don't need you to do that!]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are also dealing with the budget accompanying law, and this budget accompanying law includes the novice for commemorative service. I would like to address this because it is very, very important for our Republic. This innovation brings substantial and fundamental improvements to the memorial service, which is of great importance to democracy policy and whose impact is highly appreciated, with a great deal of appreciation for scientific work, education work and education work. 70 years after the end of the Nazi regime, the witnesses of Nazi crimes are getting less and less. It is therefore all the more important that young Austrians work at the memorials and time-historic research institutions and inform them about the causes and consequences of the persecution and destruction policy. [[Abg. Neubauer: Who wrote the speech?]] Our demand to make commemorative service more known among apprentices is also implemented and, most importantly, facilitates access for women. Ladies and gentlemen, these essential points will be implemented in good time before the end of the 2015 commemorative year and – this is good for commemorative service, for commemorative staff – thus achieving substantial financial security with a relatively small budget commitment of € 280 000. [[Abg. Kitzmüller: What are you talking about?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Darmann.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Many benefit from today's budget 2016, especially the tax reform. Many Austrians benefit from this: It's the workers, it's the middle class, it's the self-employed, it's the pensioners. [[Abg. New builder: Do not take the word “pensionists” into the mouth at the budget!]] It will be invested, it will strengthen purchasing power. – It is a budget for the positive development of our Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e11290	Now comes Mrs. Ing. Dietrich speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e11311	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated government members! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Austria is in a very difficult situation, and there is nothing to talk about. We have more than 500 000 unemployed people, we have debts that are enormous that rise annually, and we have a migration of people to the extent that none of us could ever have imagined. [[Abg. Kogler: But yes!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Especially in this situation, we would have wished ourselves leadership qualities on the part of the Federal Government. [[Call at the FPÖ: Who?]] We would have wished that the Federal Government would give us security and stability, but unfortunately God was anything but this. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Unfortunately, we have the wrong government!]] Remember when the first refugees came: At that time, the problem was small, although, as we know afterwards, we knew about this issue for a year and even though we could have taken precautions for a long time. And, ladies and gentlemen, what you have delivered on the part of the government on fence, door with side parts or other parts, that was really pathetic! [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Kickl.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] If you say, Well, the costs we can pack anyway so that they won't be budget effective!, I will answer you that all of this will not help us, because we have to pay them anyway. And I would insist that these costs would actually be as high as they are, because the citizens, all of us here in Parliament, have a right to receive transparent, honest figures. Ladies and gentlemen, the issue of upper limit cannot be removed from the table. This is an issue that we need to deal with! If state captain Schützenhofer says we have reached the border, then we must take this statement seriously. If we want to preserve the social state, we must define a boundary of the feasibility, and I say to you: [[Congratulations with Team Stronach]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neubauer]] We have reached this border, and we do not need to discuss it anymore! Even if we all have compassion and say: The poor people have been expelled or many have been expelled – we know that some of them are economic refugees; I also want to discuss them seriously – yet we must be aware that we are importing an increased security risk. The Federal Government must not make a small statement on this issue either. This issue needs to be debated seriously, and provision must be made for this. IS-Terror has long reached Europe – not for nothing, we have an increased level of security in Vienna. Ladies and gentlemen, the situation is serious, and we demand leadership from the government! A matter that affects us all, everyone, that is economic policy, because only what is being achieved can the state re-issue, and we have an economic policy that is constantly lagging behind. Germany had twice as high an unemployment rate in 2005 as Austria, and today unemployment rates are lower because measures have just been taken to boost the economy. What did we do? – We have still bloated the bureaucracy and put all the energy into the administration of the unemployed instead of looking at jobs. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] If Wifo-chef Aigerer thinks this crisis is homemade, he's absolutely right. And not only to put it in the corner, that an opposition party is blaming everything: The former vice chancellor, Dr. Androsch, has also said quite clearly that if we continue this way, Austria is driving on the wall at 200 km/h. – I ask the representatives of the government parties: Do you really want that? - I'm telling you, we don't want to. We want an economic policy which creates jobs, but which also gives companies the air to breathe. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] That is, we want a simple tax system, and we refuse that entrepreneurs are constantly being criminalised. [[Call to the ÖVP: Who is “we”?]] On the topic of registers: I recently talked to a hairdresser who said she's now creating a register, but she pays twice as much to the company, because you don't know exactly which computer system will come. It now immediately concludes a contract that one can adapt the system to the needs in retrospect. . I tell you, this is a process by the Federal Government, which is absolutely not in order because it is insecure and because it creates above all increased costs for entrepreneurs. That's not what we want. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] A word on the social dimension Mr Krainer said that the system is omafit. [[Call the ÖVP:To Salzburg!]] – I tell you, the system is opafit: It is opafit at the pensions, because those grandpas who have privileges have directed it, and they will be able to take these privileges with them into the future. Unfortunately, the system is not unique, because the younger generations will not remain. You will have a low pension because the money for your own lobby, for your own network, for which privileges are spent. I tell you from this point of view, we from the Stronach team will do everything we can to eliminate privileges in the pension area because they are not timely and because they are extremely unfair. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Call the ÖVP:... Greece!]] In Greece one has been able to intervene very well in the high pensions, and no one can explain to me that this cannot be the same in Austria. – I tell you, we are committed to this and we will work towards a fair, sustainable, financial system.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e11453	Now, Mr. Federal Minister, Dr. Schelling, has spoken. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e11474	Mr President. Estimated government members! High house! Appreciate viewers in front of the screens and at the gallery! It is not necessary for me to repeat the statements of the budget speech here again, but at least some elements I would like to clarify again. First: After the budget is in front of the federal financial framework, i.e. the house is already working on the next stage in the federal financial framework. And if the question is asked here, where the additional costs are budgeted, I can tell you: In the Federal Financial Framework, which we will present to this House in spring. – I cannot budget, even if the criticism comes here, what there is in 2017 and 2018 in discharge, which is in the budget 2016 – and we are discussing the budget 2016 here. The second point is: I have made it clear in the budget speech, and I also recognise the need for further reform, otherwise it will not work. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And here I am completely d’accord, I fully agree that we need to increase the pace of reform here – I have made this clear and clear. As far as transparency and the figures are concerned, let me give you two examples: Mr Lugar, if you now claim that the tax reform would be through the 5.1 billion... [[Abg. Lugar talks to Abg. Kogler.]] [[Abg. Kogler: Sorry!]] – I start again: Mr Lugar, if you say that the tax reform is being financed by 5.1 billion new debts, I would recommend that you take a look at what is decided here in the House. In 2014, the Federal Financial Framework for 2016 planned a re-indebtedness of 4.8 billion; therefore, the tax reform is not due to the increase of €4.8 billion to € 5.1 billion. You should take note of this, because the tax reform is financed in a solid way. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lugar.]] They stand out here and claim that this is an exchange of debt and tax reform. This is simply not true because the tax reform includes counter-financing measures, which in the meantime were also recognised by the Commission. And another small example, because you recently made a press release, we would not have budgeted figures – I may briefly explain this to you: In your press release, you're talking about the KA financial – that's the former municipal credit, I suppose – you're talking about the ÖVAG. Then please look at the UG 46: Provisions for mining activities are set aside for KA's financial year 2016 to 2019, and an asset guarantee is also available for ÖVAG for 2016. But you say in public that we would not have presented this, and that is why I would ask you to: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lugar]] If you already demand transparency, please read the budget and tell the public what is really set! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, this budget, which is now presented and balanced, will require a strict budget implementation. This is a condition, and the Ministries are familiar with it. Everyone knows we have no room in this situation; I will present it again. If one now says about the tax reform, which implements the discharge of more than €5 billion, that it is not symmetrical in the lower incomes, then those like Mr Rossmann forget to point out what huge transfers are going on in lower incomes and that we are looking to relieve those who pay taxes – and this has succeeded in this tax reform; there have been measures, which we are very likely to invest in growth, also through the tax reform. Although there is still talk of no investment in housing, one should look at the BIG's housing programme and look at the fact that today's housing bank has been re-adopted, which also represents large investments. It is still being pointed out the problem of the HETA. – Yes, of course, the Heta, formerly Hypo Alpe-Adria, is a budgetary problem; that is not at all disputed by anyone. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kogler.]] But who does it matter to solve the problem? – But rather I and not the liberties in Carinthia, who are constantly voting against the solution of the HETA problem! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] This is the starting point we have; and I have inherited the problem, not created; we can discuss it. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] If Mr Hable makes statements on the structural deficit, I am deeply impressed because the structural budget deficit – I think I can say – does not understand anyone. I had a hot discussion yesterday in the framework of the Eurogroup in Brussels on the question: How do you actually calculate a structural deficit, and is this characteristic the right figure? – We are committed to getting this clean, and I made it clear yesterday: The procedure for the structural deficit is in transparent, non-comprehensible and leads to inequalities in the Member States. [[Abg. Kogler: That's it!]] Let me draw up two examples: If a Member State makes 1.4% structural deficit and the Commission notes that it is nevertheless fully compliant under the Stability Pact, as it is so well called, that it fulfils all the conditions, and we make a significantly lower structural deficit and are put at risk if a country makes 2.4% structural deficit – not Maastricht, structural – and is considered to be largely in order, then different standards are set here. I would also like to pay attention to this when we have this debate on the structural deficit. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on Deputies Cap and Matznetter.]] They also know my comments; I have said that I am neither happy with the calculation nor even with the benchmark behind it. Your question has already appalled me quite a bit, Mr Lugar. I also understood that you think it is right that there can be business models that you can survive through non-deduction of taxes and social taxes. I also understood that it is not right to deal with fraud now. That is, I believe, the point on which we must agree here in the House. [[Abg. Lugar: It's about the possibility...!]] That is, as I think, a way that should not be taken, and I ask you to note in the future that I have a copyright on the statement that if all pay their taxes, all have to pay less taxes – that is why I am with you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But then we do something for us to achieve this, and we do not talk about why it is not possible! As regards questions which have also been raised, in the short term: The re-codification of income tax law is a task, and for the cold progression there is a model that is already under negotiation, so that we show here that we are gradually addressing the next issues. The reduction in additional labour costs has already been mentioned, but we are also addressing these issues. I don't actually understand that there are people who say 2018 or 2019 – you can discuss it – the current tax reform will have caught up with the cold progression, and at the same time say that the cold progression is a kind of fog bank. I believe that it is right for us to take this course, and I also think it is appropriate for things like the transparency database to be taken up. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, especially from the opposition, you have produced yourself here and said that the Minister of Finance should ensure that there is a harmonisation of budgetary law. . We have adopted this regulation and I will fight for the step-by-step step step on the issue of filling the transparency database. Last but not least, I would like to say a few words to Mr Kickl, who is absent when he believes that instead of the football coach, I should like to begin by expressing my thanks to the guards of this Republic, for they ensure that there is a good field of play, where good games take place, that the shoes and the Bavarians are clean, so that the footballers have a good time with them; therefore, a warm thanks to the camp. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] [[Congratulation with ÖVP and SPÖ as well as with MEPs from Greens and NEOS]] [[Abg. Brosz: This is the witness guard!]] But if – and I assume so – the forecasts of Mr. Kickl are going to bathe, then he is heading towards Badenwasch!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e11655	Mr Ottenschlager has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e11677	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I can start with – so that we can calm down and be a model – the 6. Class of the Gymnasium Billrothstraße from the 19th century. Welcome to the district. [[General condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in order to lead Austria, we need strict budgetary discipline – the Minister of Finance has said it – and our Minister of Finance is a guarantee that we are on the right track here. The budget 2016 to be decided and the tax reform already decided will bring some important impetus to our economy and will give us momentum in this direction. Thus, the planned discharges – a total of about €5 billion – will also benefit entrepreneurs or freelancers through the new income tax rates. In addition, additional wage costs will be significantly reduced in the next few years. These two measures together, for example, can mean a savings of more than € 7 000 per year for an entrepreneur with about 20 employees. – This is good for entrepreneurs in this country, for the location Austria and will ensure more employment, because, ladies and gentlemen, we entrepreneurs create jobs, not the state! We politicians are supposed to create the appropriate framework conditions here, and these will be better with this package. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter]] [[Abg. Stefan: That's why the register register!]] [[Abg. Moser: Why does the Minister of Finance say...?]] I would like to comment on a point which has not yet been raised. Mrs Moser, you too will be very interested in this. Today, we are also dealing with a federal law, the so-called pre-tax law with which the Minister of Transport – yes, it is a large package – is authorized to invest more than €14 billion by 2021, i.e. more than €2 billion a year in the railway infrastructure. [[Abg. Moser: It's a big package...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Moser.]] This expansion of the transport infrastructure is of and for generations, it is a long-term project, as you know, in the interests of our society, the environment and the economy, in order to offer an attractive alternative to the road. The largest projects are, for example, the Brenner base tunnel, the Koralm Railway, the Semmering Base Tunnel or the extension of the west line. [[Abg. Moser: How do you finance this?]] As we finance this, you know, with the principle of annuity. You can also question this critically, and I do, but, ladies and gentlemen, personally, it is preferable to invest in such infrastructure projects – and thus in the future – than, for example, to pump additional billions of money into the pension system with a strong trend. I am firmly convinced that we need a turnaround so that we can continue to get to the top, and I am very confident that the Minister of Finance will do this and make good reforms in this area as well. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Moser]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e11783	Now comes Mr Mag. Haider on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e11804	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Gentlemen on the government bank! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen taxpayers at home in front of the screens! But especially dear students of the HTL Villach, which I welcome very warmly! [[General condolences.]] First of all, two comments on Mr Bundeskanzler's speech: We still have a negative trade balance in Austria. Exports increased by 1.8 per cent in 2014 – compared with: in 2004 exports rose by 13.9 per cent – and this is also a consequence of your policy, ladies and gentlemen on the government bank! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Second comment: The economic location Austria is becoming increasingly unattractive against all the objections and conjugations of the Federal Government. Austria has fallen back over the past 11 years in terms of competitiveness, by 15 places – from 11th place to 26th place worldwide – and that is also a consequence of your government policy! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The budget presented can be easily defined: It will continue to be rescinded as before, fundamental reforms will continue to be postponed, and sustainable budget re-establishment will take place far away. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lugar]] It is already significant: I am now, including the two members of the government, the 20. Speakers, and up to the €9.8 billion deficit from the earnings budget that Klubobmann Strache has addressed, and the €5 billion from the financing budget that Klubobmann Lugar has addressed, have not yet been mentioned at all in this budget – that is why I will do it now. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kirchgatter]] We have disbursements in the financing budget of €77 billion, which represent deposits of €72 billion – thus making a financing requirement of €5 billion. More interesting and, above all, more meaningful, if you look at the earnings budget, i.e., translated into the language of entrepreneurs, double accounting, the guild, the profit and loss account of this Republic, which also includes actual resource consumption, depreciation, provisions and the like. It then looks like revenues of €71.4 billion compared to expenditure of €81.2 billion – makes a deficit of €9.8 billion. These are the true numbers we have to deal with! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Unlike the Germans, the Swisss, the Swedishs, who can generate surpluses and thus reduce the debt mountain, we make 10 billion € loss. So that this doesn't sound so bad, one has invented the concept of the structural deficit. I do not even blame you, Minister of Finance, for this; You said it yourself: This is an EU-wide – how should I say? – Marotte, or you can also say a shame to cover up the real deficits. Then one only looks at the costs one can influence, and unforeseen or so-called one-off effects are calculated. One-time effects such as special costs for refugees or for completely unnecessary national pleite banks, colleague Wöginger, are then simply calculated, and then one already has a structural deficit of 0.5 percent; and since this is already so close to zero, it is said to be a zero deficit. [[Call the ÖVP:Ready time!]] – This way you can lie to your own pocket, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Financiary Minister, the entrepreneur who gets through with this argument in credit negotiations with his bank or in negotiations with your financial officials, please show me, which will be put back in the open very quickly. It won't work that he says: Yes, my God, I have not been able to know that my biggest customer is pleading and can no longer pay my bills, or that a flood – I come from a flood community – floods my business, and because there is no insurance in Austria, I could not include these costs, so it is not that bad anyway if I have debt now – and that's why I get a credit now! It won't work like this, but this is the way this federal government argues! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In this way, even from a structural zero deficit, there is no real zero deficit; this must be kept in mind over and over again. Mr Federal Minister, you were in Brussels now and have tried to sell the EU Commission this migration, this wave of migration as an unforeseen event. – Let me say one thing here: This storm of migrants, this migration of peoples was not unforeseen and was also massively fueled by the Federal Government by this totally irresponsible policy of open borders! [[Call the ÖVP:Hellse-her!]] You really don't need to wonder if you don't have everything in mind. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The additional cost of this policy is not a one-off burden on the budget. We must focus on enormous additional costs, including for the next few years. And I even dare to say that you – because you do not know how many international migrants came to us at all – do not know what costs there are for us. In any case, it will by no means remain with these billions of extra costs. So stay as a conclusion: As long as reforms are announced, but not implemented as long as a real zero deficit is announced, but not achieved as long as the government debt continues to rise, instead of falling, just as long as the location of Austria will continue to lose attractiveness, as long as the citizens will be moaning under the rising tax burden, each of our children will start to live with 35 000 € national debt backpack and so long Austria is not fit for the future! [[Abg. Rädler: Talk time!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e11931	Mr Matznetter has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e11952	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Federal Minister! High house! Mr Haider, I will not be allowed to consult you on the purchase of shares if you argue that extraordinary and unique changes in results in operating income should be included. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haider.]] [[Further call at the FPÖ:GuV New!]] But let's stick to the matter: This is perfectly consistent with the way in which the budgets of the opposition are dealt with here. I mean, when Mr Kickl speaks of the old “leigh”, of 55 years of missing budget policy, then he should once ask his own grandmother how the country looked out in 1945, which in these 55 years has become out of the country. [[Call the FPÖ:... 70 years!]] If this is the old “leaf, ” then you can only rightly say: Please continue to play, Minister of Finance! This country is one of the most flowering countries in the world and not an old “leaf” that can be ended – not even with borders around all the federal states! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Stefan:... 70 years ago!]] [[Further call at the FPÖ:70 years!]] You can continue with the unconventional calls, you have already got it ahead of us today: For ten years it has been claimed that the budget will not hold – but it holds, the budget! [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] The only question is how the poor unconcealers come to mean that they are not known, because the yellow bubble and red bubbunks, which are native to us, are already almost extinct on the Red List. [[new call to the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Smash-budget!]] I would prefer that the other uncertified screams would no longer be there, and the red and yellow bakes would more inhabit our biotopes. But let us come to the very point of this discharge. The Minister for Finance has already said clearly to Mr Lugar: This tax reform is fully financed. If, of course, Members like Klubobmann Lugar make up here as lawyers of the tax evasions, then the matter already looks problematic. He presents himself here as their lawyer. If he knows people who make black sales – report to the Minister of Finance! They are supposed to pay back once again, because it is not only due to the other taxpayers, but above all to the competitor. That's dirty competition in every industry! How does the host pay his taxes fully, and the neighbor makes a third or half black?- Oh, my God! This is not a market economy, it is unfair competition, and the government, in favour of entrepreneurs, does not work at the expense of entrepreneurs! [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] Not everyone like Frank Stronach can have their headquarters in Switzerland. [[Abg. Hagen: He didn't!]] – Then why did he report there? Is that perhaps the reason for the Stronach team? Is that a confession? [[Cheerfulness with the NEOS.]] The Federal Minister might have to look more closely at where he really has his food point. Canada and Austria may be more interested in getting more. Therefore: Such parties, which have been promoted here by such people, by billionaires, should refrain from criticising those measures where six million people suffer from sustainable tax relief from tax evasion. That is, I think, a good day for the majority of people, perhaps a worse one for some billionaires. This is true of some of the parties here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e12085	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e12117	Mr President! Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! Some of us – Mrs. Karl, Mrs. Jank, I too – were yesterday at an annual recurring event, the Austria’s Leading Companies Gala, an award for outstanding... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] - Who else was? Please show me! [[Abg. Wheelers: You were...!]] – With this You always want to get through with shame. I understand. This is always funny with colleagues Rädler. There you wonder how you can always call so bravely if you prove to understand so little about the matter. I find that admirable. [[Cheerfulness and applause among Greens, FPÖ, NEOS and Team Stronach.]] All right, he's trying. He is more courageous in this respect than some others. We don't blame him, because he doesn't come out of this series much. Now to this yesterday, very pleasant event in itself. Mr Strolz has long given up this exercise, always with something positive. But this whole event is actually positive. Whether the right key figures for company prices are always used there is another question. In any case, it is also pleasing that there are more and more female entrepreneurs, more and more award-winners; all very well. There you also come to talk with the entrepreneurship. It's funny. Some suder and lament there too, many not – you have defended the government as an opposition there or even there – and many see clearly: In principle, Austria is still very good in comparison with other countries. You have to say that sometime. This is sometimes very bizarre in this debate. [[Demonstrative applause by representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The question is, however, where one has to look at the possibilities that one has to look at in the context of the unfortunately very unshaped globalisation as a European economic area, than even smaller Austria, so that one can make right the next ten, twenty, three years – and not just manage what it has said today – so what one can do there. One thing is clear: You only need to look at the situation, not only in Austria – Europe is worse in itself – not just because of the unemployment rate. If one looked at what one could do or afford to solve so-called problems, even in the economic field – now I would have said soon: in the ecological field, right by the way, but in the order: economic and social conditions, yes, even ecological conditions; that would actually be the modern economic approach – then much more could go. We really have the problem that we are on the slow track and not on the overrun track. We've been better before. Unfortunately, I have to diagnose this, with all the wills for reform and all the joys of reform of the Minister of Finance; I would also like to maintain this praise. Sometimes I already have the impression in the personal conversations that you are not as funny as before, for which we have a lot of understanding. We will also identify those who spoil your joy. So I must again take on the role of opposition policy, as it does for Parliament. The first major approach is: Yes, there would be much to do, there would be more to invest, private – see last night – but also public. I don't understand this rumour of others at this point – I don't know what they have for an economic understanding – by the speakers of those opposition parties, certainly also by club people who just go here and find out, there are a few billion more debts – yes, eh! – new deficit, expenditure higher than revenue. That alone is not the question. The question is the other way round: What's going to be done with the money? What is the income structure? Grasser has done enough harm here, but I do not understand that more and more of this attitude and role are involved in addressing economic relations that do not even have anything to do with the first semester of the trade academy. There we have to talk somewhere else, but I think you can get a little more intelligent about the matter. How could that look? – First of all: Structure of revenue. Yes! The Minister of Finance has always said – that is why, I think, it is perhaps a bit more productive, from your point of view, trying to escape – that was not the big tax reform – that is always what we say – that was, to say, a collective reform, a revenue measure, there partly with discharge. Only: First of all, one could do much more with the relief volume – because I do not need to repeat colleagues Rossmann – and second: Yes, too, but when do we make the structural reform, which would be much more important? What is going on on on the revenue structure? Secondly, the structure of expenditure: If we compare this only with the Western economic countries, vulgo OECD statistics, then Austria in many areas is totally slanted away. That's something that's rehabilitated. Where's that? We could have much more tax relief – yes, even for self-employed! – to make more for the taxpayers if we trust in certain assets that are not taxed in Austria – some holy cow is constantly driven around and courted there. If this is so good, what happened, then why are 8 billion € or 10 billion € discharge so much worse than 5 billion €? Of course, it's only possible if you're funding it against it. This is easily possible in the asset-related area! If you look at what billions of money in Austria is tax-privileged, assets are parked around, then that is not to be seen. This is not only structural weakness, it is also unfair. However, it is above all employment-politically soft, because much more could go. And this so-called tax reform, which is not but a certain relief, is lacking; one could achieve more employment effects, for a number of reasons, if one makes it structurally correct. By the way: The same applies to the ecological component. There is a reduction on the expenditure page. When you put the economy and the environment under one hat, you reach much more – especially in such economies as Austria. That's not gonna happen. It is even shortened in the wrong place. In reality, it is like this: If we were to look at what would be possible, it would not be just a disappointment from the point of view of employment and employment, but a damage that is being done there. Unfortunately, one has to diagnose this – from a little bit of a economic perspective, for which I have advertised. On the reform question, it is always the same thing: The heads of state ate away every success. That's it. We are now trying to reach out in the national governments, but such a national conference is really a festival of reform blockers. That's still the way it is. There's been a run-down one day. We have it in the school sector, we have it in the health field, we have it in the funding area. A whore! We still don't know who's promoting where, but we keep writing each other the ads into the budget speeches. There we can do more quietly, just so that you can see that we are not only not blind on this eye, but want more, but also do not still enforce us. Such a national conference is really a fortress, but we are working on invading it. I would like to take one point: the fight against tax fraud. If we always talk about registers: I think that's right under the line, but it's done badly. Because this is always the subject, I don't want to hide, but in addition I look at the big contexts. I still find this unbearable, and it happens far too little, but it is not just an Austrian thing. When we hear the sounding names of Amazon, Starbucks, and what they all call: Do you know what – that must also be named – who will be persecuted for all organized crimes? – Lots of, much smaller Gauner troops! But this is a major tax crime with the assistance of European governments. Once upon a time, this organized crime belongs to the tax evasion. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Schellhorn.]] Once again, we do not need to talk about the banks; we have often done so, I leave it out today. You know what I have to say about this. In conclusion, the following is still due to cost benefits: You have already had these perverse terms in context with refugees, who are concerned with human life. - I can't let that happen. This is about other considerations. By the way, this itself is an economic advantage, because in the situation in which there is total under-use, every additional issue is in principle an economic one; in this respect, the central bank is right, but only in exceptional circumstances. In addition, you have to look at this differently. If we look at these World Food Programmes story again, where Austria has clearly failed and which has not been renovated to this day – completely intrusive in the surveys in the advisory budget committees – then this – Mr Pilz is working on it – is once upon. I find it unbearable how Austria behaved here. I think that the whole performance of Mr Kurz, which is a key part of this, is much more unbearable, if we stand up all the time, to announce everything possible, to gamble over unladen eggs, as does the Minister of the Interior, instead of really making a proper security policy. – Everything all the way down! These are the faces of hypocrisy in the Austrian Federal Government. [[Congratulation with greens and NEOS.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] - Yeah, that's it.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e12192	Mr Kogler, you know that the accusation of hypocrisy – whether against a minister or a colleague-college – is not appropriate here. I need to give you an order call. I ask you to be moderate in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e12219	Thank you, Mr President. I'll finish anyway. If our leaders were really any, this would also be dealt with differently. As Eva Glawischnig has said, in this whole matter, in which very few percent of our budgets are promille, in which it is very few per cent of the population and promille of people who come to Europe if one fails to solve this, then one is in itself soluble problems. That's the terrible thing you're doing here with others. That's not what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e12246	Next speaker: Mr Eßl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e12267	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We decide this week the budget for 2016. This is about how the money of taxpayers is used. The Minister of Finance has the task of dealing with the tax money of citizens. The Minister of Finance is also doing this and is pursuing important objectives, for example, to make Austria's economic location even more attractive. This means jobs for people in our country. I am therefore actually on one of the key issues included in this draft budget. This draft is strongly influenced by the tax reform that we decided a few months ago. 5 billion € will bring this tax reform to the taxpayer and the taxpayer and will relieve them. All of you, ladies and gentlemen, who pay taxes, will feel this discharge. Families benefit by doubling the child allowance to 440 €. Self-employed benefit from income tax reduction. Workers benefit from wage tax reduction. About 600 000 pensioners benefit from the tax credit of up to 110 €. A total of six million people benefit from this tax reform. And then this discharge will also boost the economy and increase economic performance by 0.5 percent. The ÖVP has also succeeded in preventing the taxation of property. Property is essential motivation for a performance-oriented society, and performance It's supposed to be a promotion. The ÖVP aims to promote and strengthen performance and ownership. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, further offensive measures are also planned. The reduction of additional labour costs by 0.6 percent will be decided by the Budgetary Accompanying Act, which will make businesses more competitive. This will create jobs again. One more thing: In contrast to the claims made by some, nothing is taken away from the families. On the contrary: The family allowance will be increased by 1.9 percent each in 2016 and again later in 2018. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Austria is a country where families have a high priority. The ÖVP will continue to strongly support families in the future. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kitzmüller.]] Minister of Finance, an ambitious budget! I expect broad approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e12334	Next speaker: Mr Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e12355	Mr President. Appreciate ministers and ministers! Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Mr Schelling, if I have understood you correctly, you have mentioned the intransparency of a structural zero deficit. So I wonder why you argue with it again and again, but that seems to be another story. [[Federal Minister Schelling:... in other European...!]] In your budget speech, which I have taken with me, you have spoken about bringing Austria back to the top. Under this title was obviously your budget speech. We all know that we want to get back to the top that we're coming back there. We probably have different opinions, but the big problem, I believe, is that you are simply driving in the wrong direction with terrifying certainty. If you are talking exactly about when and how you want to get to the top field, then we have to say goodbye immediately, because, as Matthias Strolz said, we have, with absolute certainty, taken a backstone, a brake; on the one hand, these are the countries, on the other hand, they are also the social partners who are always on the brake. I would like to quote here: International and national institutes criticize our “lack of effort to ensure pensions and reforms on the labour market and in the administration”. – This is from your 2015 budget speech, so a quote from you. [[Federal Minister Schelling: I know what...!]] I know you know. The question is: Then why have you never done it before? For 10 500 days, the ÖVP has been in the government and has not yet implemented it. What have you done in the meantime? – You have introduced a bonus-malus system and have not implemented the working time flexibility and year-by-year calculation agreed in the Government Agreement. In this respect, I must remind you: They are talking about flexibilization, but they are burdening entrepreneurs. In this respect, I should like to mention a quote: “The high tax and tax burden harms the location and hinders our competitiveness.” – Then I recall what has happened now, especially as regards my area as an entrepreneur and as far as many tourists are concerned. What you have done with this tax package alone to tourism makes your quote really unbelievable. I remember the higher amortization period. I remember the higher rate of VAT. This, if you want to turn it in the right direction, is actually close to an unbelievable policy. I think it's simply overdue to finally burden off and not to tax. If you say that Austria has an expenditure problem and not a revenue problem, I can nevertheless remind you that: What about the expenditure problem, if you don't get to grips with it, if you don't even get the transparency database under control? The transparency database obviously fails again in the refusal of the countries. Where does the trip go, how do you want to slow down your expenses if you don't even get that under control? I notice that every day. We notice every day the standstill we are in because we are in the grip of the mayors and the national leaders because you are in the grip of the mayors and national leaders. I want to close with a quote, although I still have a lot to talk about. They also said that “every day without reform is a lost day”. I think if we continue this way, we have lost a decade with this government and not just a day. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e12411	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Big. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e12432	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the government bank! Mr President of the Court of Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen. Dear listeners, dear listeners! In the next three days, we will discuss policy in figures. Our task is to create the framework conditions, to improve them, to preserve them. This budget is something special, because this budget includes €5 billion of tax relief, which boosts consumption, boosts growth, bringing an average of €1,000 to each taxpayer. With the budget accompanying law, we have for the first time decided for a considerable reduction in additional labour costs – a long-term call for the economy to be implemented. For example, we save around 200 € per year per employee. The Corporate Service Portal Act is also amended to facilitate self-employment. With these laws and many other regulations, such as the abandonment of the daily limit and so on, we create confidence in the framework and in the location, and this should boost investment. What I think is very interesting is that we are always talking about control here in the House. We are talking about control by now discussing the accounts available here, but hardly any previous speaker has referred to this reference. It is precisely in the year when the regulation on a uniform accounting system has been implemented by the federal, state and local authorities that we must address it more precisely. I would like to highlight a sub-division, the UG 14, here. In the field of national defence, the difference between the financial statement and the income bill is seen. While the financing bill has been drawn up according to the budget, there is a success instead of plus 30 million minus 229 million €. Although we sold something in this area and took something, we sold much more than we had proposed. We have therefore given too cheap the wealth we have had. In this report, which has been made extremely good, it is stated as a result of the examination that repairs have not been activated, that one does not see, but In the future, they will be available and how they can be exploited. Leasing expenses are not activated, but are continuously discontinued. It must be over for us to rely only on money flows! Ladies and gentlemen. For 40 years, an asset and income account has been negotiated, now it has been implemented. But we still need to learn to deal with these issues. I am grateful for the reports of the Ministry of Finance, for the Court of Auditors' reports, and I hope that in future we will not only look at how much money we have in the pocket, but also the wealth we have, how we deal with it and how we use it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e12480	Before I give the floor to Mrs Schenk, I am still aware that the amendment tabled by Mrs Rossmann, colleagues and colleagues to the budget accompanying law on the insertion of points 5a and 5b has been withdrawn. [[See page 63]] Next speaker: Mrs Schenk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e12520	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Mr President-in-Office of the Council! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning, I would like to refer to the statements made by two previous speakers from the ÖVP, who have indeed praised family policy and family benefits in this way – the Mrs Family Minister is here too – namely those of Mrs Wöginger and Mr Eßl, who meant: Family benefits are increased at a high level. What do you say, ladies and gentlemen, of the ÖVP, about the open letter written by seven organizations from the family sector in which they expressed their concerns, namely: Get your hands off the FLAF!Unknown term type: "%s".? What do you say to them? [[Abg. Wögerer: The same!]] Are those satisfied with your answer? - I don't think so! [[Congratulation of the Abg. Lugar.]] Maybe you can also send me or us your letter, which you answered. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] The fact is, the childcare allowance has been the same since it was introduced 13 years ago. The family allowance was “valued” for the first time after 14 years with 4 percent in the previous year. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Wheeler]] [[Demonstrative applause by representatives of the ÖVP.]] In comparison: The inflation rate in these 14 years was around 38 per cent, ladies and gentlemen. So you don't have to think about it, because it's not really a sensible family policy that brings something to families, because many families, as we know, live on the poverty line. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] In Austria, especially children and young people – 408,000 children and young people – are affected by poverty. Now to the budget which has already been debated in detail here today. The cornerstones have been mentioned many times. They say there is more money for refugees in Austria, there is more money for refugees on the spot. I also think on-the-spot financing is very important, which I have not heard in today's debate. How does it look with money, with more money for homeless people? I have a current report here, which says that the city of Vienna is looking with high pressure for winter quarters for homeless people. Many objects that could be used for this last winter were used for the refugees in autumn. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is a shame that in a country like Austria there are so many homeless people who do not know where to sleep, who have nothing to eat, and that this government unfortunately forgets the homeless! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Let us stick to the asylum crisis and the resulting financial burden. The Federal Minister expects 1 billion, which is also estimated. For Germany, the ifo Institute expects €21.1 billion in costs for refugees in 2015 when accepting 1.1 million applications. If one now deals with Austria analogously – in Austria one assumes from the adoption of 95 000 applications – the cost of € 1.82 billion, ladies and gentlemen, would mean. This is almost 1 billion more than the Minister of Finance in the budget for the resulting extra effort of the refugee crisis, which has estimated an asylum crisis. [[Interference of Federal Minister Schelling.]] And there's already the first question: Where is the money taken? The height can't be estimated. It has often been said today that the budget will hold, but under these conditions, which are very uncertain, I do not believe that the budget will be maintained. Another point is counter-financing, which has often been critically addressed. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Moser, too, pointed out that counter-financing is not a ‘gmahde Wiesn’, as is well said in Vienna. He is also seeking to eliminate inefficiencies, double-tracks, overlaps of competence. But not only Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Auditors Moser has raised concerns, but also the WIFO and the Fiscal Council. Another point I would like to address is the internal budget. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Moser, has also said critically in this context, saying that it is not sure how the budget will develop and whether it will hold. There's a lot of stuff going on in there. Of the planning sites that are to be made available or which are to come, one does not know when they are coming, it has long been spoken of. Now that the hat is burning, police officers are to be trained for border use from today to tomorrow in a fast-seated course. How this is supposed to work, that's what I'm excited about. A very important point is – and I would like to address this here and also to celebrate – what the police did there, namely overtime. The value of €8.8 million was spent overtime by police officers in the refugee crisis. In September and October, the overtime costs together, as said, amounted to € 8.8 million. In September it was 191 451 overtime, which means additional costs of € 4.5 million. And in October there were 175 660 overtimes, costing 4.3 million, ladies and gentlemen. From this point of view, I would also like to express my express thanks to all the police officers for their day-to-day work, which often takes place under very difficult conditions and with little reference to how they should carry out their duties, especially in the refugee field. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] It seems a bit cynical to me when it is forbidden for police officers to carry the weapon out of service. We know it's almost impossible to get a gun pass even for police officers. For an unspoiled citizen, what is not understood at all is not possible. In this respect, the Ministry of the Interior really needs to think something about it, because that's not how it can be. If police officers are reliable enough to carry the gun, why shouldn't they be outside at once? Our approach to this is a new one – I said this a few months ago –: With the police officers alone, the ID card to run a weapon must also be authorized out of service. The ID card must be sufficient to avoid the passport in this case. This would create more security, would cost nothing, and the police would also be valued accordingly. The Minister for Foreign Affairs is not quite as closed to this proposal as was the case once. That is gratifying, and I also hope that something will continue in this direction. We must have a liberal arms law and we must live it. The EU Commission's recent move to tighten arms laws and to ban semi-automatic weapons can only be described as a bad joke. On the one hand, there is more and more crime, the subjective security need of the population is not met, the people are afraid, there are robberys, there are house collapses, the figures in the statistics are rising – and what is proposed by the EU Commission? – The arms laws are to be tightened, the innocent citizens are to be disarmed and requited! Not with us, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e12614	Mr Singer is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e12636	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen! With the budget accompanying law, we implement a series of measures agreed by the government in the course of the labour market and economic summit. In this context, I would like to refer to the housing package, because from my point of view it is an important contribution to the recovery of the domestic economy. In his budget speech, our Minister of Finance has already outlined the housing programme in his broad outlines and pointed out the importance of the package for the economy – even today he has mentioned it again. What are the objectives of this housing package and what are the objectives of the programme? – Over the next five to seven years, about 30,000 rental and ownership apartments will be built for about 68 000 people. The total investment volume is €5.75 billion, with €5 billion for housing and €750 million for housing infrastructure related to housing. The core of this housing package is a loan from the European Investment Bank amounting to € 700 million, which is responsible for 80 percent federally. The financial resources can be used both for non-profit and for commercial housing. Ladies and gentlemen! In any case, winners are the tenants who benefit in the form of long-term leases. And it is also ensured that the funds will be used in addition to promoting the housing of the countries. This also ensures that the desired effect, i.e. an increase in housing performance, and the 30 000 additional housing units mentioned at the outset are created. What does that mean for the economy? – This economic package alone will increase gross domestic product by 0.4 percent. And I am particularly pleased that the labour market also benefits, with additional 20,000 full-time jobs. The housing package is for me a win-win situation: On the one hand, we strengthen the economy and on the other hand we increase the supply of housing. This is also a question for me: Living will only remain manageable if we can meet the increasing demand for housing with the corresponding offer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e12681	Now the President of the Court of Auditors has taken up the role of Dr. Moser to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e12702	Mr President. Dear Members of the Government! High house! One can only successfully shape the future if one looks at the past and learns from it. And the past is now in the form of the federal accounts for 2014. If you look at the figures and facts and at the same time the budget implementation of the year 2014, you can say positively that the net financial balance, that is, the comparison of payments and payouts, with minus 3,189 billion € has been better off than in 2013. We also had a positive current account balance. We had lower consumer prices, and there was also an increase in the number of self-employed workers. Although the structural deficit in 2014 was not balanced by minus 0.7 percent, it was better than expected in the October 2014 budget planning overview. When you look at these positive aspects, however, it also shows that there should be some action and that there is a need for action. On the one hand, it shows that real growth in Austria was lower in 2014 than in the euro area and was also lower than in the OECD countries on average. It can be seen that there has been an increase in the number of unemployed in 2014, ranging from 32 151 unemployed, thus increasing the unemployment rate from 7.6 percent to 8.4 percent. It turns out that total government debt increased by €16.54 billion in 2014 to €277.4 billion or 84.2 percent of GDP. It appears that the public deficit has increased from around €4 billion to €8,862 billion and that the net result has deteriorated to €9 billion. This means that the costs have been €9 billion higher than the revenues, which means that in 2014 there has also been a corresponding resource consumption. As a result, the federal government's negative net assets increased by €7.7 billion and at the end of 2014 amounted to €48.3 billion. These figures and facts show that there is a need for action. These figures and facts as well as the Court's audits show that taxpayers' money in many cases covers the needs of the structures, but does not sufficiently take account of the needs of citizens. In this direction, the European Commission is also going in its opinion on the Austrian Stability Programme, where the risk of a significant deviation from medium-term budgetary targets is seen for 2016. The European Council in its recommendation under the European Semester also points out that we need action, action towards structural reforms in the areas of health, care, pensions, the labour market and education. In this direction, the Federal Financial Framework for the years 2015 to 2019 also goes. We will spend around €5.7 billion in 2019, when it comes to the federal financial framework. However, 78 percent of these additional expenditures will be used for the increased pensions. This also indicates that measures are necessary in this respect. In addition, the new budget plan, which is now in place, as well as the Federal Financial Framework 2015 to 2019, shows that there are significant risks, on the one hand, the risk that the Federal Government's net contribution could be lower in 2016 than in 2013 and 2014 and is likely to be the case in 2015 – a risk that will continue in the following years, which will increase as the risks of the counter-financing of the tax reform are added. We also have the risk that auction revenues from the emission certificates will be lower than budgeted in 2016. I would like to point out that these emissions were budgeted at €211 million in 2014, the actual proceeds have amounted to €54 million. There is a risk that the budgeted surplus revenue from the fight against fraud and at the same time the registration of the register obligation in 2016 will not occur to this extent in the amount of € 1.9 billion. There is also a risk that counter-financing will not be budget-neutral. Considering the payment page, it can be seen that between 2015 and 2019 expenditure increases or payout increases are significantly lower than in the period 2010 to 2014. This shows some breakdowns, for example internals, where expenditure has increased by around 3.1 percent annually in the past and will increase by 0.8 percent in the future. Labour market: 4 percent increase annually in previous years, now – new – 2.8 percent, although unemployment will increase. Social protection, where care and the like are to be covered: In the past, we had an average annual increase of 6.3 percent, and in the future it will be 1.4 percent. Education: average increase in the years before, 3.3 percent, in the future 1.3 percent. Environment – this has also been mentioned in the debate –: In the past, expenditure has increased by around 1.6% annually, and in the future by 4.4 percent annually. For the Court of Auditors, therefore, this analysis does not understand how, in the case of lower increases in expenditure, in the case of planned additional disbursements, in dealing with the new challenges, such as refugee problems, a structurally balanced budget is actually achieved if one does not implement the structural reforms, one does not want to save citizens. The Federal Government's budget path is extremely positive if one assumes that a structurally balanced budget will actually occur from 2014 onwards, but the present stability programme cannot be taken out of a comprehensible overall approach to achieving it. In conclusion, it should be noted that the budget development of 2014, the now present Federal Finance Act 2016 and the Federal Financial Framework 2015 to 2019, as well as the opinions of the European Commission, the Council or the Fiscal Council, will bring us to the conclusion that structural reforms are absolutely necessary to ensure financial sustainability. In this context, I would just like to point out that the Court of Auditors has the constitutional task of pointing out, as it is today, the real financial situation, even if there is a risk of financial sustainability being affected, and, of course, as in the past, as a partner with its expertise, in order to finally tackle the long-standing reforms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e12798	Mr Dr. Fuchs has now been reported on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e12819	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! Mr President-in-Office of the Council. High house! Values Advisors! The government programme has identified tax relief and tax simplification as one of the objectives. – Both have failed this federal government! Since a significant part of the discharge volume of the tax reform is refinanced via revenue-side measures, the tax and tax ratio is reduced by only 0.4 percentage points to 42.9 percent. That's a negative record! As a negative example of how the Minister of Finance simplifies our tax system, the crazy regulation serves as a register obligation to criminalise and plant our entrepreneurs. [[Federal Minister Schelling: An old leader!]] [[Abg. Wheeler: Go! Who?]] - Watch out! [[Abg. Wheeler: Who? Don't just put it in the room! Who?]] I'm not done with my speech yet, my colleague. As is known, the introduction of the registration bank obligation was made by the Tax Reform Act 2015/2016, by means of two regulations, one of which was still not published in the Federal Law, and because neither the legislative text nor the two regulations regulate the registration of the register obligation in such a way that the entrepreneurs recognize themselves, the Minister of Finance has on the 12th. ==References====External links== [[Abg. Stefan: That's incredible!]] Very business-friendly, Mr. Rädler! [[Abg. Stefan: (in the direction of Abg. Rädler) Mr. Rädler, what is now? Do you know yourself?]] This flood of standards by Mr Finanzminister on the obligation to register is a legal disaster. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I am not concerned today with criticizing the registration obligation in itself, but with the way in which the registration bank obligation is implemented, Mr colleague. ==References====External links== In October 2015, Mr Finanzminister said – I quote – that: “We need to... check laws and regulations with a commitment to their impact in practice and see if the effort is in any way beneficial in relation.” – And one month after this budget speech, do we have two regulations and a 67-page decree on the registration of the register?- Oh, my God! What, Mr Finanzminister, is the difference between cash revenue, cash transactions, cash receipts, cash payments and cash turnover? [[Federal Minister Schelling: For a tax advisor...!]] Cash receipts, cash transactions, cash receipts, cash deposits and cash transactions – the registry deposit of the Minister of Finance gives an answer. These are five different terms which are defined in the adoption of the Minister for Finance. There again is the form of office of the Minister of Finance. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is not an administrative simplification, Mr Finanzminister, but a legal Murks and a confusion of concept, where no one knows each other. [[New welcome to the FPÖ.]] As the Minister of Finance has apparently recognized for himself that no one is aware of the need to register, there is also a criminal amnesty for the first half of 2016 in the decree under point 7.5. I quote: ‘In the transitional phase, no financial penalties and penalties shall be imposed by the tax authorities and their institutions in the event of mere non-compliance with the accounting and investor sharing obligation.’ Mr Financiary Minister, the entrepreneurs will be grateful for this financial penalty exemption, but I can give you and your legal authority the following way: A minister of finance also has to stick to the level-building of the legal order and a minister of finance cannot put an end to criminal law, which we have decided here! – You too have to comply with laws, Mr. Finanzminister! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Federal Minister Schelling: What do you want? That we'll be fined?]] [[Federal Minister Schelling: After what do you want? That we're going to punish or what?]] That you comply with the laws and do not turn back a law by passing a decree. [[Abg. Haider: If you make g’scheite regulations, then we do not need laws...!]] Another negative example from the law of the Minister of Finance concerns the tax-free refund on capital companies, which was made de facto impossible by the Tax Reform Act 2015/2016. The fact that this regulation is anti-economic and non-sense, I have already held the House of Commons in this House. Meanwhile, the Ministry of Finance also seems to have recognized the economic hostility and the insanity of this scheme. Following a ministerial draft of the 2015 tax-amending law, which we are likely to discuss here in December 2015, this absurd new regulation is almost to be abolished only a few months after its entry into force. This procedure does not create any confidence in the law of the Minister of Finance. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The economy needs legal certainty, but no laws with a half-life of a few months. Mr Finanzminister, say goodbye to the nonsense of the norms produced by your ministry! Tax relief and tax simplification shall not be lip recognition. Your task would be to make tax law simpler and fairer. Unfortunately, You're just the opposite. The abolition of cold progression would be a good start for a fairer tax system.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e12997	A second time Mrs Tamandl has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e13018	Thank you for the welcome, ladies and gentlemen. [[with regard to the not yet clumsy appeal to the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: You got it wrong!]] Mr President. Mr. Minister of Finance! Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen! I am tabling an amendment to the 2016 Budgetary Accompanying Act. [[Quoted print version removed]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment is therefore necessary because in future – with the 2016 budget accompanying law, we will decide today – in connection with the removal or preparation of the forecast comparison bill as at 30. The Court of Auditors' report on provisional conduct in accordance with Article 47(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 2 of the Federal Budget Act must be supplemented with additional information. I believe that this House is working well together, it shows that both the Greens – Mr Rossmann has withdrawn his request earlier – and the FPÖ and the team from NEOS, together with Mr Krainer and me, are submitting this amendment. Thank you for the good cooperation, and I hope that this will continue to work so well in the Committee on Budgets.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e13126	The amendment tabled by Mrs Tamandl is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e13232	Next speaker: Mr Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e13254	Mr President. Dear Members of the Government! Col. Tamandl, the “team” – these are the ones that always switch to you! This budget is part of a large generation betrayal, which is still being rewritten here. Problems are left out, they are not addressed. They will fall on our minds in the next few years, in particular that generation that is now beginning to pay taxes, which are now beginning to pay pension and unemployment insurance contributions, and which may now be about to start a family. You just leave this group out of your mind. On the labour market budget, in the Committee on Social Affairs, Mr Hundstorfer said that the Minister of Finance and he was not yet fully in agreement on the figures to be used. You have easily clarified the disagreement by simply rewritten the figures from the financial framework we had in spring. [[towards Federal Minister Schelling]] You have not taken account of the massive deterioration in the starting position and we will have to deal with much more unemployed and emergency workers than that corresponds to the number you expect. That is, we already know today that a significant three-digit million amount will be missing in unemployment benefit alone. In the pension area we go on, you don't know who to believe. Shortly before the end of the negotiations in the Committee on Budgets on Pensions, we reached the opinion of KOLAPS, the Commission on long-term pension insurance, which, I believe, is not called KOLAPS by chance. There are supposed to be more favourable figures, because the figures come from the Ministry of Social Affairs and do not cover themselves with those figures that the Ministry of Finance assumes. And so you come to a difference by 2020 of almost 1 billion. Who else is there to believe? I mean, we all know that the Social Ministry likes to be beautifully colored, that sometimes it doesn't go on a cow's skin, but on the substance, it doesn't change whether a few million more or less have to be shot into the pension stopper. In other words, unlike Mr Krainer, pensions are not paid by GDP, but by what is initially lost and what comes from taxes, and by 2060, we will have to pay the triples of what we are getting into every year. President-in-Office of the Council of Auditors Moser has rightly said that 78 percent of the increases in expenditure that your financial plan provides are in the pension sector. And who benefits from your actions? They always praise the great “tax reform” – which you have to put under quotes – which you always praise, it always benefited so many people, but a group that benefits from it never mentions that these are the luxury pensioners. By out-of-tour raising the maximum contribution base, you will destroy essential effects of the Special Pension Restriction Act. The reduction of the luxury pensions is at the highest contribution base, and they lift you out of the way, and the cuts fall flat. You can understand that in your budget. So the effect of the special pension limit is practically zero. With your great tax reform, you still have a little bit of money to pay. Much has already been said about the family compensation fund. There the revenue is reduced, but we do not do anything about expenditure for the first time, instead of making structural adjustment and looking at what expenditure is at all in the family compensation fund and which are elsewhere. The debt path for the FLAF, the They had originally planned, which has obviously been cancelled. Let's get to the bonus malus. In this respect, we have also been sent to us in a legal shine just before the draft. When I said to the Committee on Social Affairs, Mr. Hundstorfer, who is unfortunately unable to hear me now, that the present text of the law is unconstitutional, he touched me with a high-red head and said: Haven't you read it again? Didn't you understand? I can now make the following request, because the salad was really unconstitutional, and I thank you for the understanding of the representatives of the government parties: [[Quoted print version removed]] The bonus malus is a embroidering as you listen to this formulation! It calculates 30 million bonuses and 18 million malus; 12 million discharge remains of a bureaucratic monster. They do not yet know who will manage this in the main association at all, set these sectoral quotas and inform the companies. – A huge bureaucratic insanity, and if no one were to take care of the opposition, you would still decide it unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e13345	The amendment tabled by Mr Loacker is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e13406	Next speaker: Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e13434	Mr President. Appreciate Mrs. Family Minister! Mr. Minister of Finance! Ladies and gentlemen. Appreciated spectators on the stands and in front of the televisions at home! President-in-Office of the Council Moser presented very impressively this budget, which we are discussing here, and also all the possibilities that are adopted, but do not necessarily have to be taken on the revenue side, and pointed out that there are, of course, large question marks here. First of all, I would like to express my thanks to all the taxpayers who make this money, especially the entrepreneurs, so that we can conduct this budget debate at all. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Chancellor Faymann spoke of a structural zero deficit. On the other hand, we have a permanent re-indebtedness in the state of Austria. This will eventually result in the debt of the state no longer being manageable, or in leaving our children and grandchildren a huge backpack of old loads. That is why I have set up this board so that, as I believe, we can see this loss of purchasing power, and because we are always talking about social balance in the budget. This is the front page of the “Presses” of the previous year. We have a 14 percent purchasing power loss for the workers, a 1 percent increase for employees and a 23 percent increase for officials. We see here, too, a mirror image of this – and I will add later on to the pension – that it is very probably very unevenly calculated or traded. I would like to give a recent example because we are always talking about compensation and what workers and entrepreneurs deserve more now. But we're not talking about the more they have to pay about where the money comes from. I call the example of the drivers as milk cows. Did we, please, consider that for all those who live in rural areas who need the means of transport car for education, for the way to work, the motor insurance tax has been increased by 42 percent over the last ten years? – In addition to the extremely high cost of fuel, it is enough for citizens, and then we also know where part of this income – which is said to be tax-justice – is not so tax-based. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] As the wife is present and FLAF has already been addressed several times: Of course, the concern raised by the previous speakers about reduced income is a matter. In this respect, it is said: It'll be balanced. But, Mrs. Minister: We still have a purchasing power loss of 24 percent in child support, because child support has simply not been corrected in the last ten years, and this is money that is missing from the families and therefore from the economy. Mr Wöinger! If you have given a guarantee to families here today, I am a little skeptical because I have missed the ÖVP family party very much in the last three, four decisions for the families with their clear position on the family. I would like to say: Not the narrator is enough, but the one that counts. This must also apply in politics. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] Because the government has made many promises in the election campaign – no new taxes, the administrative reform has been addressed – I would like to present a recent example as a comparison, because Upper Austria has the country election behind it and in the course of the election campaign, Captain Pühringer has said that the red tape has to come up with lightning. However, this has happened again, the thunderstorm has not come – only at the election result. But for the concrete comparison Bayern/Oberösterreich: Bavaria has a total area of, of which, is land and is water. Population: Bavaria has 12.46 million, Upper Austria 1.4 million inhabitants. Districts: Bavaria has seven districts, Upper Austria the twelvefold in comparison to the inhabitants, namely 15 districts. It is no different for Members: Bavaria has 187 country seats and Upper Austria 56. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] So savings without end – Mr Wöginger, this is especially important for your employees, whom you should represent! – and Mr President-in-Office Moser mentioned this. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Further call of the Abg. Wöger.]] Just listen, there are the good tips! [[Abg. Wöger: Do you really know Bavaria?]] He has published 560 examples in the “Kronen Zeitung” where the Federal Government can save, and he wants to help the Minister of Finance. You just need to take up the honest advice and not always speak badly. [[Abg. Fekter:... implemented!]] The proposals are here. A very specific example, Mrs Fekter: The head of state has said that the Federal Council should be reduced. I'm not for that at all. It's called Landenkammer, so I'm saying: If we do so, then this Chamber will respect its name, and then the Members of the Landtag, who know best about their country, can also represent their country in the Federal Council. I'd like to finish. I still have a lot to say, for example, about the McKinsey study because Minister Mitterlehner wrote in the news today or yesterday: 315,000 SMEs. - Yes, very important, of course! Small and medium-sized enterprises carry the economy, carry this nation. But why did they get 500 tax inspectors? – The courage to entrepreneurship is thus taken away, and the joy of entrepreneurship is assumed, and this ultimately depends on employment. We need debureaucratisation at the companies instead of criminalization. It simply doesn't work for every entrepreneur to be a tax evasioner. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I'm referring to the McKinsey study: We have a potential of €35 million in the next ten years when we exploit it. Austria is a great state with great opportunities – we take it! Today, the debate on refugees has initially been criticised so that the debate on the budget is also held here: Yes, of course, because this will be budget-relevant and because we finally have to distinguish between economic and war refugees. [[Call the ÖVP:Ready time!]] With our unfair economic system, we take on the possibility of life, the chance of life, the existence of life, and they come to us. This is exactly the subject that we now have, we are now being presented with the invoice for the last 20 years of Group economy. I would like to quote very briefly Dr. Tassilo Wallentin from Sunday, who - essentially - has said in all clarity, there is a secret paper in which the government is planning €12 billion of costs, and who, with legitimate argument as to the fact that 10,000 new refugees are to come in a month, points out that these naturally receive full basic security, pocket and school fees, replacement for travel, clothing and leisure costs and full access to the health system – without self-retaining, please very much! I ask you: Who's to finance this? – There must be answers to this, that is responsible budgetary policy, and we need clear answers. Finally, I can quote Dr. Wallentin with a quote from Nobel laureate Milton Friedman: “You can have a social state – you can have open borders; but you cannot have both.” I think we should consider this, and we should be prepared to implement a truly single, responsible policy. We are all required that this is too valuable for party-political small money. We're asking for support.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e13539	I call Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e13560	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Dear members of the government! Dear Mrs. Volksanstalt! To budget 2016: According to the draft budget, revenue is estimated at approximately €71.9 billion in 2016. Expenditure amounts to just over €77 billion. This corresponds to a deficit of 1.5 percent of GDP in the federal government. The debt ratio – which we have already heard today – is about 86.5 percent of the budget draft. The Federal Estimate 2016 states: stable finances through a structural reform. Ladies and gentlemen! Where is the structural reform? And where, please, is finally the necessary administrative reform? – The bureaucracy is becoming increasingly bloating in every respect, which is almost impossible to manage. With 1. In January 2016, the tax reform will enter into force. This includes a volume of approximately €5 billion. This tax reform – and this has been heard today – is expected to provide economic impetus. That would be right and necessary. Only the people, ladies and gentlemen, can now almost no longer afford life. And above all: How does counter-financing look? – It is true: There are correct approaches to this, but especially the diligent decent people in our country are again punished. If someone builds a house, creates property, buys an apartment, he becomes from 1st century onwards. Janen asked to check out the checkout. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I and many people strongly reject a procedure in this form. One has the feeling that this federal government punishes the hard-working, committed people, and that is certainly not all right. As we talked about the stable finances earlier: The costs for the refugee crisis, for modern international migration, can be calculated from the budget. Who pays for this in the future, dear friends? – I believe that the hard-working people in Austria again and no one else, and this has nothing to do with stability at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e13599	Mrs Lintl is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e13621	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Dear People's Lawyers! Much has already been said in the previous debate on the budget, but little positive. The fact is: The budget is false, unreliable and an attack on the future of our children and grandchildren, a provocation for the diligent Austrian taxpayers and service providers. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Mr Finanzminister! Don't you have a bad conscience if you make a big announcement in the budget speech that the truth would be reasonable to people, and in the same breath the Austrians predict that you would reach a discharge volume of €5.2 billion in the context of your glorious tax reform? – The truth is that the Austrians pay for this discharge themselves. [[We welcome the FPÖ and Mr Loacker and Mr Steinbichler.]] The promised basket money for the hardworking population of €1,000 will become a flop as will the “Ederer-Tusender”. Their tax reform is almost a state-ordered expensive consumer credit. But to spend this money will not be an opportunity, as people will have to invest in the provision for their pension, as the government is not able to really secure pensions. Do you not have a bad conscience, Mr Minister, if you, in the face of the threatening situation in Europe, save our federal army? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In view of the situation, why do you not stand up and spend more money on the defence of the country? – Austria can no longer defend its borders. Kasern, equipment, team: Everything's being dismantled. There's no money for that. But the expected financial needs for asylum seekers and illegal migrants do not limit expenditure. In view of the “secret paper asylum” collected in the media, costs of a total of € 12.3 billion can be expected over the next four years. Why, Minister, do you behave so calmly on this question? – In Germany, the increasing costs are constantly being discussed. You're obviously just about the look. They are trying to calculate the perhaps low estimated additional costs for the refugee crisis from the budget in order to achieve a low structural deficit with this deficit. [[Accompaniment with the FPÖ and the Abg. Dietrich.]] But this balance sheet cosmetics doesn't help, we have to pay for it anyway. Apart from that, the EU Commission will not, in any event, rate and recognise refugee costs as one-off costs. [[Federal Minister Schelling: Did you negotiate? I was there by chance!]] And you, Minister of Finance, are told by the EU that your budget violates the Stability and Growth Pact by giving Austria the debt symbol and not dealing with structural reforms. Nor do you take it with the truth exactly if you claim the counter-financing for the tax reform would be on solid legs. The opposite is the case: They throw the taxpayers and service providers in front of the legs, first and foremost these inconceivable registers. [[I should like to congratulate the FPÖ and Mr Loacker and Mr Lugar.]] They therefore put the diligent entrepreneurs under the general suspicion of tax fraud. This new regulation is technically poorly thought out and expression of excessive bureaucracy, which you want to reduce according to your budget speech, as it takes the company's air. Even your assessment of being able to take €900 million with the registers is unrealistic. For this, tax-honority in our country is simply too high. How should the Austrians trust you, Mr. Minister, if you don't trust the Austrians? [[It was in favour of the FPÖ as well as of Mr Lugar and Mr Dietrich.]] That is why I urge you to stop your balance sheet tricks, your debt policy and the denial of the costs of the refugee flow. [[Abg. Matznetter: This is an exciting lecture!]] Think about whether you and the entire government are still working in the service of the Austrians!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e13706	No one has made any mention of this. The debate is thus closed. Does one of the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 1: Draft Budget Support Act 2016 in 882 of the Supplements. There is a motion for an amendment tabled by Mr Mag. Mr Loacker, Mr Katzian, Mr Wöginger, Mr President, and Mr Mag. Rossmann, Tamandl, Krainer, Mag. Haider, Dr. Hable, colleagues. The Members of Parliament also have power. Mr Schwentner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled a motion for an amendment on which there is a request for a vote. I will therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the proposed addition or amendment, which follow the classification of the draft law, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Mag. Rossmann, Tamandl, Krainer, Mag. Haider, Dr. Hable, ladies and gentlemen have tabled an additional proposal which refers to the insertion of new points 5a and 5b in Article 2. Whoever speaks for it, I ask for a sign of consent. – This is unanimously accepted. Deputies Mag. Schwentner, colleagues and others have tabled an amendment concerning the withdrawal of Article 7. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. That's why I'm doing this. The votes to be used are in the House of Deputies and bear the name of the Members as well as the name 'Yes', which are the grey ballots, or 'No', which are the pink ones. Only those official votes can be used for the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I would like to ask those Members who are in favour of the amendment tabled by the honourable Member. Schwentner, ladies and gentlemen, vote in favour of putting “No” vote in the mood. Please be careful to throw only one vote mark. I now ask the rapporteur, Mr Lueger, to begin the call for name. Mr Gahr will replace them later. - Please, Mrs. Writer.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e13805	The vote will end. The officials of the House responsible for this task will now make the number of votes under the supervision of the Correspondents. The meeting will be suspended for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e13843	Ladies and gentlemen! I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote: 167 votes were cast, of which ‘Yes’ votes were: 68, No votes: 99. The amendment tabled by the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Schwentner, ladies and gentlemen, is therefore rejected. According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Alm, Angerer, Aslan, Belakovich-Jenewein, Bösch, Brosz, Brückl, Brunner; Darmann, Deimek, Doppler; Fuchs; Gamon Claudia Angela, Glavischnig-Piesczek; Hable, oats, haider, houser, hoebart, courter, moubner; Jannach; Karlsböck, Kassinger, Kitzmüller, Köchl, Kogler, Korun, Kumpitsch; noise, lights, lints, loackers; Maurer, Mölzer, Moser, Mückstein, Mühlberghuber; Neubauer Werner; Pillow, Pirklhuber, Pock; smoke Walter, Riemer, Rosary Barbara, Rosary Walter, Rossmann; Schatte, Schellenbacher, Schellhorn, Scherak, Schimanek, Schmid Gerhard, Schmid Julian, Schrangl, Schwentner, Stefan, Steinhauser, Strache, Strolz; themesl; Vavrik; Walser, Willi, Windbühler-Sushill, Worm Peter; Singer, Zinggl. Members voted with ‘No’: Amon Werner, Antoni, Aubauer, Auer, Bacher Walter, Bayr, Becher Ruth, Berlakovich, Buchmayr; Cap; Diesner-Wais, Dietrich, perforation; Ecker, Ehmann, El Habbassi, Ertlschweiger, Eßl, Fazekas, Fichtinger Klaus Uwe, Fekter, Fichtinger Angela; Gahr, Gerstl, Gessl-Ranftl, Greiner Karin, Groiß, Grossmann, Gusenbauer-Jäger; Hagen, Hakel Elisabeth, Hammer Michael, Hanger, Haubner, Hechtl, Heinzl, Himmelbauer, Hofinger Manfred, Höfinger Johann, Holzinger-Vogtenhuber, Huainigg; Jank, Jarolim; Karl, Katzian, Keck, Kirchgatterer, Knes, Königsberger-Ludwig, Kopf, Krainer Kai Jan, Krist, Kucharovich, Kucher; Lettenbichler, Lipitsch, Lopatka, Lueger Angela, Lugar Robert; Matznetter, Mayer, Muttonen; Obernosterer, kilnauer, ottenschlager; Pendl, Pfurtscheller, Plessl, Preiner; Rädler, Rauch Johannes; Schabhüttl, Schenk, Schidner, Schittenhelm, Schmijsschlager, Schönegger, Schopf, Schultes, Sieber Norbert, Singer Johann, Spindelberger, Steinacker, Steinbichler, Strasser; Tumandl, daughters, door; sub-railers; Vetter, Vogl; Refusal torfer, Weninger, tiny, Wittmann, Wevinger, Worm Gisela; Yılmaz; Zakostelsky.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e14035	Now I'm asking for attention again. Deputies Mag. Loacker, Katzian, Wöginger, colleagues have tabled an amendment concerning Article 7 Z5. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 7 as amended by the Committee's report, taking account of the amendment tabled by Members. Loacker, Katzian, Wöginger, colleagues. I ask those Members of the House who give their consent to a sign of confirmation. – This is accepted by the majority. Deputies Mag. Loacker, Katzian, Wöginger, colleagues and others have tabled an amendment concerning Article 9 Z3. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a positive sign. – This request is also accepted by a majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This too is largely accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall also proceed to the vote on agenda item 2: Draft federal law amending the Court of Auditors Act, together with the title and receipt in 883 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 3: Draft federal law approving the justification of charges by the Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology, together with the title and receipt in 846 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is largely adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 4: Draft federal law on the approval of the federal accounts for the year 2014, together with the title and receipt in 885 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[13:10:43]] 5. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (819, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Federal Financial Framework Act 2015 to 2018 and 2016 to 2019 as well as the Federal Finance Act 2015 (890 d.b.) 6. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (820, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law on the Approval of the Federal Estimate for the Year 2016 (Federal Finance Act 2016 – BFG 2016) together with investments (891 d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e14173	We now come to points 5 and 6 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. [[13:10:45]] UG 01: Presidential Chancellery UG 02: Federal legislation UG 03: Constitutional Court UG 04: Administrative Court UG 05: Public Prosecutor's Office UG 06: Court of Auditors UG 10: Federal Chancellery
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e14237	In line with the proposed breakdown, we now proceed to subheadings 01 to 06 and 10. A joint debate is taking place on this matter. Mr Magnificent came to speak. Stefan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e14262	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen here in the High House! Before I come to the real issue, another word addressed to ÖVP delegates Eßl, who here held a plea for property as a motivation for performance. That's what I thought: Interesting approach, I like it! Eßl has found that the taxation of property was prevented by the ÖVP. I'm wondering only why many notarial and legal firms are now being stormed by citizens, who have property, and who are afraid of a secret inheritance and gift tax, which is due to families in the next year, and who therefore want to transfer goods. That doesn't fit very well, so your plea goes empty. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This tax reform is precisely what affects service providers and, in particular, families. You may not be aware of this, so I tell you, Mr President, otherwise you probably would not have kept this plea so loose. Now, however, on the points that I am going to deal with here: Federal Chancellery, Constitutional Court, Administrative Court. This, of course, always includes administrative reform. It must go from the Federal Chancellery. A total savings target of €1.1 billion is foreseen for the administrative and support reform, from the Federal Government € 700 million, of which € 500 million in the administration, € 200 million in funding. These are the targets. I don't believe in it; the past teaches us that this is beautiful. On the other hand, I see that € 700 million will be spent on housing financing. So I wonder how this should be done with these savings targets. I like to be taught to a better person, but, as I said, the past shows that unfortunately we will not experience that there are actually savings. Administrative Court and Constitutional Court have been given new tasks in recent years due to reforms that have also been carried out by FPÖ. We have closed a legal gap by now having an individual complaint to control standards, which can be used to refer to the Constitutional Court. 275 procedures are currently pending. This shows that we've hit the black one with it. We have implemented the administrative jurisdiction. This is also a real increase in the quality of the rule of law in Austria. Two things, as we have said, that we have supported and carried along. However, this also leads to some increased effort. The Constitutional Court also adds that there is now also the examination of inputs to examination committees, and it is also important that, due to mass immigration, asylum procedures increase even more and that, as a result of the asylum law, asylum law now also comes to the Administrative Court, but also to the Constitutional Court and there is therefore an increased effort there. It is a major quality feature of a rule of law when there are high-quality procedures and a short period of procedure. Both, you have to notice, there are in Austria. So we can be quite proud that this works. However, it is also important that this remains the case and is not altered or worsened by misunderstanded measures. It is therefore necessary, in fact, that there be re-transitions from the presidency office, from the various ministries and cabinets to the Constitutional Court, the Administrative Court, to the Federal Administrative Court, so that there can be sufficient human resources there so that the quality of these legal institutions remains, so that the duration of the proceedings can be reduced accordingly and the quality is guaranteed. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] These are essential points that we must not sacrifice by putting in place wrong measures, spending the money on the wrong side, and having representation and so on, superfluous expenditure.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e14331	The next speaker is Mr Wittmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e14352	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen, lawyers! High house! Top institutions, legislation: What's to say? - Let's start at our own house. I think it is a real achievement that we have created our own budget item for the reconstruction of this House, from which it is clear to all that the costs of this conversion will be incurred. For 2016, € 32 million is set. This will cover the preliminary costs for the transfer, but also the preliminary costs for the start of the renovation here at the building. It is important that transparency is given and that every citizen can understand that there is a budget item of his own from which he can read for himself how the reconstruction of this house takes place. This is, I believe, a measure which contributes to transparency and the acceptance of reconstruction and also of this House. I think this is one of the greatest achievements. The second point I would like to mention, because he also concerns his own house: I think cooperation between Parliament's Directorate and the Members is excellent because the implementation of the majority report is being prepared by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and the Constitutional Committee, and legislative proposals are being developed. I think this is an excellent new approach, and despite the constant budget, greater efficiency is achieved in our own task. To the Federal Chancellery or the Constitutional Court: Mr. Col., I'm right about that. We need to consider how many cases will arise from the new standard of legal protection of the individual complaint for the control of standards and, accordingly, the Constitutional Court must also be set up. In the Federal Administration, 225 posts were created to deal with asylum proceedings; 42 new planning posts were set up for the appeal at the Bundesverwaltungsgericht. This should be done, and I believe that this is a good measure, a visible measure to deal with the issue of asylum in the next few years and to deal with it. The Federal Chancellery, with its measures in the digital field in particular, is underestimated. If you are filed electronically or file applications with electronic signatures, 40 percent will be possible in the case of criminal register extracts, commercial registrations and other measures. This is a real reform and quality improvement. I would also like to mention that Austria has a pioneering role, particularly in the digital field, and despite the low use of resources, it has a highly efficient output. In 2014 Austria won the Public Service Award of the UN – this should also be mentioned that we are at the top of all countries. In essence, the budget of the Supreme Institutions is a reasonable budget, a budget that is not excessive, a budget that is economical, and ultimately it also enables us to fulfil all the tasks to be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e14396	The next item is Mrs Dr. Moser's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e14419	Mr President. High-ranking organs! Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen! You're particularly in favour of my plea. Responsibility for dealing with taxpayers should be our heart's concern. Today we have the budget debate, which is about the distribution of taxpayers' money. It is now very specific that the Court of Auditors can at last be at the heart of this debate, because the Court of Auditors is by law the lawyer of taxpayers. He examines the efficient use of tax money, and he repeatedly lays his finger on the wound of inefficiency, waste and, in part, corruption. Mr President, thank you for your work. Thank you very much also to the many employees in the Court of Auditors. Their test reports are always a reason for improvements or should at least also be motivation for legislative changes – but there it is. That is why I appeal to you today, for example to you, Mr Pendl, you are also important in the SPÖ. Many SPÖ members in the Court of Auditors committee – I believe, even all SPÖ members in the Court of Auditors Committee – suffer from the fact that the proposals made by the Court of Auditors are constantly pumping up the proposals that your Members are arguing about in the Committee. Now I am also addressing the colleagues of the ÖVP. There are also very dedicated employees or representatives of the Court of Auditors. Mr Gahr is already sitting here, he is also trying to make the government more efficient. But both of you from the SPÖ and you from the ÖVP, which together make up the majority in this house, you keep striking off. They run against the rubber or concrete wall of inefficiency, and this inefficiency has a name: In the field of health, education, care, minimum security, this inefficiency means federal states and national leaders. [[Congratulation with greens and NEOS.]] The power of these institutions is the shackle for efficient government budget and for efficient management and implementation in the use of budget resources. This power is also the shackles of these Members here on the left and on the right of me, who are the majority in Parliament. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as a member of the opposition, I suffer from the fact that these inefficiencies are always prolonged. Now comes the additional inefficiency: the Court of Auditors' budget. The Court of Auditors' budget is on a slight rise – but we all, the SPÖ and ÖVP representatives as well as we from the opposition, have received this graphic from you, Mr President of the Court of Auditors, in the Committee. [[The speaker shows a graphic.]] The graphic shows the following: Inflation is recorded in the blue line, in the red or violet line, the Court of Auditors' budget is recorded. The thick line shows what the Court of Auditors is getting out of the budget, and the thin, dashed line shows what the Court of Auditors then has at its disposal by resolving its reserves. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kogler.]] That is, to close this gap just so that we can get close to inflation – I don't want to talk about adapting to the gross domestic product – or to the vicinity, the yellow line is the federal budget – that goes only by constantly getting into the savings book. This is now the fourth year, ladies and gentlemen: For the fourth year, the Court of Auditors is living, so to speak, from the Savings Book! It can't go on that way anymore! I tell you very specifically what that means: There will then no longer be funds in the Court of Auditors for enhanced training, for better computer technology. There are then fewer resources or no more resources for the valuable cross-sectional tests, which cost a lot of staff. We've had it converted: This recourse to the Savings Book, which is then no longer possible, because the Savings Book is empty, because it has to be closed, means ten tests less per year. Ten fewer audits by the Court of Auditors, of which every examiner brings us something. I always say that the Court of Auditors is actually the hidden gold pit of the Republic. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pendl.]] If we were to take the proposals seriously, if we were finally to launch the monster reform projects offensively in the sense of the Court of Auditors' research, then we would have savings – savings in billions. This is exactly where I am with Mrs Fekter, where we can make a slight bill, and you yourself know it from your past in the financial sector. On Thursday, your majority then decides 5 billion deficit – 5 billion deficit in the overall budget. The Court of Auditors has been making proposals for years to see how this sum could have been saved. If you count it against, every first-classer can: If we were to follow the Court's proposals, there would be no such large deficit, or could we even develop positively towards zero deficit. However, you obviously have deaf ears or blind eyes, I don't know, or you don't want, or you can't or don't have power over the national leaders – it's what it is. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Frameset]] This weakening of control is also a weakening of Parliament. If If you send the Court of Auditors to Askese, and the Court of Auditors, that is to say, cut down your own control institutions. This is a circumcision of your parliamentary rights, that is a cut into your own meat! I don't know how thick Your meat is, because you've been cutting in for four years – that's not going on any more soon. We have already reached the leg, so to speak, and I really want to save many of you. That's why, ladies and gentlemen, my closing plea: Strengthen the Court's budget, we need it! I haven't mentioned a number yet: The Court of Auditors has only 86.1 per cent of the planned posts! We have already reached the minimum level of staff – Mr Pendl, you know the staff. Planning sites are not re-occupied, the pressure on the testers, what is happening time and use, is getting higher and higher. I want to avoid this, and therefore: please do not ask less Court of Auditors, but more Court of Auditors! More Court of Auditors means fewer public debt, less government expenditure, less waste and less corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e14530	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I know this is always so easy and very fast, but I would like to ask you if you practice criticism that you do not link it to a disability. It's very easy to say: They have “deep ears” and “blind eyes”!, and this did not mean any evil, but for those who are behind them, it can be a real disorder when you listen here. [[Abg. Moser: This is a pure metaphor!]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Pendl and Mr Fekter.]] Mr Magnificent came to speak. Gerstl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e14569	Mr President. I will not go further into Mrs Moser's comments, which my colleague Mr Singer will do later; the issue of the Court of Auditors is his area. I would like to focus today on the subjects of Parliament and the Federal Chancellery. We have set an effective goal in Parliament, which is to bring 10,000 pupils to the “democracy workshop”. Unfortunately, this goal could not be achieved – although hardly, but it could not be achieved. I think it is very important that we give all of us, before they are elected, the opportunity to visit this House and get to know democracy. There is nothing more important than that we train people here for democracy. That is what I am saying at a time when democracy is at risk in many countries of the world. It is therefore very, very important to me that all Austrians before they have their 16. At least once can be in this House and participate in the “democracy workshop”. They can recognize the benefits, but also the disadvantages of democracy, while also recognizing that the benefits in democracy are always superior and any other form of government and any other form of state is worse. The second point I would like to address is that in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, we have undertaken to strengthen democracy in order to strengthen Parliament accordingly. What am I thinking? – Among other things, we have suggested that people cannot get involved at the end of a legislative process, what happens by popular desire, or by making the opposition here a theatre, whether this law fits or not. [[Abg. Kogler: (with ironic hustle and bustle) What? Never!]] People should be able to bring themselves in instead before we create such a law. This should be possible through a so-called crowdsourcing platform, where we have people, experience in a particular jurisdiction, in a particular matter, before a draft law to bring in their thoughts and proposals. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] I would suggest that Parliament could make such a crowdsourcing platform available. I would also like Parliament to make an online platform available in the field of assessment procedures. This should enable us to really accompany review procedures directly, so that every citizen, every citizen, can bring himself to every single point of a legislative project and make comments. As legislators, we can then see which points are more important to people, which are less important, and which also draw our conclusions from them. I am therefore going to the Federal Chancellor's Office, as I would like to express my thanks to Mrs Steßl, Secretary of State. [[Abg. Pendl: Bravo!]] Thank you for being able to make it possible quickly in a difficult time for the police to receive the necessary personnel they need – whether it be for asylum proceedings at the Federal Office for Foreign Affairs and Asylum, on the other hand, for more border police. Thank you very much, Mrs State Secretary, for the unbureaucratic process and the rapid provision of more staff. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I'd like to finish with that. The conclusion is to the Minister of Finance, whom I would particularly like to thank for not getting tired of always moving forward reforms that are necessary for this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e14651	The next item is the speech by Mr Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e14672	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Dear People's Lawyers! We are discussing a lot of different UGs. In connection with the UG concerning Parliament, thank you very much to the budget service. This is excellent work being done there, and it is very important for us Members in relation to the budget. In this context, it is important to say that for the first time we have managed to load the Presidents of the Supreme Courts, that is, by the Constitutional Court and the Administrative Court. We were made aware of the fact that resources are scarce there, in particular the President of the Constitutional Court has told us that. The President of the Constitutional Court of Holzinger has said that he finds this particularly problematic because the VfGH has achieved many new tasks. Since we, as legislators, are also guilty – Mr Stefan has already mentioned it – who has given the Constitutional Court these new tasks, whether it be the legislative complaint, which is an incrediblely important one, whether it be possible to call upon the Constitutional Court's investigation committees on questions. The problem is: If we do not make sufficient resources available, the procedural periods will also be extended accordingly. The President of the Administrative Court, Rudolf Thienel, meant that at the VwGH he saw the crack point in 2017 and that he was going to go out until then. VfGH President Holzinger, on the other hand, said that at the Constitutional Court, there are already far more legal complaints than he originally thought. They seem to have appreciated this, and in addition, as has been said, there is also the possibility of calling the VfGH to the committee of inquiry. In addition, there is the additional burden on asylum issues, I believe that we are all in agreement. We know that the flows of refugees will not tear off as soon as possible, there will be more procedures. There is an interesting answer from the Constitutional Court in a budget request: If one assumes that 1 500 procedures are pending in the field of asylum, additional costs will be added per day of extended procedure. These costs, of course, come from basic supply. For me, it is not understandable that, although the President of the Constitutional Court says that he needs more financial resources, we cannot make it possible for the Constitutional Court, the guardian of our Constitution, to make it available to the Constitutional Court. One must also say that it is not about much, but it is about saying and writing 700 000 euros that are necessary. The importance of the Constitutional Court is given in every country, but especially in a country like Austria. We know how many important things the Constitutional Court decides, because, as Parliament, we are partly unable to pass constitutional laws, and that is why it is particularly important. Accordingly, I do not understand that we do not make the financial resources available, especially since in retrospect, if asylum procedures extend accordingly, the whole thing will fall back on us, because then there will be additional costs. For this reason, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I think it's very essential that we do this. It's not about a lot of money compared to the entire budget. If you agree, then it will be ensured that the great work done by the Constitutional Court in Austria can continue to be done in a faster and efficient way.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e14749	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place, and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e14816	Next speaker: Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e14837	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and in front of the screens! [[Abg. Kogler: Masses in the stadium!]] Mr Scherak, when you're in the house for a longer time, it repeats: Every budget debate is the first sage: We do not make debts – and then each chapter demands more. I think we all know that. [[Abg. Brosz:... Government Council!]] I would like to deal with the Federal Law and the Federal Chancellery in the short term with the Supreme Institutions, but would also like to thank me very much for all the Supreme Institutions in general. In our house, I would like to thank the staff of the Parliamentary Directorate and the clubs as well as the parliamentary staff very much. It does not matter to us whether it is midnight or eight o'clock in the morning, everything should work – I think the Austrian public service provides excellent services for the state and its citizens. We should say thank you at least at the time of the budget debate, and I am very happy to do so. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, Parliament has progressed in recent years. I know everything could go faster, but we have really progressed to a working parliament. But that must mean one thing for everyone and be clear: The more activities we have in the house – I save myself the list for time – the more resources we need, that is no question at all. You can see exactly the boundaries, from the localities to the staff – what you often mean to the staff, you have to be careful. I mean, a modern working parliament just needs the necessary resources, I think we all agree. I am also glad that Mr Wittmann has also mentioned that we have at least the conversion of Parliament as our own budget item – that it is visible that it is understandable that we are trying to get through with the budget. Mrs. State Secretary Steßl, I am pleased that Mr Gerstl thanked you, because I have this in mind and do it. We have several such areas, my dear colleague, Gerstl, where Mrs. State Secretary and her staff have actually acted very uncomplicatedly – now we are with the public servants again – and I ask you to give thanks to your employees as well. There are some very delicate areas in which we had to react quickly, some of which have been listed. I mean, that also shows how important it is that we must have some flexibility within the public sector, especially in those times. It has always been promised to the public service that it is more rigid, not mobile, not flexible, but I must say: What we have experienced over the past few weeks and months – congratulations, too, that is progress, that is a further development. We will still have the pleasure of allowing public servants to complete their salary. I mean, this budget is an excellent budget for all the wishes that exist in one area or another, despite tax reform, and I am convinced that with this budget all their work can be done properly and correctly in the interests of the Austrians.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e14893	Next speaker: Mrs Schenk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e14915	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Mrs. Volksanwaltin! Mr. Volksanwälte! Mr President-in-Office of the Council. I am referring to two areas, the Court of Auditors and the Public Prosecutor's Office. I'll start with the Court of Auditors. Unfortunately, I have to say that in the course of this budget-making, it has been refused to renovate the Court of Auditors' budget in a sustainable way and to provide planning security. I stress that the Court of Auditors is a control body of the National Council, which brings more savings than costs. The Chairman of the Committee of the Auditors has already referred to it: We talk about the same problem almost every year, but unfortunately nothing changes. The Abbe The government parties voted differently than they speak in committee if they praise the President of the Court of Auditors and his reports so much. All Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, who today agree to this budget, deliberately reduce the potential for savings, less control and less advice. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this should make you think. It's still a little bit of time until Thursday until we're going to vote here. But we really need to think again about what will happen to the Court of Auditors' budget in the future. The Court of Auditors has been economical in recent years. He has created deposits. These reserves are now gradually dissolved in order to maintain the operation and to be able to comply with the constitutional mandate and report to Parliament. But it's over in 2017. The Court of Auditors lacks €3 million in 2017. Then the core task can no longer be done, no longer to the same extent as it is at present, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I think that's a matter of concern. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] In connection with the €3 million that the Court of Auditors will lack in the 2017 budget, I would like to highlight a few figures. In 2012, the Federal Government spent almost €31 million on advertising, and in 2014 almost €3 million of representation costs were incurred. In this context, it would also be argued that ten days of border use cost around €14 million. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, you should not put this up with the other, but where one will is, there is one way. Don't go. There's no way. In the area of the Court of Auditors in particular, it is really necessary to think about it again. It is the last budget of the President of the Court of Auditors, Moser – unfortunately, I say, leaving next year, but he has always been very well-negotiated, economical and leaves a good house. I would also like to speak briefly to the People's Procuratorate. With 74 planning posts, the level of staff in the field of general administration remains the same. The Volksanwälte come out with the budget. Responsibilities are also dissolved here. € 350 000 and € 300 000 are necessary to maintain the operation, but that is guaranteed. I would like to point out that it is only very sluggish – and we have discussed this in committee – as far as the proposals for the elimination of misunderstandings are concerned. To this end, I would like to mention the word "law of the state" because a complaint of plus 25 percent is not to be neglected, which is very high. In this area, something should finally be dealt with. There are already different groups, there is something to be done in this direction, but there is no concrete solution yet. I say this especially in the light of the fact that this problem has not existed since yesterday, but has been obvious for many years. Finally, I would also like to thank you very much. We have not been able to clarify all the questions from us in the Committee on Budgets, but the employees of the Public Prosecutor's Office have submitted the answers. That was good, thank you for that!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e14991	Mrs Fekter. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e15012	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Volksanwälte! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! I speak to the People's Procuratorate, which is because the People's Procuratorate is also responsible for the protection and control of respect for human rights in Austria. When I read the newspaper in the early days, I was very upset at the interview by the chairman of the Islamic Religious Community Linz for the country of Upper Austria Murat Baser and his statements on the role of the woman and the domination of the man over the woman. [[The speaker keeps a daily “New Volksblatt” in her hands and sets it up.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, let me take this opportunity to appeal to Mr Murat Baser. I know him personally from the mosque in Attnang-Puchheim. I have always appreciated him very much and actually considered him to be a moderate and endeavored to ensure a good living together, but the interview shows that Mr Murat Baser does not know our legal order. Therefore, I would like to make the following appeal to him: Dear Mr Murat Baser! Your interview, which you gave to the Volksblatt, is not acceptable. Their position against women is not merely objectionable, but illegal. Our constitution and the rule of law determine that man and woman are equal. Human rights apply equally to all. This must also be accepted by Muslims. The dignity and rights of women and girls in Austria are not negotiable and not relativable, even through the Koran. Human rights are absolutely valid and protected by the Constitution. The Constitution defines our guiding culture in Austria, which the people living here must accept, also the Muslims. Mr Murat Baser, you have great responsibility. They teach the Qur'an. I'm appealing to you: Read our constitution and human rights too, and include this in your teaching! Avoid the youth taking a completely wrong path by acting with illegal, human rights-disregarding positions toward girls and women! This path brings mental pressure and violence to women, and that is the seed of injustice. We Austrians do not demand assimilation from the Muslims. They can maintain their traditions. However, we call on Muslims to respect our constitution and our laws, as well as the acceptance of the principles of our Constitution, in particular that women and men are equal, that the dignity and rights of girls are protected by our constitution. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Only if our “Constitutional Arch” is accepted by the Muslims, our guiding culture is possible to live together peacefully in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e15085	The next speaker is Mr Zanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e15106	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! There are obvious signs and miracles, but this will be discussed with Mrs Schimanek, Mrs Fekter. I go a little bit to the Court of Auditors or, as I call it freely after Karl May, the kingdom of the Silver Lion. That is how it could be described now, where President Moser really fights with full energy and full Elan for this House to fulfil its task. What is this task? In reality, it is to serve us here in Parliament and to explain how In this Republic one can work more economical, more effective and more efficient, which would, of course, also be a great advantage for taxpayers, one would only implement what the Court of Auditors is presenting in this way. Well, it's already been said: From the year 2017, it will be dramatic because the reserves that the Court of Auditors has set up will be consumed until then, although – that must be said – he really does his work in the most economical ways. If I see that 323 sites would be available to him, however, de facto only 304 are occupied – because, due to the economical equipment, financial resources can no longer be used at all – then you have to say, these people, to whom I have the highest respect, really already work at the limit. We here in Parliament have decided to do so and have transferred much more tasks to the Court of Auditors – the party law, the media transparency law – but do not provide the necessary resources to enable it to cope with the associated administrative activities, which are of enormous importance. The invoice will then be presented to Members, because at least the administrative activities have only “costed” 43 follow-up tests for these two laws. Today, we know how important such advisory services are, which are not necessarily only to be seen as control or as a locust to anyone. They are, rather, advisory and services which the Court of Auditors provides to us, but also to the audited body. If I don't evaluate this sometime, it'll only bring half of what it's supposed to bring. It would be really important to do all the follow-up tests, but it is not possible right now. The much larger fragments are the very decisive and essential tests for us, namely the cross-sectional tests on how different bodies interact. In this respect, stand 2011 was still 21 cross-sectional tests and in 2015 it is hot four. In fact, I do not understand Parliament itself. These tests contain things that go to the inside, which is about the economy and about the big chunks in this Republic. If I look at the state of implementation: One is always talking about these 80 percent that are implemented, 20 percent are not going to, that is described in effect Objective 3. If I look at the effect target 1 which contains the large chunks, and see, it's only 43 percent implemented, then I know exactly where to start. For a finance minister or a government, for a budget officer, it should be clear what to do first, namely: Okay, I have an institution that offers a really professional paperwork – even for management, if I want to see a government like that – then I start to implement it. As a government, one can save so much money that one can easily pay the Court of Auditors these €3 million that he would need – and probably even much more than a bonus for it, because this is actually done in the economy. But what does Republic do? – The exact opposite! I find that very worrying and not all right!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e15161	Mr. Member, you wanted to make a request, didn't you? This could be done by the next speaker, as you cannot speak again now. Mrs Lueger is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e15188	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! The 2016 budget, which we are discussing today, has three main points: To relieve tax payers, to relieve them of a massive burden, which has also succeeded in creating growth and employment – not only in the private sector, but also in bringing about an example that the government is very likely to succeed in creating jobs – and above all to strengthen purchasing power. My colleague, Mr Wittmann, has already mentioned to the Supreme Institutions and to the highest legislation that it is a very positive sign, especially in the context of Parliament renewal, in the sense of transparency, that Parliament's own budget posts are being created. What we should not forget about Parliament's management – and I would like to mention this very much again and again: the "democracy workshop" in which young people can easily practice, try out and learn democracy. This is an important aspect on which the budget figures can easily be rewritten. I would also like us to make it possible for not only some selected schools, but many schools, almost all schools to participate in them. I'm already coming to the Federal Chancellery: I said earlier that the federal government also creates service and teaching posts. Let me come to the apprentices. ==References== September 2015 includes 1,540 apprentices in the federal government. Only this year 300 apprentices started vocational training at the federal government. What the apprentices pay very much attention to is a gender-sensitive access, so that many girls also find themselves in professions that are not necessarily typical of girls. The apprenticeship exchange with the private sector is expanded and the teaching with Matura is further advanced, with the most positive being the fact that 50 percent of apprentices starting at the federal government also have the opportunity to continue working at the federal government. Administrative reform is a very “ployed” word, which must always stand for all possible things. But it has already happened very, very much in the background – and the Secretary of State has already been praised here today – so that one can only continue there. I would like to add a few points, what happened and what is still in preparation: The online application for companies, for companies, is simply being driven forward with cheaper fees, there is the automatic employee employment that should work from next year onwards, we have already implemented the applicationless family support. By the end of 2015, a new form for new business start-ups will enter into force, and finally I would like to mention the point of help.gv.at, that is, digitization in the Federal Service, where there is a new app in the area of the family, for example, HELP4BABY. It is actually a digital mother-child pass that has been provided with memories and explanations for young parents and can be easily downloaded. 4 million calls at help.gv.at show how important this service is and how good it is that it should be further expanded. Thank you very much for that. We're on a good way.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e15240	Next speaker: Mr Brosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e15261	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I want to start with UG 10, with the media. Minister Ostermayer is heu- Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. In principle, it must be noted that press promotion in Austria has taken on a development in which direct press promotion, i.e. what is also called quality promotion, has gradually decreased in recent years. It is not that bad, however, because the indirect media promotion in Austria, i.e. the share of advertising with which one wants to be reported, is significantly higher. It is a multiple of the regular press promotion. In the field of quality promotion, however, there is a particular problem, namely the training of journalists. Although the budget item remains the same, there are for the first time two institutions which are supported by the same sum, which has previously received a renowned institution, namely the Board of Directors for Journalistic Training. This will continue in the future and will have the effect that this only renowned training institution will have to make up for € 170 000 this year, to cease to provide benefits, to be able to do more, and this will also lead to budgetary problems in the following years. We believe that it would be possible – Otto Pendlist was already gone, otherwise I would have said that everything would not have to be done anymore!, for example, one could save on government budgets and increase press promotion for this; that would no longer cost, it would probably be cheaper – to generally make a fair and transparent form of press promotion, and in particular to change a point in this regard. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] In general, a change in press promotion would be urgently appropriate. The second point I want to come to is Parliament's budget. Mr Gerstl has made some interesting remarks on this point. In fact, Mr Gerstl has rightly said what is to be done in Parliament, because there is a decision by the National Council. According to the Committee of Inquiry, SPÖ and ÖVP have decided that there should be changes, for example by comparing changes and a transparent homepage, to improve the assessment procedures. There should be a so-called crowdsourcing in legislative procedures, so that citizens are to be involved in the run-up and have a platform on which this will be set up and can also take place. What Mr Gerstl did not say about it is that this is not likely to go to the zero rate, but there are no anchorages in the budget. I would now like to ask colleagues Gerstl – if he were there – what he believes about how this will be implemented if the budget remains unchanged. I also asked the President in the Committee on Budgets whether she had bunked any reserves that might be used for this. The answer was: No, the opposite is the case, we are just solving reserves to finance normal operation! And now there are additional requirements. It is also intended to strengthen the efforts of Members to strengthen the legal and legislative service – there is no budgetary anchorage whatsoever. This is a very unbelievable policy when one announces what should be better, which clearly needs more resources, but in no way ensures that this can happen. On the third point, I would have referred once again to Mr Pendl, because the President of the Court of Auditors is here today: For example, when you look at the Court of Auditors report on the Ski World Ski Championship in Schladming, you realize that there are easy ways to finance it. For example, one simply did not need to finance what someone else already financed! That is what the Court of Auditors report has said. At the World Ski Championships it was practically and wonderfully supported twice! The parts that have been supported by the FIS have supported the Federal Ministry once again, and this is about millions of amounts! It would not be the case that we are always demanding more and more, we as opposition also call for a careful handling of the tax money, and only if you look at the report, you will find a whole sluggish of proposals as to how savings could be made would be significantly better. So it's not that it's always about demanding more, but a reasonable handling of tax money would certainly help and would free other resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e15367	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place, and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e15431	Next speaker: Mr Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e15452	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Today and last year we remember in our country some historical events: Beginning of World War I, end of World War II, EU accession. Some other events were of great importance to the recognized autocratic Austrian groups, including the signing of the State Treaty. The signing of the State Treaty has not only brought Austria freedom, it has also for the first time led to the recognition of the groups at all levels of the state in Austria, as set out in Article 7 of the State Treaty. This includes, among other things, the right to an official language, the right to multilingual training, the right to topographic inscriptions. Much has been achieved in the meantime: the Volksgruppengesetz, national councils with appropriate financial support, the official language system, topographic inscriptions up to the establishment of the bilingual town boards: 15 years ago in Burgenland, in Carinthia, finally more comprehensive in 2011. All of this is very positive, there is a peaceful living together and no conflict of peoples' groups. That sounds like everything's vain, but unfortunately it's not – that's not at all. Today, in summer, a meeting of the six recognized autochthonic groups, namely the People's Advisory Councils, has been held for the first time after ten years, and it has become clear that the Austrian groups are at risk, not from political assimilation, but simply from the fact that identity-making features, such as the language, are losing importance. It is therefore important – and this was also noted there – that there is a comprehensive analysis of the state of the Austrian peoples: Where are they? How are they really doing? Building on this – that is our demand – there should be not every ten years, but at regular intervals, a meeting of the ethnic groups to develop common strategies as well. Financial support is an important contribution, but even more important is media support, and the ORF has a key role to play in this. People's language is identity! If it is no longer used or used, then the ethnic group begins to lose and ceases to exist. In the previous year, 25 years of Dobar than Hrvati and 25 years of Dober dan, Koroška – ORF broadcasts in the national group languages – were celebrated, this year 25 years of Adj’Issten magyarok, and this shows that the media offer is positive but simply too low. Our proposal, therefore, is that ORF III – a recognised station with a cultural range – be extended by relevant linguistic programmes in the ethnic group: in Croatian, in Slovenian, Hungarian, Czech, Slovak and also in Romanes. This would be a support for the Austrian peoples. It is also important to apply to offices and authorities. At present it is like this: When a national group member goes to an office, he receives a German form with a translation aid. That's ridiculous! In the Volksgruppengesetz, the right to popular forms has been laid down, the regulations have been in the Federal Chancellor's Office for months, but have not yet been adopted. Our call is for these regulations to be adopted so that the ethnic groups can also apply the law before offices and authorities. I'm even going one step further: More meaningful are not monolingual Croatian or Hungarian forms, but multilingual forms as they are internationally common. Let me conclude by saying: We also thought of a bad event this year: 20 years ago, four Roma were killed in Oberwart by a secret attack, and a Croat in Stinatz was injured. This is one of the darkest chapters of Austrian history, and it is important that tolerance and human dignity are untouchable values of our society. We are all determined by the ÖVP to defend these values precisely in today's international situation, because it is clear that extremism, racism and hetze are in a society of 21st century. ==References====External links== - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e15520	The next item is Mrs Gamon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e15541	Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mr President, Mr Moser! I am speaking today because the Court of Auditors and the financial framework in this area really give rise to concerns about parliamentaryism and democracy in that country. The Court of Auditors is again too low this year and the current costs need to be financed again in the next few years by withdrawal from the reserves. But all of this has an end: The reserves are exhausted at the latest in 2017, possibly as early as next year. As is often the case, the government does not show a far-reaching view, because there is no significant increase in the financial framework. As a result, the Court of Auditors, after re-use of the reserves, comes into such a financial emergency that, in this case, ten audits could no longer be carried out, since the money is simply not there and simply is missing. It is really a financial emergency that arises, and there must be alarm bells for all the colleagues here in the room, because this is really a danger to parliamentarianism. That's really something that all of us here are talking about. (Parliament adopted the legislative This is your Court of Auditors, which is your institution, which also provides material for you to be able to do parliamentary work. Without this tool, we can no longer perform our control function, which is really our task here. This is why the problem is that the Court of Auditors always has new tasks which are also extremely important, but the budget continues to stagnate. If there are more audit tasks in a stagnant budget, the de facto is a budget cut. Fewer reports also mean less parliamentarianism and less political culture. There has been a great article in the online medium “nzz.at” about the coffins of parliamentarianism. There was also said: “Austria has a growing democratic deficit. It will be much harder to overcome than institutional failure." The Court of Auditors has repeatedly shown us this institutional failure. This is extremely important, because without the fingers being laid in the wounds, there will never be a reform. We simply cannot afford to be saved there or the corresponding funds will not be made available. I therefore ask all of you to support a joint request from Mrs Moser and me, because this is about all of us and the work that we, I hope, all want to do. In this context, I would like to say to Mr Pendl, even if he is no longer there: A thank you is important, among other things, because the staff of the Court of Auditors are under an insanity of performance and success and are also under budgetary pressure, but with a thank you you can't buy anything and no further test reports can be made. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e15635	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place, and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e15690	Next speaker: Mr Delegate Dr. Jarolim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e15711	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate! Mrs Colleagues, I believe that we all appreciate the Court of Auditors and its reports extremely much, which is something that always keeps us in the mirror. It is true that we can only implement the things that bring a financial effort in different forms. We also have today the issue that the Constitutional Court President has repeatedly informed on the occasion of the hearing that he needs to be strengthened. I believe that each of us also understands that he needs reinforcement, but it is due to the budgetary situation not so that we can now help him immediately with the entire support he wants. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak.]] However, I would also like to use this opportunity to say that we must certainly improve the Constitutional Court accordingly, since many new instruments have also been introduced. The legal complaint is really something great, which helps us a lot further in legal protection. I am sure you have to give support here. Nor do the asylum procedures get any less; I also assume that you have to re-adjust. The public prosecutorship has always noticed very, very positive and very much hopeful in various areas in recent times – and also before. Whether this is the colleague Brinek, who is constantly taking up the subject of property, whether the colleague is a spruce farmer, who has almost become a television star by means of his broadcasts, or colleague herbs, who has attached animal protection to his flags in particular. I don't know who your hunter is – it's been hunting season now – but I'm nobody, I'm missing the understanding, I wouldn't do that. There are a lot of good hunters, not a question, but what is part of this – I say: Mensdorff-Pouilly – happens, is simply unbearable. I am therefore very pleased that it is the public prosecutor's office, as far as I know, also with the support of the President of the Court of Auditors, who is focusing on the fact that what is happening is not going on. We really need to distinguish between the hunters and those who have nothing to do with hunting. When it comes to gathering small chicks, hendln, pheasants, and putting them in boxes, they are driven up with a dog that is tame and partly to the people, and then you shoot in with scrap, it has nothing to do with hunting at all. I think it's a matter of ending this at last. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] I also welcome another proposal from the Public Prosecutor's Office, and I believe that the President of the Court of Auditors is also a supporter. We have run numerous, very cost-intensive programmes in the various areas – I am now speaking to Luchse. I have no understanding at all that as soon as a population has grown up, one or the other comes and the animal simply shoots and takes away. I therefore welcome the proposal that in future the costs we will incur in the context of compensation law... [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Steinbichler and Mr Rasinger.]] [[Abg. Amon: Don't go to the hunters!]] - That's not the hunters! I think you just have to distinguish! One must distinguish between those who hunt and hege and all this, and those who say: It doesn't matter to me that we're picking up a luck population, we're just going to do it now! – The lady from Linz, I think, is eighty years old; you may not have to go hunting there. But it is important that in future the costs we all pay, namely for the cultivation programme, can be claimed accordingly in the context of compensation for damages. I would like to thank the representatives mentioned here, and we will solve this problem together in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e15772	Mrs Schimanek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e15793	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr President-in-Office of the Council! My dear Mrs. Volksanwalt! Mr. Volksanwälte! At the beginning, I would like to make the request of my colleague Mr Zanger concerning the Court of Auditors: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would like to deal with the public prosecutor's budget, but I would like to make a brief comment on the colleague Fekter in advance – unfortunately now she is no longer in the plenary room. Mrs Colleague, I understand the outrage of the ÖVP women about the statements of the chairperson of the Islamic Religious Community in Austria, Murat Baser, really fully and in terms of content. But this excitement of yours comes by years too late! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We warned about this development years ago. This is not an individual case, but a fundamental tenor in an Islamicly shaped society. And now to say it's an insanity, what's being said comes too late. I think you have to pay much more attention to the current development and not try to develop a hysteria here with individual statements. [[New welcome to the FPÖ.]] But now to the public prosecutor's budget – now I have only a very little time. I would like to thank the public prosecutors for their excellent work and, of course, also the Court of Auditors. For almost 40 years now, the People's Procuratorate has done this work for us as Parliament's instrument, and also the public prosecutor's budget is getting narrower and narrower. We have already heard today that the Court of Auditors is emptying its savings book, and the public prosecutorship is doing so, of course. Each year, €300 000 is taken from the reserves to maintain a running operation. This is really not very courageous and not a far-sighted budgetary policy! That's what I have to say. However, I would like to address two aspects very briefly, once again the extension of the examination competence of the public prosecutor's office, which is also a personal concern to me. We have heard in the committee that the public prosecutorship would be able to comply with this extension of the test competence also with the staff it now has. I would be pleased if the proposal, which lies in the Constitutional Committee, could now also be courageously adopted by the government parties; it would not be a problem. But I would like to refer briefly to the Information Freedom Act. This should involve the People's Procuratorate, resulting in an overbureaucratic effort on the People's Procuratorate. I too will make a request this week that the public prosecutor's office be taken out of there because it is very important not to assign any more tasks to the public prosecutor's office, which she cannot handle. Ladies and gentlemen! We owe it to the public prosecutors to make adequate financial resources available for their work, and we must This is where we are more courageous, because otherwise the budget appropriations for 2017/2018 are exhausted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e15883	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e15949	Mr Volksanwalt spoke on a point of view. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e15972	Mr President. High house! Of course, it is a very relaxing, joy-stimulating fact that we can clearly find a very positive response to our activity in the High House. It has already been said x-time – and have been repeated once again –: As a People's Procuratorate, we, like the Court of Auditors, are an auxiliary body of Parliament and serve Parliament's functions in the control of execution. We're the smallest high organ. It is not even 0.01 percent of the budget used for the purposes of the public prosecutor's office. It has already been pointed out that, in contrast to the Federal Financial Framework Act 2016 until 2019, where €10 259 000 were planned, we now have an estimate of €10 559,000. This could and can be handled by disbanding an amount of €300 000 from the saved reserves. We have a staffing plan of 74 planning posts. That means we got one. We are in a position – and we can prove it – to carry out the tasks performed in a very, very efficient way. The average duration of a complaint is no longer than six weeks. I would also like to thank the fact that, as a constitutional legislator, I am sorry to say “we” – we should draw attention to the fact that the Information Freedom Act does not fit into the People’s Procuratorship at all. But if the public prosecutor's office were not excluded here, we would have to issue at least a thousand decisions a year, because every applicant would have a right to a decision. The People's Procuratorate is not such a thing at all. We would be so overwhelmed by the current establishment plan and thus far removed from a current account, which we can present at present, without a benefit to the Republic. But informal talks with the constitutional speakers make me feel good about having a positive step ahead of us on this path. To sum up and end, I should like to point out once again that the public prosecutor's view is that there is a test gap. We should also have the competence, as well as the Court of Auditors, to be competent in addressing distributed legal entities with our complaints or complaints. In fact, the Federal Railways are currently reacting to our reservations in more or less informal ways. But it makes a difference whether this is almost friendly or whether there is a legal obligation behind it. To sum up, as the current President of the People's Procuratorate, I would like to thank Parliament for the very positive level of cooperation. I am also very grateful that Parliament is also involved in the positive acceptance of the activities of the public prosecutors in the population. I should like to ask you, in the course of the decisions on the Chapter on the Supreme Institutions/Volksanwaltschaft, which is currently under discussion, to give your consent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e16015	Next, Mr Amon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e16037	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Estimated Volksanwälte! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I wanted to replicate Mr Jarolim, who – at least it happened to me – went off with a little undertone on the hunters. I'm not an active hunter, but I'm an audited hunter. [[Intervocations with SPÖ and Greens.]] I also have a lot of friends, who are Waidmen and Waidwives, who really put the thought of Hegen in the center of their activity. I believe that this activity should also be recognized as an important activity. You have to be very careful about this, because it's a narrow hole when you're doing a little very low in criticism. I think that even Mrs. Moser of the Greens would be right, which, as I know, is also a hunter. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Call the FPÖ:Waidmannsheil!]] The Top Institutions budget is always an opportunity to talk about the budget in general. However, I would like to begin by thanking the two top institutions, the Court of Auditors and, of course, the People's Procuratorate, for the Court of Auditors is clearly not always the most pleasant institution for the whole administration – this is in the nature of the fact that there is also criticism. But I do believe that, in particular, under your leadership, Mr Moser, Mr President, as well as your predecessors, I would like to expressly say, it is also possible to position the Court of Auditors as an institution that is undisputed and very much appreciated as Parliament's instrument. I really want to stress that. The same applies to the People's Procuratorate. When the citizens come to our MEPs in speaking hours and we are sometimes also at the end of our Latin, it is very often the public prosecutor's office that gives us a helping hand with regard to the problems that exist in the administrative processes. I would also like to thank you for this. I believe that the budget, which is drawn up and presented at a very difficult time, nevertheless takes into account those areas that are important to us. On the one hand, it is disciplined, but on the other hand, it does not forget to invest in the relevant necessary areas, in economics, science, research, rural areas and families – to name just a few priorities. I believe that this budget is absolutely supportive, and I would ask all Members to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e16085	Mr Zinggl spoke next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e16107	Thank you, Mr President. – I also take a brief position on the public prosecutor’s office. It's all about me, as folks attorney Fichtenbauer has already said, about the test fields. The People's Procuratorate, ladies and gentlemen, examines abuses for the citizens when they are accused of them. It comes into contact with the authorities, tries to roll up the problems, understand the causes and deal with them in this way. The People's Procuratorate is an institution of the Parliament which, in our opinion - I believe we are unanimous in this view - works perfectly, but with a mistake: The error is that since the 1990s some legal entities, some institutions which have or have taken over state tasks, have been subdivided: Railways, electricity plants, road construction, museums, universities and so on. These cannot be examined by the public prosecutors, although they are economically examined by the Court of Auditors. We do not see this because there is also a possibility for the citizens to make their complaints to ensure transparency and thus improvements. For ten years now, we have wanted to see that the breakdowns can also be examined. What does this have to do with the budget? The argument of the government groups was always that this would cost too much or more money and that this would therefore not be possible. Now we should think that there should be enough budget for this transparency, for improving and for the rights of citizens. I have addressed the question to the public prosecutors in the Committee on Budgets, which costs more. And again, as already last year, the information was that taking over the audit tasks of distributed companies would no longer cost. Now I do not see why the government fractions cannot agree to an improvement that no longer costs. On which side are the representatives of the government groups, on the side of the citizens or on the side of a government that might be afraid that there could be too much transparency on the part of the public? Think about it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e16149	Mrs Bayr's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e16170	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the government bench, in the hall, in the gallery and everywhere else! I would also like first of all to address the very important institution of the People's Procuratorate. Public prosecutor Fichtenbauer has already said that it has been moderate, but yet succeeded in raising the budget by 0.8 percent for the coming year – although with the resolution of reserves. However, I still think that the high quality of the audit activity will continue to be guaranteed by the Public Prosecutor's Office. Let me also comment on two contents. On the one hand, we know that since the ratification of the Additional Protocol to the United Nations Convention on Torture, the People's Prosecution has also been the instrument or the central starting and monitoring point for torture. It is the control of all institutions where people are stopped, whether they are asylum centres, nursing homes, psychiatric institutions or the execution of penalties. The Commission, with its unannounced visits and its control, is doing very important preventive work to prevent violence, abuse or exploitation of people in these institutions from taking place from the outset. A specific objective is that this quality of the test should be further enhanced, not only to comply with the OPCAT Convention, but also to comply with the UN Convention on the Rights of the Disabled. I think both are very important. Secondly, I would like to address the international activities of IOI and INTOSAI. Both umbrella organisations of international organisations are located in Vienna. As most of you know, at the end of September this year, the Sustainable Development Goals – the sustainable development goals – were decided by the United Nations. These apply equally to North and South and give us a lot of tasks. I think that both the public prosecutors and the Court of Auditors will play a very important role in Austria, because one will be responsible for individual complaints in the absence of implementation of the SDGs and the other will be very likely in the sense of SDGs in the control of the execution of proper budget management and the efficient use of funds. The two international organisations, which are in Vienna, also have a very important role to play in development policy, namely empowering other institutions – public prosecutors as well as billing courts – elsewhere, on the one hand, and on the other, looking at their activity, on the other, that the quality of examinations and appeal mechanisms is really a good one. In this way, both institutions are a very important tool to ensure that these new development goals, which will lead us by 2030, can also be implemented properly everywhere. Mr President, in this context I would also like to thank you very much for your letter to the members of the Subcommittee on Development and Cooperation with the call to make sure that we are really monitoring and monitoring their implementation properly. Your two institutions are very important aid bodies for us as a control institution, as well as the government. I hope that, not only as a subcommittee on development cooperation, we will be able to implement this agenda here, but also elsewhere, much further, in Austria, too, by 2030. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e16225	Mr Volksanwalt spoke on a point of view. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e16246	Mr President of the National Council, first of all a compliment to you for your intervention before, as far as linguistic care is concerned with people with disabilities is concerned! That's very important. The High House is really a model when it reacts as you have responded. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to focus briefly on international issues. There is also an effect goal, namely: The International Ombudsman Institute should actually reach a number of 172 members by 2017. Only: We already have 175 members, which is really a fine proof of the international reputation of this organization based in Vienna. What are the objectives and challenges of IOI in addition to the training we offer, research and the various regional subsidies? – This is once again the protection of the competences of the ombudsmen around the world, which are at risk there and there due to enlargements and privatisations. This is also the support of various institutions around the world that are under financial pressure, sometimes staff are also reduced, or there are reprisals of a personal nature to ombudsmen. We also want to implement a stronger component of the human rights principle in all the appeal procedures. In this area we also have trainings we develop, and a conference next year in Belfast, which will bring us a bit further. Ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with huge movements of escape. This, of course, also means additional work for the People's Procuratorate, on the one hand in our traditional field of tasks – for example, the increase in asylum procedures or in connection with basic care – but also in the area of the NPM mandate, the protection of human rights, for there will be more deportations. It is very important that the public prosecutors ensure that the deportations are carried out in the same manner as they are permitted. Is there also reflections for our international work in this context? – Yes, because in 2016 we will be presiding over a South-East European NPM network. There, too, one will, of course, focus on issues of human rights protection in relation to the escape movements. I was at an international conference in Belgrade yesterday, where I was also a speaker, and the ombudsmen of the Balkan countries have asked themselves what the challenges of this time in connection with flight and migration on the Western Balkans route are. The aim of the conference, which will only be completed today, is to comply with human rights standards in all countries in terms of accommodation, catering and medical care. Winter is at the doorstep, so of course this is an extremely important question in this whole area. Of course, it is also important to protect particularly vulnerable groups such as children, unaccompanied minors or people with disabilities. There is a commitment that the ombudsmen and public prosecutors throughout the region use all their instruments to ensure the protection of human rights, control, national prevention mechanisms, cooperation with civil society, with parliaments, with the public and various networks. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude by thanking you very much for ensuring a public prosecutor's budget in the international field, as we can do a lot in the global field with a relatively manageable effort. There are about 100 states in our organization. We can contribute to the development of democracy and the rule of law, and we can also make our contribution if there is such an urgent need, as is currently the case in relation to the movement of refugees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e16300	Next, Mr Magistrate. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e16322	Ladies and gentlemen! The budget chapter of the Federal Chancellery also includes the budget of the Data Protection Authority, which is a non-relianceary authority. That wasn't a topic today. The data protection authority is something like the “construction police” of data protection. I think anyone who is a little concerned with the developments in digitalization will agree with me that data protection is becoming increasingly important and that there are more and more data applications. The number of data applications is increasing, but the budget of the data protection authority is not increasing. This leads to a serious control deficit at the end. If you look at the budget figures more closely, you can see that. There is a very important task for the data protection authority, namely the official control procedure. What's this about? – The Authority may, whenever suspected of data leaks exists or when data are stored that are not likely to be stored, arrange for random checks. If one has data security issues to control, these are usually not legal but technical issues. This requires, above all, technicians, IT specialists, but no lawyers. However, the problem of the data protection authority is that it is a “classical” authority, which sees a core area in it – and the core area of the task also consists of: Exhibiting decisions that employ almost exclusively lawyers and no persons who have technical know-how. In principle, this is not a problem, which is not when this technical know-how can be purchased if you need it. That's also exactly the point. That is, if the data protection authority needs technical know-how for this control process, it should buy this technical know-how. - So far, so good! However, if you look further in the budget, you can see that the budget for these external data technicians is practically non-existent. A year ago, the Federal Chancellor told me: Yes, that is so small because the data protection authority can actually access the ICT department of the Federal Chancellery. I again debated this with him in committee. I have said that this is not possible, because the EU's data protection authority must be structurally independent. That was a long speech fight. I have now asked this question in writing again, this time the answer is different – that is, with structural independence one has finally understood: The data protection authority – as it is now called – can buy these works from third parties, from independent experts. Okay. But if you look more closely at the budget, you can see how much money is available for these expenses, i.e. for third-party work. It is an amount of € 2 000. . I don't know who you've ever hired an expert in any field. He'll know: With 2 000 € you will not be able to achieve sustainable performance in any particular area. There is no expert who can draw up an opinion at this price. However, the data protection authority is to purchase all the technical services that are necessary in the course of the current control procedure, for example, of data leaks. This is a lack of control which is imposed on the data protection authority, which is actually unbearable and which shows how to deal with data protection in this country: On Sundays, yes, but when it becomes concrete, the authorities are not given the necessary resources to carry out their tasks in a highly sensitive area. I think this is actually an intolerable abuse, which is so clearly visible in the budget that one has to be ashamed of this budgeting for the Federal Government. If you give an authority a legal order, but you don't financially equip it so that it can also comply with it, this is a reason alone to reject this budget. I hope that you will learn from it next year and ensure that the Data Protection Authority can really fulfil its tasks in these highly sensitive points. It is about things that are important for citizens. An example: If you are stored in an economic information service – these are the ones that then provide information about the credit quality – then exactly these reviews are needed to get out. You don't get a mobile phone contract, sometimes you don't get a rental contract. All of this is the subject of these review procedures. 2 000 € are available to the data protection authority! With this, the data protection authority cannot fulfil its legal tasks! – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e16389	Next, Mrs Mag. Aubauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e16412	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! I can return to the important work of the Volksanwälte. In three ways, it is particularly appreciated: The People's Procuratorate is located in a house that has been built as an example of accessible access, even in order to give many older people seeking help easier access. Secondly, The proportion of women among employees is almost 70 percent, which is exemplary. [[Complementary of the Abg. Worm.]] And the very decisive thing: The People's Procuratorship and its staff are fully concerned about the concerns and needs of older people, and – what's important here – they can also help people in very, very many cases. What's this about? – Older people often experience that their needs are treated subordinately, that, for example, the cost of medical care is unclear, or that necessary assistance is not taken into account taxly, that medical care – especially in rural areas, especially with specialist doctors – is insufficient. Care decisions are sometimes not comprehensible, and the necessary hospice and palliative care is lacking for people at the end of life. This is about people who are often completely alone and completely overwhelmed by the digital world. This is where the People's Procuratorate is doing valuable and very important work. Thank you very much. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The preventive protection of human rights is extremely exemplary – it has already been mentioned today. In the last three years, the public prosecutor's commissions have made around 1,400 unannounced visits to nursing homes, in hospitals, in Psychiatrics. And that is exactly what should benefit those people who sometimes have no one who cares about them who are helpless, who are demented, and who must not be forgotten. People of all generations should and may turn to the People's Procuratorate. An important goal is the formless, free and easy access for all. And with these 9,000 personal contacts – very impressive, impressive! – and many, many written contacts and many speeches, this goal is achieved very, very impressively. What's all this cost? – We speak of 0.01 percent of the total payments of the federal government. Ladies and gentlemen, 0.01 percent of total payments: That's good money, as I mean. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e16471	The next item is the speech by Mr Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e16492	Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Estimated Volksanwälte! From the point of view of our group, I should also like to comment briefly on the Court of Auditors chapter. It is true that the ceiling of the funds available to the Court of Auditors cannot be met with 30.8 million of the actual needs of 32.9 million. The previous speakers have already pointed out that 2.1 million of the reserves have to be used again and the amount of reserves is thus also reduced to 4.6 million. We will have the same discussion next year, I fear, as the government will refer to it again for reasons of economy: We can't, we'd love to, and so on. But I would also like to stress from the point of view of a government group that this in no way has to do with quality. I know that you use all the possibilities you have to save costs, in addition to the savings that are being made. But thanks also for understanding and, above all, for the fact that the activities, the commitment – not only at national, but also at international level – have not declined, but that our Court of Auditors is indeed a model not only in the European area, but for many, many countries – even in the face of these supposedly scarce means that we have – is a model. It is doing excellent work, and it is very important for us Members too. I would therefore like to draw a little attention to the Court of Auditors’ ‘blessness’ in this context. I have made the effort to work through the 599 proposals for administrative reform. The problem is that there are few specific figures in it. You know this yourself: In general terms, this is also the problem we have in communication as a whole. There are so many things you can well express with numbers, where you say, yes, that's actually plausible when you look at the naked number, the naked analysis. In social policy, in political implementation, however, this is not always so easy. You can't always do that one by one, you know that yourself, but still the incentive is important. I mean, one of the most important areas – it's not all good, but it's an important first step – in the educational reform, it's that for the first time it's successful to define all teachers uniformly, to be able to calculate in the Bundesrechenzentrum. I remember very well that a colleague from the ÖVP – when we discussed the Constitutional Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors – asked: Mr President-in-Office of the Council, how many teachers are paying the federal government in no class? And the Court of Auditors, IHS and all the others had to say: We cannot say that because the countries do not tell us. These things belong to the past when we implement this reform. It is indeed – at least in this step – clear once that the one paying also knows where his people he pays are actually employed or not employed. So I think all these measures are very, very important. I know this is the last budget you have to answer, Mr President of the Court of Auditors. All the more thanks for your great commitment to maintaining the budget, also for your successor – no matter who comes. I hope that we can also work together with your successor as well as we have done so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e16532	The next item is the speech by Mr Gahr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e16553	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Estimated Volksanwälte! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The 2016 budget will be implemented indirectly and directly in a number of recommendations and guidelines of the Court of Auditors and will be in line with them. Mr Mayer has already said that there are 599 concrete proposals concerning government administration. It's a matter of dealing with tax money carefully, it's about saving the state. We see that by 2020 – especially in terms of administration and funding – €3.3 billion will be saved, in 2016 alone, it is € 700 million. The budget also sets impulses for the future. It is about pushing down public debt, and the structural deficit of 0.5 percent has been achieved for the third time in a row. As the predecessors have said today, of course the Court of Auditors is also concerned with the budget, but, of course, because of the general budgetary situation, it is also the case that we need to save in all areas. For 2016, €32.92 million is available. Thankfully, over the years the Court of Auditors has economyd sparingly, and, as Mr Mayer has already said, the President has demonstrated on the years of continuity and stability as regards the Court of Auditors' budget. As we have been able to learn from the Committee, the plans will be slightly increased from 304 to 310 in 2016. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Moser.]] Overall, this budget can fulfil the purpose and the mandate and cover the tasks of public financial control as well as the requirements and expectations placed on them. [[Abg. Moser: Then you didn't read the budget!]] In terms of economy and efficiency, the Court of Auditors is an example. I would like to thank President Moser, also for his commitment to the work for the international organization of the INTOSAI invoice courts. But, of course, I think, for the last twelve years – since President Moser is sitting here for the last time in terms of budget today – we can already say that proper, good, prudent and reliable work has been done. It's clear: A budget, which still has a certain surplus, will be handed over, and we will then have to talk about how we can cover and carry out the comprehensive tasks within the framework of the next budgets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e16596	Next, Mr Hechtl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e16617	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Appreciate High House! I would perhaps like to address the budget very briefly, the Federal Finance Framework Act and the Federal Finance Act, in which the Federal Government has defined a sustainable budgetary and economic policy in the long term, a sustainable and long-term budgetary and economic policy on four levels, if one can say this: a consistent continuation of the structural consolidation of public budgets, the continuation of future investments to strengthen the economic location, the continuation of structural reforms in the field of public administration, the promotion of the labour market and education – an important part – and the implementation of a large tax reform and the cost-effective path for funding and administration. Ladies and gentlemen, despite these very high targets, the structural zero deficit will be achieved in 2015 and 2016 – as well as in 2014 – and will keep this zero deficit. If you look at the international situation and if you see Austria compared to the 28 EU countries, you can see that Austria is there well and has brought some milestones, despite this damping budget. Such a milestone is, for example, the tax reform, which amounts to €5.2 billion from 1. January 2016 will be effective and affected by 6.4 million people, by remaining more money in the pocket of money – these 6.4 million people. There is also more resources for active labour market policies, investment and research and development, so that employment can be maintained, but also increased. – These are just a few examples. Now, very briefly, to subheading 5, to the Public Prosecutor's Office's budget. We must equip this important institution with the necessary financial resources so that it can also achieve the benefits it has committed in the objective of effect, even if, ladies and gentlemen, a reserve of €0.3 million must be used to make up for this financial resources. The public prosecutor's estimated payouts for 2016 are rising by 0.8 percent to 10.6 million €, which is 0.01 percent of the total budget of the federal government. Considering the financial budget from 2013 to 2016, a steady increase can be observed. In this connection, I would like to congratulate the People's Procuratorate on their achievements quite cordially, on the services in the house, but also outside the house, and I would like to say that we are very, very proud. I wish the People's Procuratorate all the best for the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e16665	Next, Mr Singer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e16687	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would like to deal with the issue of the Court of Auditors as part of the Chapter on the Supreme Institutions. It has already been mentioned: Around €33 million will be available to the Court of Auditors in 2016. Budget consolidation makes it necessary to save everywhere, therefore also the Court of Auditors. The increase in total expenditure by around €491,000 is therefore to a large extent limited to increasing salaries. 85 percent of the Court’s expenditure is staff expenditure. In the overall view of the Court of Auditors' budget, of course, the introduction of reserves must not be ignored, which has already been mentioned several times. As in previous years, deposits amounting to €2.1 million were also shown in the budget. If the next year – in 2017 – the same amount of deposits is used up, they will no longer be available in 2018. Only, ladies and gentlemen, the term “refunds” has a different meaning for the federal government than for the countries and communities. At the time of the use of the reserve, the Minister of Finance must also finance it; he cannot use existing funds, such as the countries and municipalities. This means that after full use of the reserves, the Minister of Finance will no longer have to finance the Court of Auditors any more than in 2016. I therefore assume that, from 2018 onwards, the Court of Auditors will have at its disposal the funds made available to it in 2016. Ladies and gentlemen, despite the budgetary challenges, the Court of Auditors, as a federal body of the Federal Government, of the countries and municipalities of its constitutional task – examinations and advice – is comprehensive; President Dr. Moser also expressed this in the last performance report accordingly. Ladies and gentlemen, the work of the Court of Auditors is: Some 80 percent of recommendations and proposals for improvement have been implemented and their implementation has been promised accordingly. [[Abg. Moser: The essentials not!]] Dear Ladies and gentlemen, I would not like to conclude by expressing my thanks to the staff of the Court of Auditors for their work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e16726	The President of the Court of Auditors, Dr Moser, spoke on an opinion. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e16748	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Dear Mrs. Volksanstalt! Mr. Volksanwälte! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to start by thanking you very much for the positive feedback I received from you and for the recognition of the Court of Auditors' work. [[President Bures takes over the presidency again.]] The Court of Auditors already acknowledges in its guide that the most important objective is the best possible use of public funds. As the Court of Auditors, we therefore examine whether the resources used are used in a cost-effective, economic, useful and legitimate manner in the sense of sustainable development. It is precisely these standards that the Court of Auditors' staff also set out in the Court of Auditors' budget implementation. In recent years, we have repeatedly pointed out, and repeatedly, that it is essential to be able to finance the strategic tasks in the future in a economical, appropriate way with public funds. This requires that the structures be adapted to the current needs or further developed. That is how the Court of Auditors has dealt with its budget. That has also found your recognition. We have implemented a structural and organisational reform in the Court of Auditors, we have gradually expanded our audit and advisory services, and over the last few years we have repeatedly carried out and over-fulfilled all the savings targets, including those of the Federal Government. We have expanded the output over the input despite budget restrictions. On this occasion, I would like to thank my employees for the most important thing! [[General condolences.]] At the same time, I would like to point out that the transfer of the so-called service providers' contributions to officials' pensions has de facto reduced the operating budget of the Court of Auditors since 2013. After deduction of these service providers' contributions, the Court of Auditors also makes operationally less available to the Federal Financial Framework for 2016 than in 2012, although the increase in salary, structural adjustments and index adjustments in rental payments increase non-taxable fixed costs. These burdens are particularly affecting the Court of Auditors because it is a constitutional obligation to carry out Pragmatisations, and therefore 7.3 percent of the budget is for service providers' contributions, which – thank God – is not given to other top institutions to that extent. As the Court of Auditors has been and is economical, the fact that UG 6's disbursements in the period 2012 to 2014 only increased by 0.9% in the period 2012 to 2014. In the same way, although staff expenditure has been increased by 2.4% on the same side, which is already mentioned, 85 percent of the Court of Auditors' budget. This required a restrictive personnel policy by delaying post-retirements on exits or retirements, the occupation of only around 290 full employment equivalents, despite 323 planning posts, the relocation of several IT projects, the provision of investment, in-house measures, the resolution of departments, the non-multi-acceptance of international audit mandates, savings in training and also the optimization of support processes. The Court of Auditors has been able to save payments in the past and thus save €7 million from this highly efficient and optimised performance of resources. ==References== We will still have a deposit of more than €4 million on December 2015, and in 2016 we will have to use €2.1 million to fulfil our tasks. That is to say, there will also be a residue leftover in 2017, but with its activities – and I would like to point out in this context, and I believe these figures – the employees in the past have created the basis of the corresponding performance of the Court of Auditors in 2014, 2015, 2016 and partly in 2017. After that – which was also mentioned – a corresponding financial security is required, as in the past, one does not want to restrict control activity and in particular to ensure that cross-sectional checks can still be carried out. Today, in the context of this debate, it has been found that cross-sectional checks are of particular importance to you too, and at the same time it is known that these cross-sectional checks are the basis for structural reforms and are also essential for these structural reforms. This also shows the debates in the Court of Auditors, which show debates in plenary, but not only debates in this House, but also the debates in the individual country days. The House has always had a special close relationship with the Court of Auditors, and I am particularly interested in the members of the Committee on the Court of Auditors and in the political groups of the political groups in the Court of Auditors. In this context, I would like to thank you for your open ear, which you have always had for the interests of the Court of Auditors, and that you have always represented or pushed forward the positions of the Court of Auditors. It is therefore my particular concern to thank you for the cooperative and at the same time recognized working climate for the most heartfelt. I would also like to mention that your praise that I will be handed over a well-ordered house in mid-2016 has delighted me very much. However, this thanks also have to be passed on to the staff of the Court of Auditors who have contributed to all my reforms and further development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e16832	The next item is the speech by Mr Sieber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e16853	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! Well, the good news first: The public prosecutor's budget could be increased by 0.8 percent, and with this total budget of € 10.6 million, which includes the resolution of a part of the reserves, the public prosecutor can fully guarantee his activity in the coming year. At this point, I do not want to fail to thank both institutions for their conscious and economical handling of the budget resources, even though we know that the flag rod is not too long in this area. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The activities of the People's Procuratorate are highly appreciated by the population. A survey shows that 71 percent of respondents reported knowing the public prosecutor's office. Nevertheless, efforts are being made to bring the offers of the People's Procuratorate to an even wider population. At present, there are significantly more older men who come with their concern for the public prosecutorship. The aim is also to make women and younger sections of the population more aware of the offers of the public prosecutor's office. The range of topics that can be addressed to the Public Procuratorate is unlikely to be broad: In principle, there are all the problems associated with authorities or with the administration. Among other things – and this list is not comprehensive with Weitem – one can contact for example folk attorney herbs with problems in the areas of social, care and health, youth welfare, even people with disabilities can contact him. People's lawyers, Brinek, have concerns about the administration of justice, the execution of criminal proceedings, the case-law, the prosecutor's office, taxes and fees, and a lot more – with these things they turn to Volunteer Brinek. And at Volksanwalt Fichtenbauer you get advice and representation on issues relating to national defence, agriculture, forestry and nature and environmental protection, and also police, foreign and asylum law is in its field of activity. Ladies and gentlemen, particularly in the field of asylum, it is so that last year more than 700 complaints have been received from the public prosecutor's office. It is expected that in the current situation, the number of cases in which the public prosecutor’s office is intervening will rise significantly. It will be our task to give timely advice on how these challenges can also be met by the public prosecutor's office for the public prosecutor's office. We are happy to be ready for this debate.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e16903	Next, Mrs. Volksanwalt, Dr. Brinek, will speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e16924	Madam President. High house! First of all, let me say thank you to all the speakers for this chapter. Secondly, let me give you a brief discussion on the issues raised – as I said: in short – and finally give you an invitation. They have often talked about the objectives of effectiveness, as we have been able to discuss this in the Committee. This is a governance instrument that has been in place for three years since the budgetary reform. As a modern means, the work and the control focus very much on the outside effect, on what we have achieved with the four above-mentioned impact objectives and also on achieving them further. I would like to comment on the following points: They are close to Parliament's budget service, which is very constructive in dealing with the success of the objectives of the work, and which is confirmive for us. The four objectives are essentially: to increase international activity, as already mentioned, but to maintain the good level of activity as a house of human rights, which will certainly mean further challenges in the future. Another goal is to keep access to the People's Procuratorate as uncomplicated and as direct as possible, as accessible as possible. I would also like to thank you for the suggestion that this should be directed in particular to the boys and to the women who are still under-represented – this is what the statistics show. But not because we want to have equality on all points, but rather in this context, and that is the measure of our work, nobody meets – whether male, female, young or old – and say: Jö, if I had known that, I would have turned to the public prosecutor's office, I didn't know anything about it, I couldn't learn anything! – We do not want to hear such a sentence that we do not hear too often in the future. In this context, I also have a suggestion: Parliament's Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. I think you've met with the black people who come to the public prosecutor's office, that they should also have the opportunity to get in touch with the People's Procuratorate on the way of modern media. Conversely, however, access via e-government, e-entries, all electronic procedures, should not create a two-class society. Someone who moves in this medium like a fish in the water should not benefit from it and not be the one who has the nose in front of people who are not used to it – I think above all of older people or from other cultures, since it must not be forgotten that they have a disadvantage that might even go into economics. Finally, I would like to say that, on the one hand, we invite you, as discussed in the Committee, to participate in the objectives of action, to reflect on new objectives of action or to continue the old ones. Our mailbox, our address is open, we will deal with it in the course of the planning for the next year. On the other hand, a Ceterum censeo on the subject of Sachwalterschaft: The Novelle is on its way, with the significant participation of experts from the People's Procuratorate. We assume that careful examination of improvements will be submitted by the Minister of Justice to Parliament at the beginning of the year or mid-2016. I'm asking for exam. The measure is also here: as little autonomy and self-employment as possible. In other words, it should only serve as a substitute and should not have excessive influence and influence on man's independence. I thank you and ask for your approval of the budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e16975	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Walser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e16997	Madam President. High house! Yeah, we're living in critical times. After the discussions on refugees and so on – especially from the extreme right – we have heard failures against migrants, against the weakest in society, against refugees in particular. A newspaper is published by the Freedom Party in which your colleague Wendelin Mölzer Verlag is and is responsible for the fact that racism is to be restored to court in Austria. [[Abg. Singer: You have an interpretation skill!]] There are a number of objections when you look at what, for example, the documentation archive of the Austrian resistance reports constantly, which is documented in horrors in this newspaper, and I have to say that this is a huge problem for the whole Republic. The occasion for an initiative on our part is now the last edition of “Currently” in which a photo was printed, a photo with children from a kindergarten. [[Call at the ÖVP – towards FPÖ –: Do you like this?]] It is about the 100-year celebration of the kindergarten on the Vorgartenstraße. The original image caption is: “The children celebrated the round birthday festival of their kindergarten with city councillor Christian Oxonite and district councillor Derfler.” [[The speaker keeps the application up to date, on which a black and white photography can be seen.]] [[Call at the FPÖ: They don't even exist in color!]] [[Abg. Peter Wurm: Your parallel society failed!]] There are very, very many children to see. These children express the colorfulness of the Austrian society. And what about the Freedom Party, what does your editor-in-chief – I don't know if he himself is responsible – mean, what does the editor at least think of? – I quote: ‘Kindergarten in Vienna: The racial mix is unmistakable". [[Calls and calls between Green MEPs and FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, right, that's pathetic, it's actually a shame for our house that such people are sitting here responsibly. The problem is, this magazine “Currently” also gets a huge press promotion, almost €50,000, and I think it is up to us to confess that we have not wanted to promote such newspapers in Austria. That's, I think, a point. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Deimek: Ah, that's what it's all about!]] [[Calls and calls between Green MEPs and FPÖ.]] We Greens therefore submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Wheeler: Left hetze!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mölzer.]] [[Abg. Peter Worm: Walser, go to North Korea, has failed!]] [[Call of the Abg. Korun.]] [[Abg. Lausch: He didn't even say a word about the budget!]] [[Abg. Rädler: Left hetze will reap right storm!]] I am seeking to support this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e17202	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e17278	I am no longer able to speak on this subject, so the debate on this subject has ended. I would like to thank the members of the Federal Government, the President of the Court of Auditors and the national lawyers. [[15:18:21]] UG 24: Health
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e17302	We therefore proceed to the negotiation of sub-division 24: Health. First of all, Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e17327	Madam President. Mrs Bundesminister, I welcome you here in our round! Ladies and gentlemen! The health budget, you have to say first, increases by 9 percent in 2016. The Federal Minister has said that the majority will flow to the hospitals. As far as that sounds very good, but now lies, unfortunately, God, as always the hook of course in detail. In this House, we cannot understand in any way how precisely the priorities are set, and this is especially because there is a huge disintegration, especially in the health sector, that countries in particular always have to talk about, which determines the countries. We have seen this in the Committee, too, Mrs Bundesminister, because the answers to the questions I have asked you were that the main association or, in turn, a country is responsible. And this is the very big problem we have here in This federal system in Austria, which, in principle, would be a good one, where – and you have to say the same thing – it can sometimes come to such an extent that the Federal Minister has no more competence or no longer has any skills and can no longer provide real information here. Mrs Bundesminister, your predecessor, who really left you a sniper, has always talked about the health reform he is supposed to have carried out. No one can see anything, there were no administrative simplifications, we already criticized it at that time, of course it was an additional level of administration, and that is what we are now thinking. And the great pride of this health reform, namely these first-time care centres, this PHC, that is the English expression for it, is now supposed to rescue the health system. You yourself have said that you hope that at the end of 2016, a percent of the Austrian population will enjoy whatever is defined now, to be provided in such a primary health care center. First of all, we see this critically in general, because it is, so to speak, the end of the doctor's professional profession. I don't think it's really nice for people to lose the trust doctor, but it's also not particularly recognized and there's hardly any doctors who like to do that either. You said at the time in the committee that we now have to use a lot of cerebral malts to make this attractive to doctors. Today, the APA has come across that the head of the doctor's chamber beats alarm, we have an blatant lack of virgins, who no longer go into the profession, who wander. Of course, these are all the problems that come to us that you might not be able to solve with so much cerebral malt. There are, of course, possibilities that are likely to fail again in the disputes of competence. But I believe that if you are looking for the reason why virgins are moving abroad, you should see what they have better where they don't have with us. There are two essential points, one is a slightly higher salary, but the more essential is that in neighbouring countries the training is much more structured, much more efficient. And right there, I'd mean if you put the lever on. Another question from me was – and, Mrs. Federal Minister, now the criticism is also coming to you – as the implementation of the requirements of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the subject of “Walking at the End of Life” is looking forward to. That would have been €17 million spent together by your resort and the social resort. And that's what you're moving in the direction of countries. So not even in this case there is an opportunity to have a competence. And that's where I tell you, it's a little bit homemade. One is so happy to move this to the countries, one gives up the skills voluntarily – in that case, you are the ones who give skills – but should not be surprised if the countries want to mix with them everywhere. That's the very big problem, as I mean. Therefore, in the field of health – that is quite, very important – it finally needs a real administrative reform and administrative simplification in order to be transparent so that we can have a really proper discussion about future budgets here in the future and not always have to be fed off by the fact that this is not in the competence of the Federal Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e17393	The next item is the speech by Mr Spindelberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e17414	So I would never have believed, colleague Belakovich-Jenewein, that I must give you the right thing, but I think that this federalism debate – I've already done it the last time – should really be taken seriously. As we are now at the budget, I would also like to express my joy that the health budget for 2016 has been increased by €86 million. And that is why I am pleased because it in turn brings an improvement to the population. If the Federal Government has undertaken to launch reforms with this budget, I also welcome this, because reforming means improving for me. When I think of the discussion of the morning, I think we should really stop making things bad and ready. Let us really talk about the positive things in our country! It is really nothing bad if we are already able to achieve a zero deficit for the third time. And I am glad that, as in other countries, we are not able to reduce benefits, but we can be proud that, in the context of the health budget, which is not so lavish, Mrs Minister, it is nevertheless able to increase the performance, as has already been said. This starts with the free gear for young people, who are paid €80 million in the budget, through the extension of the child vaccination programme to the planned health reform, which, among other things, will bring better medical and medical care to all of us, among other things, in rural areas. In other words, the planned realignment of primary care will strengthen the role of domestic doctors and, on the other hand, will make people much better. We want to offer the entire population, regardless of the place of residence, a network that will ensure comprehensive assistance to health concerns, from medical care to therapeutic services to optimal medical care. That is, we want and we will shape the existing structures around the domestic doctors above all, and that is especially important to me, more patient-friendly. An essential part of this reform will also be the introduction of the ELGA Electronic Health Act, which will enable it in the future to improve treatment safety and thereby increase patient safety. As a steirer, I am of course proud that my federal state has a pioneering role because ELGA is already in all Styrian hospitals on the 9th. In December of this year it will be put into operation. Another focus in health policy is child health, which gets a new priority – this is shown by the fact that Federal Minister Oberhauser has also undertaken to expand the children's rehabilitation sites in Austria as well as the children's vaccination programme and the healthy school. But for the implementation of all these ambitious objectives, we need one thing: the full support of all those responsible in the health field, and which I therefore call for very concretely. I think that the planned reforms should focus on patients in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e17469	The next item is Mrs Dr. Mückstein's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e17490	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! I cannot ignore, first of all, the comment made by Mr Rädler of the ÖVP, who, with his interlocutory call 'left hetze', appears to have agreed to such an article and such a title. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Wheeler: Yes!]] Did you understand what's going on? It says: ‘The racial mix is unmistakable.’ You know, your calls are sometimes very funny, but that's unbearable, that's really inconceivable, and that needs an explanation and an excuse! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wheeler.]] I believe that such an issue has absolute priority, even if the budget is discussed. This call was absolutely next door. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Further calls of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Now to the health budget. We are only negotiating a very small part of health expenditure, i.e. € 1 billion. Mr Rädler, can you at least focus on the health debate now? Thank you. [[New condolences with the greens.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] - He didn't want it any different, did he? [[Abg. Lausch: Mrs. Oberlehrer!]] Good. So we are negotiating only € 1 billion, while health expenditure is € 29 billion. If you imagine a standard cake with 24 pieces, then we are not even talking about this one piece, but all the others, the 23 pieces, are distributed, but the parliamentary control and today's debate are completely deprived. I think that is a structural problem, which we should discuss in detail. Heavy times have also arrived in the health sector. The cost-damaging path and the consolidation course are successful on the one hand, but they also lead to massive and painful savings, which mainly affect the health professions and also the patients. In the hospitals above all, those who practice health professions are moaning under the increasing burden of work, and patients are getting more and more to feel the two-class medicine, and more and more private payments are to be made. We think of MRI or CT, where there are long waiting times and the patients therefore also go to private examination, or also to psychotherapy, where there have been rationalizations that have not been removed for a long time. The federal funds, on the other hand, are not saved. On the one hand, I think this is very good because money is going to secure health care. On the other hand, however, there is also an incomprehensible and absolutely unexplained increase in administrative burden. The costs for the staff have increased by 7 percent since 2014, and if you assume as a base 2015, even by 10 percent. Work performance – i.e. I assume, work contracts – has been added to this amount of € 9 million. In any case, we would like to have a precise explanation. In my view, this has nothing to do with what Mr Schelling calls administrative costs. As positive I also see that the dental health of children and young people is promoted. I think this is an important contribution to promoting socially disadvantaged and low-income families and their children. Even as the cash-flow structure fund has been disbursed, it is certainly a positive development. The fact that more money comes into the prevention – we have repeatedly called for this – is certainly also to be seen as positive. We very much welcome the fact that these are children and young people who have problems with addiction, and also the prevention of suicide among children and young people. However, I would like to come to my main criticism now – this has also been addressed by my two previous speakers, but we really agree on it – on the competence jungle and on the various finances in the health care sector. Article 1 also states that this competence jungle has led to parallel structures, to over- and under-supply, barriers to interfaces, intrusive financing flows and associated efficiency loss. Co-ordinated cooperation and mutual coordination are needed. I don't think that's enough. Here the central problem in health care is formulated. We repeatedly encounter high administrative burden, lack of transparency and fragmented competences between social security, federal government, countries and municipalities. In this jungle of competence, I assume, are constantly being reduced by twenty million and is wasting resources. The sufferers are always the patients, because if there is no more money there is saved on the back of the patients. I expect that there will really be a courageous administrative reform and a determined structural adjustment, otherwise, I believe – and am now really convinced – that effective health care management is not possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e17589	Mr Rasinger spoke next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e17610	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! I would like to make the speech a little different, not with the usual sentence that I have 33 years of experience as a doctor, start, but I would like to praise the health care, perhaps also a little critical. [[Rejoicing]] I sat down last Friday in preparation for this meeting and worked through two studies all evening – I don't want you to read it through. One is the famous OECD numbers, and the other is a highly interesting study by the Ministry of Health, 220 pages thick. If you read this carefully, you become more keener in your assessment of health care. And we actually have to say, in the OECD comparison, we are excellent, quite outstanding. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] OECD numbers are a bit double-edged, because according to OECD numbers, breast cancer mortality in Austria is only a little better than the OECD section; it is supposedly worse with us than in Turkey, Greece, Romania and Colombia. So I almost stopped reading, because that's a complete mess, because the data structure is wrong, even in the case of colon cancer. In reality, one must compare with highly industrialized countries that have truly reliable data, and there we are better than Germany, there we are sometimes better than Switzerland. And how long we're alive, that's really great: We now have a life expectancy of 81.2 years. Really great! We're better than the Germans, we beat them by 0.7 years. Not bad! When you read across to the paper of the Ministry of Health, you get that claim that we all live so sick – 20 years we live in sickness, I hear it again and again! –, it's a complete joke. A study of 5 000 households has shown that we have gained 6.6 years of life expectancy since 1990 and 10 good years at the same time. That also confirms what I experience in the ordination: People get new hips, new knees, it's huge what's possible today due to progress. This, I think, should already be put in the foreground, because an essential criterion of health care is: What benefits does it provide? As far as the performance is concerned, I have to say – I am a Vienna house doctor in a not so great, rich area – I am grateful for my patients that we have such a system, because I know systems where that is not possible. Of course I see clouds in the sky. The two-class medicine will always exist, we just have to look at the fact that the share will not be exaggerating, because we really have to look at it. For, in my opinion, health care also means that the ministry has courage to speak unpleasantly, but also to say the truth. The truth is, we're not as expensive as is claimed. According to OECD section, we spend less than the Germans, less than the Swiss. As the third largest country in the EU, we are in second place. I do not want to compare myself with Turkey or with Greece or Romania, which also results in the OECD cut. One thing I have to say a little critically: If I read that the official OECD numbers are 10.1 percent, and in Austria they are always argued by 10.8 percent to 11 percent, then I must say that I would like to have these 1.9 billion, because then I would have been able to regulate this disgrace in palliative medicine where 18 million are needed but nothing goes on for a long time. I'll stay with you. Good health needs motivated employees. We will only motivate them if we give them good working conditions. The fact that 40 percent of young doctors flee Austria is more than worrying. And what makes a doctor happy? – If he can do something, then he can help when he has time to apply it and is not concerned with senseless codings and if he has also learned empathy somewhere else. I'll stay with you. It's a dream profession. The health figures are fantastically good, but still there are clouds in the sky, and we should try to make them a little smaller.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e17673	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e17695	Madam President. Dear Members of the Government! High house! Mr Rasinger, if we get so healthy, I ask myself: Then why do we go to bed so early? [[call to the FPÖ.]] So there's a shear in there somewhere. You also said that our costs are so cheap. There, every citizen can look at bruttamat.at, what he pays of his wages and salary for health. If you enter 1 900 € gross salary, you will see that you are paying 2 700 € in the health care system in the year, but the self retention is not included at all. People are getting older, innovations are coming to the market, costs are rising. We need to take care of how this remains sustainable. And now the budget is not a creative shine that aims at a sustainable effect. To the previously mentioned free gear: Now you can be for or against them, but if you need to build up your own financing logic to finance a certain health care, then that also shows a little where we stand. Mr Belakovich-Jenewein and Mr Mückstein said it right: The Minister of Health is a “kingdom without a country” over a long distance, because the large amounts of money are being transferred by the countries as hospital holders and, of course, also from the cash registers; and if we are often moving here over federalism, we must also say that in the health field we must not leave the cash registers outside, because they are, of course, also a powerful player. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Yes, not anyway!]] The reds and blacks don't like to hear this because it's in their sphere of influence, what's happening in the cash registers, but they also make it complicated and inefficient. There, where the Minister can do something, wherever she wants to do something, in the field of health reform, there are still some measures needed, and we have not seen as much as I wish so far. If we want to set up primary care efficiently, the design possibilities for the doctors must also be flexible and versatile, then doctors must also be able to employ doctors themselves, then the PHCs must be able to operate in a flexible form, then there must be more flexible regulations for the doctors GmbHs, then we must not rely on the fact that cash registers, which are actually the payers, then act as a service provider and there is a functional mixture here, which brings back inefficiency. So if we don't get into health reform, if we hope that things are done by themselves, then people will see higher and higher deductions on their wages and salaries and get lower and lower benefits for them. It can't be! In our opinion, this is a little bit more than that.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e17746	Next word reported: Mr Keck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e17768	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! As an animal protection speaker, I would like to refer primarily to the area of the health budget, which is directly concerned with animal welfare, and I can see that our Minister of Health has been very much committed to a good budget in the field of animal welfare. I would like to add a few specific projects, especially going to what is planned to continue to train and inform the population or to identify for their use in animal welfare. Our successful action “Animal Protection Makes School” will continue to be supported with € 278,000. With the support of the Federal Ministry of Health, the association “Animal Protection Makes School” founded in 2006 has become an Austrian animal welfare centre. The department for animal welfare and animal welfare will be supported by up to € 700 000 in the period 2015 to 2018. Furthermore, the establishment and operation of the coordinating body for dog trainers qualified for animal protection will be supported with €21,000. In addition to scientific expertise, the handling of official veterinary tasks will always require the handling of ethical decision-making situations. Therefore, a funding of €29 706 will be provided for the “Professional Ethics for Official Veterinary Doctors” project. But also the tendering and awarding of the Animal welfare prices to special individuals who are engaged in animal welfare outside the public are to continue to be carried out every two years. The prize money is a total of €15 000 and in turn flows directly through the awarded persons into the animal welfare work. Ladies and gentlemen, you see that the area of animal welfare is highly respected in the Federal Government, and I would like to thank the Federal Minister very much for the fact that this budget has not been reduced, but continues to be for the benefit of the animals.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e17810	Reported as follows: Mrs VOYER (S). — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e17831	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! If one compares the current health budget with 2007, one sees, at that time it was estimated at €665 million in expenditure by the federal government, now we exceed the billion limit for 2016, namely € 1.033 billion, which has been budgeted here – and this is calculated without the additional billion contributions that the countries provide for hospitals and ambulances. I would say that the high-performance health system is in a very sick phase with its billions of costs. Due to the different competences between the federal government and countries and different financial institutions, we now have such parallel structures: We have oversupply, we have partly, unfortunately, undersupply, we have some barriers to the interfaces, intrusive financing flows and, above all, massive efficiency losses, and this is very, very bad. In my view, the continuing fragmented competence over nine federal states makes it almost impossible to consolidate. The long-term financial viability of Austrian health care is currently, as it exists, almost non-reliable. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Health is an administrative ministry without the possibility of enforcement rights in the structures. We believe that what is missing here is clear, serious reforms. The question is: When is a health reform that really deserves its name? [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] For example, in the field of prevention, we are clearly following. Even if Dr. Risinger doesn't appreciate the OECD comparisons very much, they say a lot. For example, there is a newly published OECD report on the vaccination sector. According to this, only 83 percent of the annual population are currently immunised against diphtheria, tetanus, and whooping cough, a value that only India and South Africa undercut. I think that's a number you should look at. For example, the OECD section is 95 percent. The question is, of course, why we are 83 percent. Let's look at another topic: Austria still has the highest hospital reception rate in Europe, which I find extremely interesting, because with 266 hospital redundancies per thousand inhabitants we are top riders among the 34 Member States. By the way, the number of hospital beds is 60 percent higher than the OECD section. For this we are a little behind in the outpatient procedure, I also regret that. Dr. Reisinger also referred to it, but, interestingly, Austria is also in the leading field of medical interventions, namely hip and knee prostheses. So that's where I wonder where that comes from. Are we so poor? One in the hip and the knees? – I do not think that the Austrians are so poorly positioned compared to the Austrians. At the moment, medical work is also a topic. I believe that by creating two legally separate working conditions, the problem is only solved on paper. It is about doctors including emergency doctors – to establish a connection. I mean, there's another litter that doesn't even go a inch far. So I think there's an urgent need to re-adjust. I would like to come to the high-level tasks which should be carried out by the AGES. It is interesting to note that expenditure on the AGES from the Federal Budget 2016 will again fall and the costs will be reduced to the economy. You know, for me personally, animal welfare is a very important aspect, Mr Keck has already mentioned it in advance. The area of animal welfare is of course also located in the Ministry of Health. I do not see it as rosy as the colleague, because in the last budget proposal one could make up with “animal protection school” and a cooperation with VetMed regarding animal husbandry systems in the budget another € 1 million, but for 2016 only € 819 000 are budgeted. This is a tendency compared to the net of the entire health budget, which I would have liked to see different in terms of animal welfare.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e17902	Next, Mrs. Federal Minister, Dr. Oberhauser, spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e17923	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! We have already discussed the health budget in a very detailed manner in the health committee in the various facets. I would like to thank my colleague, Mr R a singer, for his name – and not “Reisinger”, as you have said, Mrs Weigerstorfer, – for the introduction that Dr. Rasinger has chosen, because we all know, as I say, that we depend on the health system, we move in this or we also know the question of how we are structured: The system is as good as the people who work in it. Regarding what Erwin Rasinger said about OECD data and colleague Refuserstorfer concluded – she believes that the health system is no longer eligible for funding in this way –: I'm 33 years active in this system, politically a little shorter or shorter than the Erwin, but since I've been discussing it, it's always said by critics of the publicly funded system that the system is in no way fully financed. Since I – and that is, I think, since 1996 I have had the OECD figures and also the comparison figures in mind, we are always moving on the same expenditure side of the gross domestic product. We are always close to 9.8 per cent to 10 per cent, which represent public health expenditure on gross domestic product. Again come back to Erwin Rasinger: It's the doctors, the nurses, the medical-technical services, midwives, whoever makes up what people feel about this health system – as you said, clouds in the sky, I share that, but –: Most of them show great satisfaction with what the Austrian health system tem for its people. That's why: Erwin, you are absolutely right, domestic doctors, domestic doctors, all the people who work in the sense of patients, including the prevention that is due once in principle a thank you for the fact that this system is the way it is. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] On the question that we are very high in the number of transplants or implantations of hips and knees: I hear the question over and over again and again, and also get questions why it is possible in Austria to get hips without old age restrictions. In many of our neighbours it is said that it no longer pays off, or at the age of 60 you only get one that has a shorter life than that for a boy. We don't have all these restrictions. It will be too questionable if perhaps one or another is made too much, I think, one can never rule out in this system. But a large number of those who have the opportunity to get a hip or a knee also mean that this system is capable of paying it. I think that's something we can really be proud of. Colleague Loacker has predicted what a person with 1,900 € gross earnings paid on health insurance costs. I have now tried at the speed to goog and find what a private health insurance for this period would cost. I didn't succeed, but I know from my own experience that this is much more expensive than the public health system. At the moment when you are seriously ill, or longer, permanently ill, I know that private health insurance is very happy to take back from responsibility and perhaps increase one or another, or perhaps do not insure one or the other. All this doesn't happen to you in public health insurance. That is, you need a new heart, you need a diabetes treatment, you need a new hip or a new knee is something we all pay for with our contributions. The 2 700 € you mentioned is not paid for yourself, but the social health insurance system works in such a way that someone who is just healthy pays for those who are just sick, and vice versa. I think that covers a comprehensive health insurance. There are improvements, there is no question. A system that can't improve, I think, doesn't exist. Erwin Rasinger called it the clouds in the sky. For me personally I see a cloud in the sky on the question – I don't know who said it, I think you were, colleague Mückstein – of MR and CT investigations. There's nothing to ask me so often as: Why did I wait so long for an MR investigation? Why is there the possibility when I say I pay privately in the same institute that I get it? These are things – and here we are in the discussion, who can control what – that social security must control under the contracts with the doctors, and that is something I have now checked several times, and I think quite clearly what we can do to get this system ready. I consider that – of what I am getting right now – for the most clearly felt case of two-class medicine that patients tell me today. That means, that's something I'm sure to put my finger in the wound, because I can't do much more. But that's what I'm gonna do, because I think you have to do something very urgently. [[We welcome the SPÖ as well as Mr Schittenhelm and Mr Ofenauer.]] It has already been said that the health budget is not a giant budget. We've risen a little bit with 1,043 billion €. The benefits have been mentioned in part. It's the gears, it's the cash register structure fund that's back. It's inside. It is the child vaccination program that is being increased. I have not now received an answer to the question of OECD numbers and vaccination, I cannot imagine that. We are praised worldwide for our children's vaccination program and for the measles and mumps-eradiation. We were also repeatedly praised for how well this program works. That is, I'm going to see if we can still figure out where this difference comes from. We have tried to shape the budget in such a way as to make it the best possible way to meet the requirements for keeping the budget. It is a part of my area of animal welfare. It is the diet, the AGES, the GÖG and the FGÖ that are part of my area, which is co-financed. I think it has succeeded in making a balanced budget. We hope that we can achieve the best for the health of Austrians with this budget even next year.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e18013	The next item is Mrs Schittenhelm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e18035	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! For the first time, the budgets systematically set out the results of the budget, i.e. targets. There are also five operational objectives for the health sector and for the health budget. Of course, we all know that to achieve these objectives, we need a high-quality, comprehensive, easily accessible and, above all, affordable health promotion, health care, health care for the entire population. That's already been mentioned today. We are lucky to be able to do so in Austria. I would just like to add that the citizens of our country are also paying their contributions to health insurance. It's not like we're talking about hips and knees that may not be up to them. I should therefore like to refer to the objective of action 2 which is the objective of equality. This provides for equal access for women and men to health care, with a special focus on gender-specific prevention and prevention programmes. According to WHO and the Women's Health Report, it is documented that in order to improve women's and men's health, we also need to strengthen this: on the one hand, in the case of gender prejudices against diseases, such as cardiovascular diseases, which have long been seen as typical men's diseases, where many women have suffered, because they have not been recognized or treated; on the other hand, where the risk of disease is particularly high due to biological factors. In men it is prostate cancer and in women it is breast cancer. Therefore, I am very happy and grateful that this budget has set a major focus, namely on the national breast cancer early detection programme or gender reporting. High house! Efficacy targets – that must be clear to us already, and this is especially the objective of equality – only make sense when appropriate figures are available on participants. We also need this to be calculated. Unfortunately, we still have no figures on the use of breast cancer screenings for the year 2014, which are meaningful, nor about the comparisons of mammographies in 2013. I do not blame the Federal Minister at all, since she was not responsible at that time either. In fact, we need these figures in order to be able to maintain appropriate quality assurance, which is available. But above all, we need to improve the access for all women, whatever age, without red tape barriers. Of course, it needs the increased involvement of the domestic doctors. Estimated Ladies and gentlemen, the following should not be mentioned: The Ministry of Health's budget only accounts for a very small part, which has already been said, of health expenditure in Austria, with total health expenditure of approximately €34.5 billion. That's 45 percent of the total budget, at least €77 billion. The health of citizens is worth it to us. Of course, there are improvements there and there. The doctors know this, the doctors know it, and this is also known by the Federal Minister who explained to us in the committee that she is working very well on it. You, Mrs. Minister, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e18086	Next word reported: Mr Delegate Dr. Karlsböck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e18107	Madam President. Minister! Minister! We go after calculation time: 30 years, 33 years. I've been thinking, I've been in the system for 30 years or maybe even 36 years, depending on the method of calculation. So I also have a certain type of professional experience and can also bring it here. Together with the experiences I've been doing abroad recently – I look at the health systems in those countries I'm coming to – I can only join them and say: Yes, we have a very good system, perhaps not the best in the world, but a very good system. And my concern is to keep this system as it is. In order for it to remain that way, of course, a critical questioning, a critical self-reflection, a questioning of the system according to the status quo and also the willingness to adapt the system to the circumstances of time. Everyone who bears responsibility knows – and we agree – that we are far above the borders with our system and the financing of it. Money is enough, the question is only what it is spent on. We know that huge challenges are to be overcome. The drug costs are rising, also because really great new drugs are on the market. New treatment options are being created. It also changes the behaviour of the patients and also the doctors. The doctors want to work differently today. The profession has become more female. There are other concepts of life. And in patients, other conditions can be seen as they contact the doctor. We have the answers, we often say that. We demand a discharge from hospital hospitals. A discharge of the system could be done by actually creating real group practices, real gesmbHs, finally allowing you the possibility, as one hundred thousand times mentioned, that doctors are allowed to hire doctors, and much more. This would have at least solved the problem of the accessibility and availability of medical services in the established area. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It's basically easy. We have a triangle in our system: the doctors, the hospitals, the patients and the health insurance companies in the middle. The Crane in our system – originally created for a very different purpose than today, because they have to reinvent themselves ever again – I think, unfortunately, that the biggest problem is the health insurance companies, which always serve your political folklore. This means that ideological positions are represented here, such as the state medicine on the one hand – which is being forced at the moment, at least one has the impression – and on the other hand, we have the state of the profession. In my opinion, it is the health insurance companies, especially with their attachment to the ambulatories, that are the biggest evil in this health system. Two examples only: The biggest flop right now is, unfortunately, the free gears. Although we have budgeted € 80 million, we now have access to levels 4 and 5 according to this special classification, which is cost-effective or perhaps even free for some patients, children and young people, but on the other hand, easier forms of misrepresentation are strangled. It's limited, it's quotaed. It is not said that it is simply and simply not approved anymore. There are, we have documented it, chief doctors who say: Dear friend, you're sending me five requests; choose two of them that I'll grant! - That's how it works today. A real scandal, when we talk about too little money in the system, that we have to limit that there is too little money for certain treatments, is that the health insurance companies have outside positions. We speak of 232 million €. And these exteriors are simply and simply much too lax or not required at all. In each company, the managing director, the outsider, and for his company not to close this financial gap for his client, will be released without notice, he commits a serious offense. I ask myself, Mrs Minister – you have a duty of oversight in this regard, you may give us the answer, we have also asked questions – why this is not the case with social health insurance. I'm worried about our health system. It is enough money in the system, it is only used incorrectly.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e18178	Next word reported: Mr Ehmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e18199	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! On the current occasion, I would like to focus briefly on two issues in this budget debate, namely, the antibiotic resistance, which also has budgetary effectiveness in projects and measures. It was recently the world’s antibiotic day, on the 18th century. November. The increase in antibiotic resistance has been pointed out and warned against. I believe that this is a global threat to humans and animals, and therefore it must also be combated globally, jointly and above all in a cross-border manner. In the field of health, there are already several projects and measures, as I mentioned at the outset. However, the reduction in the use of antibiotics is also expected to continue in animal husbandry. We even have examples of success in the poultry sector. Within three years, antibiotic administration could be reduced by 44 percent at the same number of animals. Another topic is the bluetongue disease, which was also taken up by the media. The National Monitoring Programme of the AGES has made some isolated cases known in Styria and Burgenland and has been published by the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The cost will be about €70 000 by the end of the year. For the future year, for 2016, the AGES National Monitoring Programme was set up approximately €150 000 in the budget. There, ladies and gentlemen, we can see how important these budget items are in the framework of prevention and control. Finally, however, I would like to say clearly that the bluetongue disease that has affected cattle in this case is not a danger to humans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e18241	Next word reported: Mr. Dr. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e18263	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the context of the health debate, we have always had to think through very sensitive topics, to discuss them through. In this context, I only recall the difficult problem of pre-implantation diagnostics. All these things are very sensitive because they are in a historical and ethical context. To this end, I would like to refer once again to my colleague, Mr Mückstein, and to my personal surprise at the fact that a Member of this House, Mr Mölzer, does not take the opportunity to create clarity here and bring light into the dark. Mr Mölzer, distance yourself from this statement, right now and now! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It's a necessity. Ladies and gentlemen! This cannot be contradicted by this Parliament. No tax money for spreading racist thoughts! And if a Member is involved in any form, he has the moral duty and the opportunity to clarify this clearly. To you again, Mr Mölzer: Go to this speaker's desk and put You're clear about this situation! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mölzer.]] That is why I would like to ask you personally. [[Abg. Deimek: We have no green dictatorship in Austria! Even if you want one!]] Now, especially on your subject, Mrs. Federal Minister. As far as the health chapter is concerned, I would also like to make some positive preliminary remarks to Mr Spindelberger. Yes, it is right that there is some agreement in some things. There is agreement that we all stand by the fact that we have a health system that in many areas picks people up where they are, which really ensures the best care for all citizens in that country. Ladies and gentlemen, it is also undisputed that there is a need for additional teaching in the veterinary field, in the field of animal disease control et cetera. We know that. That's what we're going to do. However, Mrs Federal Minister, there are things that you and some of your colleagues have done that have not yet been done in the quality that would be desirable: the whole field of precautionary medicine. We are working on this subject. We see that you want to focus here too. I'm just taking diet and exercise here. Precautions must start very early: in the case of children, young people, but also in all age groups. Diet and exercise are a key issue, but also mental health. There is support for this, and there is support in various areas. But the balance in supply is still not guaranteed from our point of view; there we need to catch up. As far as cuts in the AGES amounting to € 2.6 million, Mrs Federal Minister, I cannot understand. What you have told us in the committee is that there is the possibility for the AGES to recover funds from increased fees in the pharmaceutical authorisation, which is correct, but I know that these funds are intended for use within the pharmaceutical sector. This is, unfortunately, the subject that is going to hit here. I do not want to talk about the cutback, I do not want to exaggerate, that is not necessarily the case, but it is the limitation of those sectors that we absolutely need in the future: this is the area of risk research, risk analysis. You said that €235 000 will be used for genetic engineering, risk research, safety and so on. 235 000 € are a drop on the hot stone. For staff costs, there is an increase of €3.2 million over the same period of two years, an increase of 26.6 to 29.8. That's plus 12 percent; the colleague Mückstein has already mentioned that. This has not been explained by you. This is an increase which has not been achieved in any area in this dimension and in the same planning positions. [[Federal Minister Oberhauser shakes his head.]] I looked at this in the report: A planning site is more, one! Take a look at the report – Parliament’s budget service –: A planning site more and within 2 years 3,2 million € more for the central personnel area. I don't think that's proportionate anymore. I say this quite openly and clearly, it is clear that this is not a development that should leave us untouched. At all levels of the state budgets, we are dealing with very difficult financing, and there must also be realistic arguments on the part of officials at all levels in the negotiations, in the discussions of the departments. It must also be said that, from my point of view, it is a problem, because then no free budgets are left to do exactly what we urgently need. Of the reserves, Mrs Federal Minister, you have not yet used anything or little and have not said much about it. We have 63 million € of deposits in your resort, of which about 50 million are in the free budget. It is also possible to start some additional activity from these funds, especially in the area of risk research and in the field of food precautionary policy, because we must certainly move more strongly in the long term than before to the 'polluter pays' principle. Those who contribute to burdens, contaminations, in the economy, on the market, which should also have to pay medium and long-term for the relevant fees, for the mandatory sampling and analysis methods. It cannot remain the case as now, that those who operate environmentally-friendlyally, organic farmers, must prove that their products are not contaminated by things that are used in another area. Mrs Bundesminister, that would be a big concern to me. If you go in this direction, we will support you, just as if you were finally taking up an old project of the former Federal Government, namely to put an Austrian Quality Seal Act on the table as an accompanying measure, so that unfair competition and distortion of competition are finally eliminated by consumer deception. That's, I think, a command of the hour, we could work together, because you would also have our support. I would definitely expect this for the next year to start a common start and a joint initiative here again. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e18323	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Franz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e18345	Madam President. Minister! Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) First of all: We are still doing well in Austria with our health system, and I am pleased that the Minister of Health is going well again, and I would like to wish her all the best for the future. Toi, toi, toi! [[General condolences.]] [[Federal Minister Oberhauser: Thank you!]] I also believe it is important that a ministry such as the Ministry of Health, which unfortunately has few competences, is properly taught and financially well equipped. After all, one can also make politics there, start trends and publish numbers and studies. But more important than all the figures, more important than the budgets that are filled with lifeless numbers, are, of course, the living people who make up the health system. There are two big groups. On the one hand, we have the service providers and on the other hand the service recipients, the patients. I would like to take care of the doctors today because I believe that there is something going on with the medical profession, which is not good for the entire health system. I locate an erosion of the entire profession and a general development that is systematically conditional, namely that one wants to make medical professionals out of the doctors by tying the doctors more and more legal, economic and other corsets in order to bind them up and control them better. This is, I believe, a fundamental problem for the entire health system, which is still good. The performance is still good for the patient, but erosion is there. We have heard this many times today, and the departure of colleagues to Germany is huge. We already have 3 000 doctors trained in Austria in Germany, who have left because of the Austrian conditions. I think there really is a need for action, because otherwise something happens, which touches and possibly even destroys the core of the medical being. It is about the freedom of the doctor and it is about the confidence that patients bring to the doctors. If the health system can no longer guarantee that, then a professional group, namely those who bear the greatest responsibility, is gradually breaking down. What do you mean, ladies and gentlemen? – If the doctors are no longer doctors in the long term, it can only be bad for the patients, for: If confidence in the medical profession, the state of the medical profession is deteriorated, then the patient's confidence in the doctors automatically deteriorates. That is to say, we need to introduce certain conservativeism into the entire health policy, and we must appreciate the professional group which bears the greatest responsibility again. This concerns the general attitude in policy, which concerns health policy, which concerns presentation in the media, including financial policy, budget policy et cetera. If you look at: Who is our doctor? We're just going to someone we trust, or we wouldn't go. We're always shy of the medical officers. I do not want to turn the chief doctors of the cash registers into a bad light now, but of course you prefer to go to his family doctor or to his internist rather than to a chief doctor at the health insurance company, which is a medical officer. That's a fact. That is why I believe that it is very important to return to what doctors do, which basically constitutes medicine – that is essentially the confidence in the medical profession. That is why I would like to make an appeal to all of us and specifically to the Minister of Health, because I believe that there is something to be done by the Ministry of Health: We must and should bring the medical profession back where he used to be. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e18390	Next word reported: Mr Angerer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e18412	Madam President. Minister! Minister! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! We have now taken the budget analysis that in Austria we spend about €35 billion on health care, with annual increases. Nevertheless, the newspapers “Kärnten threatens massive lack of doctors,” nevertheless, the supply especially in rural areas is getting worse. [[Keeping a newspaper high]] I would like to give you three examples, Mrs Minister, which also demonstrates this. Her colleague, Landesratin Prettner in Carinthia, is currently making a new structure plan, making a hospital in Villach a second main hospital at the expense of the regional hospitals, for example the hospital in Spittal. Here beds of 12 percent, 39 beds, are removed, which, of course, is at the disadvantage of the region and also makes stations uneconomical. I do not know whether the Secretary of State feels that way – I am not saying it now, otherwise I will get a proper call for order from the President – who is the man of the operator of this House. Second: The lack of specialist doctors is also reinforced by the fact that five cash offices in the district are deleted. Now this is the second largest district of Austria, as large as Vorarlberg, and here there are checkout points deleted. And in this district, we only have more than two specialists in pediatrics. The third thing: The agricultural mortality is going on and there – the newspapers are titles of it – and it is even greater by making the continuation of house pharmacies more difficult or by restrictions on medical practice. And then I read your budget, and there are targets of effect. In effect Objective 1, you say you want a “quality-secure, comprehensive, easily accessible and financial health (... -) provide care for the entire population. – I say: Perfect. Then: “Why this effect goal?” – “Because of various competences and finances in the health system, parallel structures, over- and under-supply, barriers to interfaces, intrusive financing flows and thus efficiency losses have arisen.” – Mrs. Weigerstorfer has already mentioned it today. You've looked a little stunned, but it's in your paper. Now I'm saying, Okay, problem detected. Then there is the following: “How is this objective pursued?” And there, I have to say honestly, I don't understand what's going on here: ‘Continue ensuring a balanced performance of health insurance institutions, in particular through binding financial objectives agreements; Production of greater transparency in the health system performance – and so on, blablabla – “development of quality assurance systems,...”. So I miss the fact that it says here: Elimination of parallel structures, compensation for over- and under-supply, removal of barriers at interfaces, elimination of opaque funding flows; or, for example, the aggregation of hospitals. Now you will say again, that is not your competence or you are not exclusively competent for it. Nevertheless, we would like to support you, and perhaps you talk to your colleagues in the government that you may be approaching this step of the merger of health insurance institutions, social insurance institutions in Austria. We therefore propose – probably not for the first time and not the last time – that: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e18492	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e18564	Next speaker: Mr Vogl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e18586	Mr Rasinger, I have actually felt the speech very pleasant and positive – almost as always. [[Abg. Rasinger: Always!]] I think it has been very successful on the one hand to address the performance that is really high in our health system without forgetting on the other hand that there are, of course, also problems in health care. And that bothers me so to speak, or that is the criticism of you, Mrs Belakovich-Jenewein: that, as this is typical of your policy, you are constantly calling for reforms, but at the moment when reforms are taking place, you are constantly criticizing them. Some things are included in this budget, we take only the teaching practices: We also planned another € 1 million for next year to finance these teaching practices. Of course, it will be necessary to set up more funds in the following years. We have planned € 4 million for the children's vaccination programme next year. And next year we also budgeted €10 million for the implementation and implementation of ELGA. ELGA is an essential and massive step in our health system. For the first time, the data of the insured will be back with the insured. That is how politics may work: not to create fears that are unwarranted, but really to take action and stand for reforms, also against the counter-wind and also against fears that people have. And because here the primary supply was addressed and it was said that nothing goes on: The budget path also includes a budget of €10 million by 2020. And yes, it's a change of system, we leave things known to us that are familiar to us, and this, of course, creates fears among patients. But we should not stir these up, but we should accompany the patients and explain to you what the advantage of these new systems is – instead of igniting the existing fears and ensuring that reforms are misrepresented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e18623	The next item is the speech by Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e18645	Madam President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Minister, first of all I should like to thank you very much for answering our requests so much again and again. A warm thank you! And second, I'm glad you're okay. I think that this is an essential aspect and something quite necessary in life, that someone after a serious illness is doing quite well again. [[It was in favour of SPÖ and Greens as well as representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Health is the highest good there is. Health expenditure increases by 9 percent. Overall, € 1.043 billion was estimated for health, as has already been mentioned by the Minister of Health. A large part of this sum is intended for the financing of hospitals and is necessary. In 2016, €645.6 million was planned, with €648.4 million in 2015. In order to reduce the cost increase in health care, a new control system for Austrian health care was introduced in 2013. The cornerstones were set out in an Article 15a agreement between the Federal Government and countries. And one, Mrs. Minister, is important to us and must be of great concern to us. I already know that this does not fall exclusively within the competence of your ministry, but with regard to the score value of the individual houses per service – I think I don't need to tell you that, you know it yourself – the facts here are such that a performance-oriented hospital financing system has been introduced in which you get a certain number of points per performance, and the point has a certain value. And here it is, ladies and gentlemen, that not only in Austria, but in the individual federal states, this score is not equal. And I think it must be our desire to adjust this point value. Secondly, Mrs Minister, I should like to say very positively that you have agreed a framework agreement with the pharmaceutical companies and reached a discount of € 125 million. I think that is an important step in the right direction. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e18690	The next item is Mrs Diesner-Wais. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e18711	Madam President. Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My colleague has already mentioned that the costs we find in the proposal amount to about € 1 billion and that most of them go to the hospitals. However, this is still only a small part, because the large part of it have to bear social security and the countries. In Austria, medicine has a long tradition and we can be proud that our doctors and our health system are among the best in the world – that is what the OECD study tells us. We can also happily appreciate that with us everyone, no matter what financial income he has and how old he is, gets the best medical care. This is also reflected in the fact that we have much greater therapeutic success than in other countries, and we are proud of that. [[In the case of the SPÖ and the Agg. Shit helmet.]] But the OECD study also tells us that we are among the countries with the most hospital beds. However, since I am from the rural area, I would also like to point out in particular that it is important for our rural population to be well cared for both in the hospital and in the specialist field and in the home health sector. The practical family doctor is, as it were, the central place. In the government programme, the ÖVP has been very strongly committed to the family doctor as the first point of contact in the health system. The aim must be to have at least one practical doctor in every municipality, including in rural areas. This is mainly about promoting young doctors and motivating them to go to rural areas too. An important area in this context is the training, where we have already taken a step towards the family doctor's area, as well as the red tape reduction, but also the creation of the appropriate infrastructure, because the young doctors and above all doctors have of course other needs. What is still very important to me is a functioning system of pharmacies and house pharmacies, that we get there to ideally equip rural areas even in the future. Finally, I would just like to say: It is necessary to ensure comprehensive health care for our citizens in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e18763	The next item is the speech by Mr Schopf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e18784	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the last few weeks, our health insurance system has been at the heart of debates here in the House. This system was strongly criticized by the NEOS and the Stronach team in particular. I would like to say in this debate that our system – and I have mentioned it in one of my speeches – is really unbeatable. We are not only in Europe, but, as someone has said, rather at the top of the world, and all the studies tell us that we are not just at the top, but we are the top. Our health insurance system is at the forefront! And if we look back to 2004, then there was an article in the “standard” – I looked at it today – in which it was still written, there are 160 000 people in Austria who have no protection in the field of health insurance. Ladies and gentlemen, this is also different today. This is different because there have been initiatives in this respect, initiatives supported by Mr Stöger as Minister of Health and now by Minister Sabine Oberhauser. It is true today that all those people who have their proper residence in Austria are insured. And, as I said, this is unique, and we should be proud of it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] All insured persons, without taking risks, have the same right from the first day on to all medically necessary benefits, and this is important in this respect – regardless of price and regardless of income. This is, in any case, unique, and this is a value that is very important to us social democrats and social democrats. Ladies and gentlemen! Who can remember: Before the introduction of the need-oriented minimum guarantee, there was the so-called social assistance health certificate. The health certificate had a different color from normal health certificates. The problem was: If a social assistance worker was sitting in the waiting room with a doctor, not only the colleague who worked at the doctor's office – the doctor sounds like – but also all those who waited there, up to the rescue staff who carried out the medical transport, had all the other patients: This is one who receives social assistance, one that has no financial resources available. Ladies and gentlemen! It is therefore important to us Social Democrats that we no longer have these health certificates that we have an e-card today in this country, which is also unique. This e-card is the same for everyone. And if in the budget this e-card is again budgeted with a sum of 44.5 million, that's a really great, great performance. Mrs. Minister, that's a great thing! A warm thank you in the name of all insured persons for this e-card and for the fact that it exists in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e18835	The next item is the speech by Mr Hoefinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e18857	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Great consistency across all political groups with regard to the quality of Austrian health care! Thank you very much for showing us here that we can pull together on a line over long distances. I think this is very important for the further development of the health system, but it is also important for the safety of people in this country to know that they are well cared for, well accompanied and we are also concerned about the future of how we can further develop this entire health system. As far as the budget is concerned, which has been mentioned more often today, I also think that we can give our support to this calm conscience. I also invite the opposition parties to join in. Let me, however, take up a subject which is also very important to me personally and which I am speaking to from time to time, namely the work in our childhood and youth psychiatric system. We still have a huge development potential here. This is a very delicate, important area. We know carefully that there are over 250 000 children and young people in need of advice or treatment in Austria. And it is so that these cases are usually well treated – or, however, we know from practice, only after many years can really be given psychiatric care and then a treatment. I think that this is a way of improving and implementing. It is not necessary that some of the diseases that come to the light of the day are then partly left out of ignorance, partly out of lack of expertise, or overlooked. I think we should take important further steps here. From the statistics we know that there are many stationary places missing here, all over Austria. It could also be the double number of places, at beds we could offer. Furthermore, we also know that in three federal states there is no way to be treated as regards the cash offices – even here, I think, it would be high time to close these gaps – and that unfortunately there is no single child psychiatric station for children under the age of ten, where there is a mother-child unit. And as far as the specialists in this field and their training are concerned, we should consider. Mrs Bundesminister, I know you are working very intensively on this, and we can only support it. In fact, the specialists are also under-occupied in their number. So there should be a specialist upgrade here, and also the doubling of the currently about 160 specialists would be urgently necessary. In this sense, I would ask all the parties here in the House to do an intensive job so that we can better deal with this problem in the future, and may you also ask for your approval of this budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e18897	The next item is the report by Mr Knes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e18918	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! High house! – I have forgotten Mr Pilz, excuse me. [[Call at the SPÖ: You forgot Mr. Pilz!]] [[Abg. Pilz stands at the government bank and talks with Federal Minister Brandstetter.]] [[Call the SPÖ: Mr. Pilz, very rude!]] [[Abg. Pilz goes to his seat.]] As mentioned several times, the health budget 2016 has been increased by €86 million, talking about saying and writing 9 percent. But it has also been efficiently saved internally in the department, that of the Minister of the Interior, and cuts have been made to a total of around €5 million in favour of measures that are certainly of great value to all of us in the future. Of course, this is different from what our colleague, Mr Loacker, has always called on NEOS to privatise all health insurance, I would like to show by example. We have launched a pilot project for 2016 in a paper group, called Mondi, here in Austria, a total of 2,500 employees and nine locations, and together with the Ministry of Health and the FGÖ, namely the Health Austria Fund. We have a clear goal as a group, but also for our employees. We put this on three pillars. The one pillar is the evaluation: What have we achieved in the field of occupational health promotion, and what measures have already been taken? The second part is quite essential: In the company, certain persons – apprentices, as well as employees – are also trained for preventive measures, with a university degree, and these are to continue to pursue this health concept on a sustainable basis. And the third pillar is then to deduce the measures, the concrete way in which we will deal with this preventive measure of occupational health promotion in our companies. What do I want to say? – We too, of course, are behind it, but above all we want to call on our industrial zones, but also all employers, to really work for occupational health promotion, because it is worth double. This is a great instrument in that healthy people also hurt less – this is also statistically proven. Healthy people also live longer – this is also a novel from this concept. But what is added – and this is the win-win situation for all companies in Austria –: They are more motivated and powerful. I think that is our goal, for which we should also act together. In this context, I would like to thank our Minister, who always has an open ear and also supports us in this preventive measure, but, once again, without using much money, namely in the prevention of occupational health promotion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e18974	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Mulder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e18996	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, I am particularly pleased that this budget, and in particular this health budget, is socially balanced. In times of strained households, it is not natural for certain health services to be further expanded and precisely to those who need them. It has already been mentioned today, but I would like to mention once again the free gears for children and young people and the €80 million that are provided for them, because this has been especially appreciated in the media. From my time as a teacher, I know that stigmatizations due to externalities in young people often cause very great disadvantages. The cost of € 6 000 to € 8 000 is not cosmetic, but that is a social question. The introduction of the free gear prevents social stigmatization as well as sustainable investment in the health of children and young people. This is a new performance that benefits between 20 000 and 30 000 young people. From 2016 onwards, €80 million will be spent per year. The dentist decides on the need for medical treatment, which covers large and very high medical needs. I would also be very pleased if Stages 3 and 2 – limitable treatment needs and lower treatment requirements – could also be covered, but in view of the possibilities, the current solution is also proportionate and a great improvement. In this sense, I am very pleased, for social and health reasons, that the regulation on free gears has succeeded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e19038	The next item is Mrs Yılmaz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e19059	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to highlight something positive in the health sector, namely that the coalition parties for the current legislative period have undertaken the development of a national addiction prevention strategy and addiction strategy involving alcohol disease and substantial breeding. On the basis of the results of a large-scale Delphi study focusing on children and young people, an expert council was then set up by the Minister to work out their implementation. During the budgetary deliberations, Mrs. Minister was pleased to learn that the work had been completed and that she intended to present it to the Council of Ministers this year. The addiction strategy, ladies and gentlemen, is a framework concept that integrates the addiction concepts in most federal states and sets out the perspective for an Austrian-wide, coherent approach. Ladies and gentlemen, I also do not want to mention the following: Mr Mölzer, what you have done in your newspaper is not a cavalier offence! They insulted thousands of children and parents. Have the courage to prepare and apologise, and don't fry behind your immunity! That was pathetic!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e19100	President. — The debate is closed. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e19123	Madam President. I will try to answer some of the questions raised in the course of the debate. Mr Pirklhuber and, I believe, Mr Mückstein have also asked questions about the increase in the staff budget. There are two figures for this: €1.6 million in the financing budget and €3.4 million in the earnings budget. I think you are referring to the budget. This includes discharges, holiday provisions and all these things, and you know that due to an ECJ judgment, we have, of course, different reimbursement costs, as far as redundancies for officials or contract staff are concerned; therefore, the increase. For the salary increase of 1.3 percent, which was announced in 2016, we must thank both the trade union and Sonja Steßl, who participated in the negotiations, for the fact that a salary increase has been achieved for the employees of the resorts in times like this. It has also taken place the occupation of free planning sites – we had free planning posts – and this will now also be financially effective in the next budget. We have four additional planning points in 2016. You know how close the plan we have been given by the Minister of Finance. But we urgently need posts in terms of economy and planning, and have re-occupied there. These are the costs that become effective. It also asked for the increase in third-party financing: These are ELGA costs. In principle, there are € 10 million for the ELGA start. We have ELGA GmbH, the health service provider index, the opposition agency, the access portal, the authorisation system, the ombudsman’s office – everything we finance where the money is inside. There the third funds have increased – I look at the budget always going to what changed last year, and that is what I noticed – but there are clearly ELGA costs inside. Now, very briefly, Mr Höfinger, who has re-examined the child and youth psychiatric system. You said it: We have tried, as part of the training, to explain children's and young people's psychiatry and even the psychiatry as a defect in order to see that we come to enough specialist doctors. It is true that the beds are only under construction in the various federal states. They have said that the question of cash-contracting bodies must be resolved. It is true, however, that we hardly find doctors for the hospitals, let alone doctors who go outside with a cash contract. This will only be better if we manage to look at the training situation. Nevertheless, this is, of course, a plan. To Mr Doppler, who expressed praise on the question of the framework agreement on pharmaceuticals: I don't deserve this praise. In principle, we have agreed on a draft law alone, if the two parties – social security and the pharmaceutical industry – do not agree. That is to say, the praise is in principle due to the two negotiators – the pharmaceutical industry and also the main association – who have conducted these negotiations very efficiently. Now I hope that all 120 pharmaceutical companies will still sign this contract in good time, then the law we continue to have in the drawer can remain in it. Mr Angerer referred to the closure of the hospital in Spittal and the question of the centre of the services. There you can see how the location determines the different position. I do not know if it was Mrs Belakovich, but someone has said that we Austrians are world champions in hospital, we have too many hospital beds. – I don’t know, this statement came from somewhere. - Yeah, that's right. What we're trying to do is structure the beds qualitatively. This means that they are centred, for which good journeys with the rescue, possibly also by helicopter transport, are being purchased, but there the services are guaranteed quality, i.e., also in sufficient number. On the question of what happens to Hospital Spittal/Drau: It may well be that there, I say now, ambulances are preserved, which allow for an initial supply, but qualitative care is then carried out on site. That is to say, the objectives of action you have addressed, namely to see how we get down in terms of the number of hospital beds, how we put the beds quality-secured, that is what you are now talking about, when you say that the hospital in Spittal/Drau may have fallen victim to this quality assurance. [[Abg. Anger: It is reduced by standard!]] In conclusion, Mr Franz, who has insisted very strongly not to maim and uphold the reputation of the doctors: Dear colleague Franz, if you look at the poll values of our politicians and compare them with those of the doctors, I can tell you: Even if we wanted it – which is of course not the case – we would not have succeeded in reducing the reputation of doctors or health professionals; they are still absolutely on top, while we are politicians at the bottom of the scale. Maybe we should think about it.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e19184	I am no longer in the field of health. This explains the outcome of the deliberations. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister. [[16:49:05]] UG 13: Justice
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e19209	We come to the negotiation of Division 13: Justice. First of all, Mr Magistrate. Stefan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e19233	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Before I begin my remarks on the judicial budget, I will take a brief look at Mr Walser's request to remove the press promotion for the magazine “Currently” because this is a lesson of green attitude for me. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walser.]] Under the cover “Anti-racism” the restriction of freedom of expression and press, i.e. fundamental rights, is operated. [[Abg. Walser: Racist hetze is not one of the fundamental rights!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinhauser.]] There are clear legal regulations in the Press Promotion Act and in the Public Service Promotion Act when such promotions are to be recognized. [[Abg. Walser: Apologize for the photo and for this text!]] But that's not enough for the greens. For the Greens, it must be “exploratory” racism, and everyone who deals with a little bit of law and justice knows that “evidently” is an arbitrary concept. And we all know, in turn, that arbitrariness is the opposite of rule of law. That is clearly what you want, Mr Walser. But we don't want this, we reject it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Walser: The photo...!]] [[Abg. Brosz: Do you reject what he fabricated from Mölzer?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwentner.]] But now to the judicial budget. Justice is overfinanced in Austria by court fees. It is a special feature that the activities of the judicial system are overfinanced by very high court fees by 110 percent, provided that the judicial guards are left out. I also welcome the fact that the Ministry of Justice is working to search through court fees and monitor where court fees make access to law difficult. We welcome this trend, including this novel, in principle and believe that it should also be taken further to search through court fees. For example, it must be borne in mind that the basic book registration fee currently takes € 700 million – 80 percent of the justice budget! We also know that fees in themselves should always be a counter-performance to a state's performance, but this is clearly not in any relation here, with all due respect for the fact that the basic book works very well with us – probably uniquely well functioning worldwide. Nevertheless, this does not stand in any relation. I know now the counter-argument will come: We need money, the budget is already overburdened anyway!, but I do not think that this can be the right approach to introduce a hidden tax and disbursement from people instead of introducing and saying: Well, that's actually a tax! – A fee is a consideration for a performance and must not be a hidden tax, but this is the case here. We should have this discussion. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] When we talk about justice, it is a point that always bothers me very much, the close bodies in the judicial system. We do not know exactly where these really come from when files or file components appear in the public – not only in media, but also otherwise it always happens that cabaretists can make fun of them or anything else. I think this is a very terrible state, which is very much attacking the credibility of the judicial system and which should be simple and simply not and should not be. I know that there are efforts, too, I can only imagine that one does not become a master and does not find a system that prevents this. This would be very important to improve the credibility of justice. Total: The rule of law still has a very high standard. We must ensure that this standard is maintained, some of it may be improved. We have to step in where there is an overregulation. For example, in the whole family jurisdiction, we currently have an overload because so many activities are involved. A nationalization would do us good to reduce this to a certain extent and to make it possible for judges to carry out their activity properly in reality – of course, they do it properly, but to exercise it in such a way that they are not at the limit of overload. Access to law must therefore remain easy, and court fees must be revised because this is important for the quality of the rule of law and therefore also for the quality of life of the Austrians.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e19347	Next, Mrs Mag. Steinacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e19368	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Appreciate fellow citizens! “I’m always setting new goals and don’t worry too much about the past.” – This is a quote from Pierluigi Collina – you all know him – one of the world’s best referees. Not so much to look back and shape the future, that is also the goal of this budget. With the presentation of this judicial budget, we have five very specific objectives. First: We want to secure legal certainty and legal peace. Secondly, Access to the services of jurisdiction must be ensured. Thirdly, We want a fair and independent management of the courts and decisions of procedures in an appropriate duration. Fourth: Orderly enforcement and enforcement by the judicial administration shall be ensured. Fifth, you open a bottle Decisions of enforcement shall be implemented effectively. At the same time, the prevention of relapse and reintegration must be strengthened. Ladies and gentlemen, let me say something in depth to the fifth goal: I think it is very important that the funding of the association NEUSTART is ensured in this budget, which is very helpful to the criminal in reintegration and resocialisation. The transfer payments for the associations of Sachwaltern and the patient attorneyship are also increased – also a very important measure. I would like to come to the execution of sanctions and measures in depth: That is where we are going with this budget. The Forensic Center in Asten has already been extended and the social therapeutic concept implemented. I think it serves as a model for the implementation of measures. You know: Action is the accommodation of dangerous criminals and perpetrators who cannot be condemned for lack of guilt. There, of course, one is always on the border with health policy and medicine. In the future, measures for legal and human rights-compliant arrests will also be provided for in the Linz Judicial Institute in accordance with this model. We need a total of 600 to 650 places in this area. I believe that this is a very essential step which the Federal Minister, with his re-order in this area, has taken in order to get closer to this goal of decent accommodation, including this criminal. Overall, an extension will be necessary due to the overscheduling of judicial institutions, and this will also be provided for by law. In particular, in the direction of the juvenile offenders, I am also pleased that the Federal Minister is planning to create a youth detention centre in Gerasdorf, with improvement measures, especially in the field of training and improved employment opportunities for young people. All these measures support this goal in a sustainable way. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that, as a whole, we have been able to discuss the budget sufficiently in committee, the Minister of Finance is good with the requirements of the Minister for Finance Since all the important projects and budget targets I mentioned earlier can be achieved in a sustainable and good way. No planning positions are shortened among judges and prosecutors. It is ensured that there are no human bottlenecks and therefore no extended procedures. Overall, the level of coverage in the judicial sector – Mr Stefan just mentioned – is 78.1 percent due to court fees. I think that justice is a pioneer in this area too. Of course, court fees are a matter, but I think that today's Council of Ministers' decision on the Novelle of the Law on Court Fees with relief and, above all, fairness in the areas of execution and insolvency proceedings, in company book surveys, in the case of maintenance and employment matters, is very much facilitated by the reduction of fees to citizens' access to law in the future. The goals are set, the course is set – Mr Minister, it is continuing to implement! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e19448	Next, Mr Magistrate. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e19470	Mr. Justice Minister! We have already discussed it in the Committee: The question arises as to how meaningful this budget debate is at all. They also admitted it: The figures you present in the budget have nothing to do with those figures that actually make up the deposits and payouts this year. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] It is striking that in recent years we have had huge variations in the payments and payouts in the judicial budget, between 10 and 20 percent. Nowhere are these deviations the size of the judicial budget. This means that the impression arises that payments and deposits are deliberately placed below the actual values. I also referred to this in the Committee on Budgets, and you said: That's right, but that's what the Minister of Finance tells me. Yes, it is not quite wrong that this is decided in the Federal Financial Framework Act, but the Federal Financial Framework Act should not actually lead to a violation of the principle of budgetary truth, because the Federal Financial Framework Act should have been amended today because, as you know, we will have other revenue and other expenditure in 2016. In fact, we have at least partially amended this Federal Financial Framework Act in item 5 of the agenda. This process leads us to discuss a budget that has little to do with actual expenditure and little to do with actual revenue. And sufferers are third parties who receive funding from the Ministry of Justice, but only receive these financing commitments because the actual revenue and actual expenditure are not yet calculated. One of these associations that receives this conditional commitment is NEWSTART. The association NEWSTART has a legal mandate for probation aid, receives a conditional financing commitment, so you don't know if you can actually carry out the legal tasks with this money, because this budget practice prevails in your ministry. Now there has been protest, and you have said that in the worst case, we are solving setbacks. But it has nothing to do with budget truth. But what we have decided today – and I cannot spare you this – is the Ministry of Finance's grip on the judicial budget. The EUR 40 million will be deducted from the legal budget and transferred to the normal budget or, better said, will be disbanded, and this is questionable because these reserves are formed by the payment of rights-seekers' fees and then the payment of these fees. In Austria, we have a situation where the fee payer, where the lawyer pays more fees than the courts actually cost. They generated a surplus of € 189 million with excessive fees in 2014. And a fee is against actual performance. This practice that the Minister of Finance is taking up the legal protection of the applicant by way of court fees, in order to reorganise the budget, is an immeasurable, indeed a double monsterity, because, at the same time, the judicial system has too little money to carry out its tasks. In this context, I would like to give you a key word: Penalty. Concrete: It was the Anti-Folter Committee at the Stein Court of Justice and found that there were nine hours of psychiatric care for 800 inmates. That's an unsustainable state on and off. Two days ago, the head of the judicial body told you through the press that he knew these problems, but for improvement measures, the money is currently missing. Summary: On the one hand, the fee payers are asked to pay for the cash desk via the judicial budget and have to pay more than the courts actually cost. On the other hand, the Minister of Finance is coming, bringing back the judicial budget in order to reorganise his budget. And in the end, the judicial system, namely the execution of the sentence, lacks the money to resolve abuses in criminal enforcement facilities. On the abuses – the situation is clear, we have discussed them so often publicly –: Due to lack of resources, we have long inclusion periods, less employment, and this leads to a higher aggressive potential. This, in turn, makes resocialisation more difficult. – All of this is opposed to a high-quality penalty! Now you can say: What interest do the Austrians have in the execution of the sentence? – This can easily be summarized with a sentence: Every Austrian, regardless of the fact that one says out of a situation, that there should also be a minimum of quality standards in a prison, has an interest in the fact that those who have been released from prison also receive those instruments for resocialisation, which then result in the likelihood of relapse being lower. Whenever there is a risk of imprisonment and a likelihood of relapse: Mr. Justice Minister, after "Charlie Hebdo" and after the attacks of Paris, constant reflections on fundamental rights interventions are constantly being made. It is thought about reintroducing data storage. You want to hang house arrest preventively. And, and, and so. But where the hotspots are in Austria, namely in the prisons where the returnees sit from Syria, people who have moved into the jihad and have already returned, there are no more cents for projects. There, where the greatest danger is that small criminals will be recruited, where people who have already been in jihad can reorganize, one looks away. But where it is loud, and where you may get the quick applause, there are not enough interior ministers and justice ministers to stand in the way with demands. But where there is an urgent need to do something, where you can go into the deradi. There is no single cent left to go to the point where preventive measures should be put in place. Mr Federal Minister, I asked you if the judicial budget would be increased in the area of enforcement. Your answer was: No, no, no, I asked months ago if there was more money for deradisation projects in prison. The answer was: No, no, no, This must be combated from the existing judicial budget! But we know – and now we come back to what the Head of the Stein Penal Detention Centre said – that the existing judicial budget is not enough to meet all the needs that this execution needs. Mr. Justice Minister, I have to tell you one thing: They are one who shows a great deal of understanding and brings sensitivity to problems in justice and also in criminal execution. I do not understand, however, that at the end of the year, the Minister of Finance will be left to €40 million and at the same time the problems will not be solved in his own department. I lack any understanding for that. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That's where you need to negotiate harder. I know you may not have the lobby behind you in the ÖVP, but you have a competence. Throw them into the scales, the arguments are on your side! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e19567	Next word: Mr. Dr. Jarolim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e19588	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr Steinhauser, that was a little bit destructive now. Of course, we have great problems, and this is what we need to solve, but we must not forget to point out that there are many solutions in different areas. And if it has just been decided today to reduce the fees we have long called for in the area of family rights, and this is now being carried out, then we must take this into account. This is not without a plan, but at the end of the day it is implemented. Of course, there are problems with what the criminal institutions are doing. It must not be forgotten, however, that at the time, under Minister of Justice Böhmdorfer – which has been a long time ago, but that has been sustainable – we have experienced the destruction of the Jugendgerichtshof, which has caused immeasurable damage, and we are still waging it now. So I would like to see the need for sensitive actions taken here very much. The fact that there are infections in the execution facilities is known to all of us. Of course, you have to be very strong there. And I think it is also important to be aware that the danger of radicalisation is not caused by refugees, but by people who are already in our country in the second, partly third generation and who have been radicalised in schools and also in the criminal enforcement institutions. And you have to go in there and sit down. I think you often focus on the one because you somehow know in the subconscious that there are bigger difficulties elsewhere, and there you look away. The funding for the association NEUSTART could be saved. I would like to thank you very much for this. As far as the resolution of reserves is concerned, it does not mean, at least according to my understanding, that money is returned to the Minister of Finance, but rather that it is It is clear that the existing amounts are actually being used for the ministry of its own. In this way, NEWSTART has also been financed. It is to be said to the collective complaints: There is another way of saving justice. The issue of collective complaints is addressed in January. I hope that we all follow this so seriously that a good goal is really achieved soon. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e19634	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e19655	Mr President. Federal Minister! Where Mr Jarolim is right, it is very sad that the Jugendgerichtshof no longer exists. There could be some ideas that I have already put forward: for example, that a single district court should be entrusted with the crimes of the youth. This would probably even be cost-neutral and would be a sensible approach. Where he is not right, it is that Mr. Albert Steinhauser has presented something destructive here. He is quite right in what he said, because it is a fact that we are discussing a judicial budget here, which does not really make it possible to discuss it, because we already know that what is in it will not stop at the end. This is the experience of recent years. Again, there are figures that will simply not match the end of the truth, so it is difficult to discuss a budget that we already know is not going to be like that. The fact is, something else will come out, and this is certainly not a reasonable budget planning, nor does it allow a meaningful budget discussion in this context. Mr Federal Minister, you have said, in part, that your hands are bound. I understand this to a certain extent, and I also understand to some extent that the Minister of Finance says he is looking forward to more revenue from your department. Nevertheless, it is absurd – and we have already heard this twice – that excessive high court fees are being tried to clean up the general budget or at least to help with its recovery. But it is all the more absurd when the need for reform is equally massive in your own home. Especially things that we have heard from the Stein Justice Court, but also from many other areas, show that we would need budgetary resources, such as for example for a Jugendgerichtshof, however we may design it. This would require budgetary resources, and then it would make no sense for you, Mr Justice Minister, to make available the more revenue you have in your home to the general budget. What I would have liked is that you go more closely into the negotiations and say: No, I need a reform myself, and that is why I need these financial resources. Reform is also needed as regards the implementation of measures. You have proposed a concept. I asked you in the committee how the expenditure will look about. You said I should look at the concept. However, what would have been important to me in this regard is that we learn exactly what points you will make of the financial resources, because it makes a significant difference where I start and say where exactly how much money I put into the reform of the implementation of the measures. A concept is I am quite right in person, the question is where the great financial resources will flow in. Last but not least, we discussed this in the Committee: There's already a massive problem. It is simply about the fact that the budgetary reality is not given that we have virtually personnel costs inside the budget with an actual effort. You said you were acting there within the framework of the laws. You are right, but that is why I can still criticise this law, because it simply has nothing to do with budget truth that you are outposting things, only so that at the end of the day you do not have to prove the personnel costs accordingly. That is why I will continue to criticize this, because it has nothing to do with budgetary truth. Mr Federal Minister, even if we do not meet in the budget, I must nevertheless say that as far as the other areas are concerned, I am very glad that you are there, because whenever measures are proposed from the party you brought to the Ministry of Justice, which are clearly unwarranted, at least you say – apart from data storage, there are also other opinions, but with all other measures –: Yeah, maybe we'll discuss it in peace. You did that again yesterday, instead of simply proposing any illegal measures. I'm glad you're here. We're not going to get together with the budget anymore.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e19713	The next item is the speech by Mrs Dr Karl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e19735	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ensuring legal certainty and legal peace is one of the central tasks of our state. It is therefore very welcome that this is one of the objectives of the judicial system. However, legal certainty and legal peace can only be ensured if the legal system is regularly adjusted and adapted and revised according to the needs of society. Therefore, the reform of property rights, the Youth Court Act, the implementation of measures and legal measures to strengthen the rights of victims and accused persons are referred to as concrete reform projects to achieve this objective. In order to ensure legal certainty and legal peace, the population must also have confidence in a functioning judicial system. This is not least the objective of action 3, which aims at objective, fair and independent management and decision-making of proceedings by courts and prosecutors in an appropriate duration. In order to be able to achieve all these objectives, it is necessary to ensure the organisational, human and material conditions for orderly legal enforcement and enforcement by the judicial administration. I am already in the fourth effective objective, that through the expansion of family judicial assistance, through targeted and needs-oriented training and training events, through structural optimization in the Austrian judicial organisation, through the expansion of the facilities of team assistants in the field of judicial authorities and through the development of a fully electronic procedure management. All these measures are to be welcomed and in line with the guidance given in subheading 13, which I quote: “We stand for the maintenance of legal peace and legal certainty, guarantee independent jurisdiction, act in social responsibility, while respecting fundamental and human rights, and secure the legal and economic location of Austria through our services.” I wish you every success, Minister of Justice, for the implementation of this guide.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e19780	The next item is the speech by Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e19801	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Minister, as has already been said, the court fees are a major problem. I have already said that in committee. They're way too high. The surplus is € 189 million, as Mr Steinhauser mentioned earlier, and you then partially let it flow into the budget, in a budget that has nothing to do with justice. I mean, it should be that every citizen can really afford his right, that is, that the fees are not so high that they can no longer be paid. You said in the Committee that there was the possibility that justice might go in, so that every citizen could afford a trial. This may already apply to someone who is mediocre, but the problem is that then – and I have brought this to your attention in the example of the spouse interview – if you earn relatively little, but just so much that you no longer find it difficult to consider whether you can afford the expensive process at all. You still have to deposit security services, you have to pay the lawyer, and, and, and. These are huge costs, and therefore many citizens fail to enforce their law. They say: This is no longer in relation to the costs incurred if I seek the procedure I may lose! So it's not always that people really get their right if they're right because the fees are just too high! I therefore call on you, Minister, to do something that is really manageable for everyone to come to his right. A next point concerns my request, which will be dealt with shortly in the Committee on Justice, which is that pending judges and pending prosecutors are doing a kind of hospital service at the executive, over two or three months. I am concerned in this request that these people, who really need to speak right then, also receive practical instruction, that is, that they see what is really out there. I have experienced this in a training course where judges and prosecutors of the LG Feldkirch have voluntarily participated in handcuffs. We had such a training with us. These judges and prosecutors have then seen that it is not impossible to create a handcuff without leaving red stripes. They didn't believe that. They then experienced it themselves and said it was a good experience for them. I am concerned that no such decisions will be made again as in the case I am now going to describe. It must have been an isolated case, but I hope it doesn't happen again. And while a former refugee who has now received a stay in Bregenz, with a large BMW in the middle of the city of Bregenz, has an au- to race and there two women, one of whom has lost both legs, and the penalty has then looked like he had to pay 6 000 € of pain money and has been imprisoned for six months. This is certainly not an understanding in the population. There were also corresponding letters of readers in the newspapers. I think it would be good for the judges to make a practical decision. If they have an insight into police work, they see it with different eyes than if they only know it from the theory. I have studied Jus myself a few semesters and know what theory is, but I also know what practice is as a police officer. Therefore: Such a scheme would certainly be very desirable. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e19850	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e19871	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We are now discussing the chapter on justice in the context of the budget debate. We could see in the Committee's deliberations that the budget is almost the same as in the last year's approach. What has occurred to me is that, the Family Justice Service – and I am very pleased that this important institution was introduced here in Austria in 2011 – is still well equipped in the budget. In other words, if there is even more demand for family judicial assistance – as the Minister has done in the Committee's deliberations – then there is the possibility to resort to reserves. What do you need this family trial aid for? – Family judicial assistance is a very important instrument. They are always needed when it comes to clarifying whether or not there are disputes when it comes to regulating the rights of visitors, without any dispute being brought to the fore, because dispute resolution is a priority and that procedures do not take as long as they have often lasted. – It is gratifying, Mr Federal Minister, that this is the first time that the provision is comprehensive and the second is given the budgetary coverage. Another important objective for me is, of course, the objective of equality. How is this designed? – In this regard, Mr Federal Minister, you have pointed out that inmates in prisons have the opportunity to learn better. That's just sweet, that's important. Only: What is also important to me is that there are a lot of judges – the female form is right, because the gender aspect is right – and it is also seen that women, for example, are found in the top floors – that is the one aspect – and that women also have their place in the judicial institutions. In this sense, I wish for justice, for access to justice, for very, very great success and also for the equality goal to be dealt with accordingly.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e19911	The next item is the speech by Mr Lausch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e19933	Mr President. Federal Minister! My dear colleagues! Yes, we have already heard that there will no longer be money for the execution of the sentence in this new budget 2016. There's no more in there. I think that even if one fails to take account of the fact that there is a great deal of the judicial budget involved in the financial budget, it would nevertheless be if some of the requirements which the Court of Auditors has rightly set out were to be set up in the savings fund, for the reforms you, Mr Bundesminister, have planned, there was money. Too much time to have You no longer – you have to act by 2018, then there are new elections – otherwise you will go into history as the largest ministers of announcement, but unfortunately there will be no implementation. [[Abg. Jewellery: My God, very weak!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] So far, you have announced reforms in the enforcement of youth sentences, reforms in the implementation of measures, but unfortunately relatively little has happened in this respect. But I'll come back to where you could save. The Court of Auditors has also told you something about this, but as far as this is concerned, you are very, I say, very resistant, and this would be the judicial service agency. They hide personnel there at the expense of the matter, which of course is not all right, because you are working here on the matter, and of course this is due to the safety, the purchase for safety, and, and, and. That is where you buy staff, and that would not be necessary from the Court of Auditors' point of view or from our point of view. In 2016, you again budgeted € 12.5 million; € 3.8 million is the sole administrative burden. You answered that in the Committee on Budgets. I think it is no longer possible in times like this that you have well-paid and well-created posts for former cabinet heads of your predecessor, so you'll actually have a judicial service agency and you'll pay staff costs out of your dues. I don't think that's right! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Federal Minister, I have to tell you one thing – you have dissolved the Executive Board in the middle of the year and have re-established the Directorate-General; now it is in office for half a year: Two thirds of the persons acting in the Executive Board have taken you to the Directorate-General without If and But. If you were not satisfied with the performance of the Executive Board, then you can now not benefit from a change of name for the Directorate-General and an integration into the Ministry. And since you didn't even make this cost-neutral, that's absolutely no fame sheet. One thing I have to say to you: You have blown up the staff stand there and you have increased control points in this Directorate-General at the expense of the officers in the execution of the sentence. If you had saved there how the Republic needs to save everywhere, and if you had not unnecessarily blown up the Directorate-General and increased control points there, then – and I have to tell you – you would have had 100 more judicial officers for a long time, where you still have 27 to 35 more so to speak. [[Hello call at the ÖVP.]] I have to tell you that, Minister of State. And You have to be careful when you think that 2018 is national elections, that you do not fail that you have announced a lot, have wanted a lot, and really have a lot of heart blood in your work – I do not want to agree with you at all – but actually have nothing to do with it. And one of Mr Jarolim's colleagues, who spoke again of the destruction of the Jugendgerichtshof by Böhmdorfer. – One thing you already have to say: The Jugendgerichtshof, when it was closed, was seriously in need of rehabilitation, has come into the years. There was no money to clean it up at the time, and the Jugendgerichtshof was integrated into the Josefstadt Justice Centre. [[Abg. Jarolim: Fucking stupid!]] You act as if there would no longer be a law on youth courts and the execution of youth sentences in Austria, so you dramatize this here at the speaker's desk. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Jarolim.]] That is not fair, Mr Jarolim. I know you're a representative of your own Jugendgerichtshof, that's what you want to write on the flags. This has always been the SPÖ's concern, but if that's possible, if you need it, if you are in Vienna, I say now that 40 young people are in prison, I dare to doubt it. This is your horse, I confess to you, but the truth is not what you have said, because at that time you have only closed the reorganisation-needed Jugendgerichtshof – and not put the Jugendgerichtsgesetz out of force. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter]] In this sense, Mr Federal Minister, I still wish you much success with this budget, and I hope that you can implement some reform in your term of office. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e20027	Next, Mr Magistrate. Nice to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e20049	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen at the gallery! Our justice, our functioning rule of law, is the guarantee of the acceptance of democracy. I would like to express my full appreciation at this point and at the beginning of my speech to all those ladies and gentlemen who, in the field of Austrian justice, ensure that Justitia can actually act in the sense of balancing justice. At this point I would like to thank the thousands of judicial staff, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] The Austrian courts treat around 3.2 million cases of business at their four organisational levels per year. Most of these cases concern execution cases, followed by land and company records and general civil matters. Only 3 percent is the number of cases in criminal matters, which should always be made aware. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the five targets of the UG 13, justice, remained the same compared to the previous year – and they remained the same for good reason. They address legal certainty and legal peace, ensuring access to the law and services of jurisdiction by compensating for disadvantages. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, Europe is actually the epitome of freedom and the rule of law in our world, and especially in the last few days, especially in recent weeks, this freedom which we have fought here in Europe over the centuries – and I believe I am not exaggerating – has been heavily attacked with blood, sweat and tears. Europe was attacked by the insane and, I say, by the blinded criminals of the “Islamic State”. They have declared war on the whole free world. They want to put us in fear and terror in Europe, they want to split our society. They must not succeed in this, and it is our duty here in Parliament as a policy, it is the responsibility of the executive, and it is not least the duty of the judicial authorities to protect the citizens of our beautiful Austria, in our beloved Austria, if perhaps also by means, ladies and gentlemen, who do not give us all 100 percent are right, all of us do not like 100 percent. We will, however, – and I say so very consciously at this point – be here in this House in the near future, also to talk about the means by which we have to oppose these barbarians. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, yes, all these are things that will, in one way or another, cut or restrict our freedoms, but every society in free Europe, in the free Western world, will have to ask itself the question of how it will combat the challenges of terrorism and how it will protect its own population. We need to make this question clear on the basis of a material and content discussion. For example, it is said that France has the strictest anti-terrorism laws. A look over the edge of the plate helps a lot further, and you can see how the discussion is being conducted in other countries. France has the strictest anti-terrorist laws. Some say: And yet it happened! – I say: Yes, France has the strictest anti-terrorist laws, and so much could be prevented – and not: Nevertheless, it happened! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If one follows the German media, in particular the German-funded public broadcasting system, one hears there quite well between the lines that Austria is also a security risk. We have to ask ourselves why. That is why I am looking forward to the debate here in this House over the next few weeks. I would like to thank the Minister for his careful, binding management and wish him and the department all the best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e20119	Next, Mr Brückl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e20140	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen here in the House! Dear listeners! The more difficult the times in the field of security policy are, the more the government is required to make more money available for security. Our judicial system today is demanding everything, in reality one works at the limit, and yet financial cuts are continued in important areas within the judicial system. I have to give Mr Scherak a point of order when he says that we are discussing a budget here and today, which at the end will look quite different. On the one hand, the judicial institutions in Austria are meeting, that is, the very area in which the staff in which the staff are exposed to the greatest risk potential. We know, for example, that the annual budget allocated to individual judicial institutions is not enough for this year. It was already exhausted in October or November, and yet again there the funds for the year 2016 – and all of this, although it is known that many prisons in Austria suffer from chronic overcrowding, which would be proven in the example of the justice institution Suben. This is designed for 278 detentions, while it is currently overburdened by about 15 percent. This has an impact on language and interpretation, which also has an impact in the field of social work in the judicial institutions and also in the field of medical care. Of course, this will also increase security concerns once less money is available. Resocialisation and Pre- This will suffer and will increase the potential for aggression due to a lack of employment in prisons. On the other hand, Mr. Federal Minister, the situation is the courts. The staff situation in the courts is tense, with judges as well as with non-judicial staff. There is no recording stop there, but we also know that every judge, each prosecutor, binds at least two to three law enforcement forces. It will not be possible to close this gap if there is a lack of post-occupied but non-judicial staff, and only with structural reforms in the IT field, Mr Minister, such as the introduction of the electronic file or the use of language recognition programs as a substitute for writing staff. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Mr Federal Minister, I am then allowed to make a request to my colleague, Christian Lausch, which reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] That would be economic, because you could actually save money. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If this development, Mr Federal Minister, persists, this is alarming, and this is true of thought, because the cuts in money in the field of criminal proceedings lead to less security, the cuts in financial resources in the field of case law will permanently affect the quality of the case law and, of course, also mean longer procedures and less legal certainty. That would be the wrong way from our point of view.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e20229	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Brückl is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e20317	Next speaker: Mrs Grossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e20338	Mr President. Minister! The present draft budget contains some encouraging measures, such as the increase in transfer payments for associations for property management and for the patient's attorneyship of € 5.9 million. The common objective is to keep people's self-determination as far as possible and also as long as possible without being over-privileged or taking financial damage, i.e. a very important welcome measure. But it is important, Mr Minister, that the maintenance right should be further developed towards a system of maintenance that is as complete as possible, because we know that poor, too low maintenance payments are the main cause of child poverty in Austria, so I also take seriously your announcement that you have made on the margins of the Justice Committee that you will be working on this very soon. To the budget: The budget is well-designed for the further training of judicial staff, but also of non-judicial staff, especially when it comes to the assessment of a cause of detention, because if there is a reason for arrest, a liability must also be imposed. There is no need to misunderstand the directions under the Law on the Protection of Violence, as some dramatic cases of the past may have been. Our security and judicial staff are subject to the highest demands and therefore also needs the best possible preparation and, of course, the best possible support. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e20372	Mr Brandstetter has now spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e20393	Mr President. High house! I am grateful for the opportunity to say something to these very interesting contributions. Yeah, it's right. I have the happiness and privilege of being allowed to preside over a fascinating resort, with a very, very wide range of tasks and with various problems, no question. I would like to start by saying that, of course, I would like to go into a lot of contentions where there is a real space for that, namely in the Committee on Justice, which we are about to have, but today we are actually talking about our budget and what is directly related to it. Well, if it was said that the judicial body had an over-financing by the fees, it is formally comprehensible if only one considers the field of case law – that is legible on page 6 in the draft federal proposal – but it is not about 189, but it is precisely 183. It must be said, however, that our tasks in the field of criminal proceedings cost a lot accordingly, so that we have to say, as a whole, that, of course, we are trying to ensure the financing of our tasks through as high revenue as possible. However, I have to pay particular attention to this – and I have to do so again and again – in the area of fees – and I am going quite in line with what has already been said here, that access to justice, especially for the weaker, is not hindered by too high a fee. That is why we have already abolished and reduced fees in the area of family law, and just now another amendment to the Law on Court Fees has been made by the Council of Ministers, which will also lead to the reduction or elimination of fees, in particular in the case of extradition proceedings, in the case of execution and insolvency proceedings, in matters of maintenance and employment. I think it is very, very important that, especially in legal areas where everyone has to use the services of the court relatively easily, there is a reduction and a reduction in fees. It is also, I think, not unimportant that the border under which labour law procedures will be free of charge, according to this draft, which has already been decided by the Council of Ministers, will be raised from at least € 1 450 to € 2 500; I also consider that important. And I also think it is important – and this may not mean so large sums now, but it is important to me from the symbol character – that there will be a fee exemption for applications to the company book court with which the recently possible presentation of diacritic signs in the company's book should be implemented accordingly. This is not only a sign of the internationalisation of the economy, but also an important symbolic sign in favour of our peoples, which will mainly affect it. As far as fees are concerned, of course, it is always necessary – I admit – to try not to hinder access to justice in particular. There is actually a relatively high revenue this year – that was said by Mr Stefan – in the area of the basic book registration fee. Just there you have to be careful, we already know: This is a one-time effect, which is due to the fact that there are apparently a lot of property transactions this year that have been preferred. This probably has to do with the tax reform or with the advance of the tax reform. Now, of course, ladies and gentlemen, I could say salopp: Well, the Minister of Finance has done so in a way, he has caused us to have higher revenue, so it is only legitimate for him to get 40 million € from it now! – But that would be a bit too salopp. No, the truth is that there are, of course, framework conditions, which have been decided here in the house, that is the federal budgetary law, which are given to me; but I can assure you of one thing: I am fully in line with exactly the objectives that the Federal Minister of Finance has declared here today: with a strict budget and with a high reform rate. Both of us – and now I come to the issue of implementation – have really realized in my house; I stand for it. I say quite frankly to you: Tax money is precious, so you have to deal with it carefully, and so am I. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lugar]] Therefore, it is important to resolve residues if you have any. We still have – you can read it in the design – around €160 million reserves. This may be a little less by the end of the year, but in principle I would also say, as Minister of Finance, that: If a resort has deposits, then it should dissolve once before it looks for fresh tax money – completely right, I am. The need for the agreement of the Minister of Finance for the resolution of reserves is not just about me. That is one of the requirements of federal budgetary law, and that is what it is. But I can assure you: We have been able to regulate and decide, together with the Minister of Finance, everything that was so far necessary to resolve deposits. [[Intrusion of the Abg. It's funny.]] This was the case, Mr Lausch, with the implementations that have already taken place. There's a lot of things going on. Hit on the beat, it's all right. Expansion of the Forensic Centre of Asten as a key model for the future care of residents in the implementation of measures, capacity expansion by one third, from around 100 to 150, with the real best care of the inmates there – this is a model example of what we are planning to do about this in the future –; enhancing capacity at Puch Detention Centre near Salzburg; Increased capacity in Eisenstadt, we will be able to open the new building in spring. Through appropriate financing of the Ministry of Finance, we have ensured the expansions in the Simmering institution and the expansion in Hirtenberg, and, depending on how the Jugendgerichtsgesetz will affect after the novel in January, we will also be able to expand the capacities in the Jugendhaftkompetenzzentrum in Gerasdorf. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smart]] Yes, that's what I understand by implementation; only we always look at exactly what you really need before, so I was in many detention centres. There's probably hardly anyone in Austria who was in as many prisons as I am, but that's important. [[Cheerfulness with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. It's funny.]] [[Abg. Lugar: As a prisoner or as a visitor?]] You have to look at what is really necessary and what is needed. On this occasion, Mr Brückl: I was in suben. In suben, satisfaction is really very, very high. I was on the 16th. ==References====External links== I was also in other institutions together with Members, I was in Sonnberg with honourable Members. That is to say, I am looking at where the shoe is pressing, and where it is pressing is also remedyed – relief from the new institution of the Directorate-General. I can assure you that the Directorate-General has also assured me: Of course, necessary measures, necessary care, including in the medical field, are ensured. Wherever it is necessary, this will be decided in a short way, and this was actually the essential purpose of this restructuring: that we have short ways of making decisions with the Directorate-General in the House and can react immediately. We had in fact major capacity problems in Eisenstadt in the short term due to the almost 600 tugs, which were detained as a whole. I have to say: Begs in front of the judicial guards who have really managed to do so. We were there together, the Director-General and I, it was a Sunday morning; we looked at this, and we managed to remedy it relatively in the short term. Yes, we are looking at the problems on the ground, and we have been able – and until now always able – to, in any case, with the rescheduling of reserves and the agreement of the financial unit to take the necessary measures. This is the way in which I imagine this. We have also carried out structural reforms in our own house, which have made massive savings. Who can claim that? We saved a section. In connection with the creation of the Directorate-General for Criminal Enforcement, we have saved a number of departments. We now have short ways to decide, things are much faster. This was a sensible reform, which, as a whole, has very likely saved costs. As the argument with the judicial service agency always comes: Ladies and gentlemen, the judicial service agency operates extremely economically – most economically! – and highly successful on the basis of a law adopted here in the house, namely the Justice Agency Act. That is a legal basis, I think, this possibility we have, and we use it, and that is good. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Smart]] All of this is done on a proper legal basis and is also done because it is economic to provide many services through such a private-law institution, which would probably no longer be manageable in the area of sovereignty. That's it. That is why I would like to conclude by saying that we can live well with this budget as a whole. It is essential, however, that in all the reform projects that we have already begun, especially in the area of major criminal and action reform, I agree with the financial sector. It is not until today that I spoke to the Minister for Finance about some details of these plans, of these joint plans that we have. So you can be sure, there is already a lot in progress, and we will be able to implement a lot as before, which ultimately also means that the execution of sanctions and measures in Austria will be improved accordingly, that it will return to where it belongs, the execution of penalties in Austria, namely at the top of Europe. We want to go there, and there we will come too! – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e20474	Next speaker: Mr Schmid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e20495	Mr President. Federal Minister! My remarks deal with a short cross-section from the legal, external and internal sub-groups. The Federal Government has been held on to economy globally. The budget creation requires different savings from the individual ministries – savings measures, which are partly at the expense of the security of the domestic population. The security report conveys the impression of a healing world, the reality draws a different picture. It is incomprehensible that attacks and crimes by strangers, in part refugees, cannot be published by executives and subject to secrecy. [[Call the SPÖ: What are you doing?]] On the other hand, decisions against the population, even if they are individual cases, are known and can be proved by judgments in favour of offenders. Executive officials – including those who have been dismantled in large numbers and police inspections are closed – have reached the edge of their performance. Sicknesses with long-term consequences up to the suicide are not only known as individual cases. On the side of the Ministry's promised staff increases are not noticeable in the Western Länder. An East-West accident in security is not acceptable within the framework of equality between the federal states and their population. With regard to the current wave of refugees, It is not possible to solve the problem within the federal territory. The reception of foreigners and refugees is a sustainable problem. Both the financial burden and the impact on the labour market and on social benefits are not to be described as transparent. The security of the domestic population is in any case the highest priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e20526	The next speaker was Mr Vetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e20547	Mr President. Minister! High house! If public life in a city like Brussels is paralysed for several days, this leads us in a dramatic way to see how important the core tasks are in the state's inner and external security. The internal security also includes justice. If my colleague Bernd Schönegger has thanked the judicial staff – the Justitia – for the balancing justice, it should be recalled in this context that Justitia holds the balance in one hand and in the other the sword – the sword as a sign of enforcement, which we sometimes forget; the enforcement of law is also a matter of justice. The judicial system, of course, also includes money, a budget, which we usually do. We're looking for the right thing to do. Already in Latin it has been said, iudex non calculat, the judge does not charge, but also the justice wants to be paid. If today's debate has been that the court fees pay, in part, for 78, the others with 110 per cent, then a distinction must be made quite clear: A large part of these fees are the inclusion fees and not the court fees in the narrower sense. In reality, court fees as such do not bring a relatively small amount of coverage. However, I believe that there is such a contribution, because those who have disputes and process against each other should do so at their own expense and not at the expense of the taxpayer, that is not to be seen. One word on budgetary truth: In the case of justice, we never know in advance how many processes there will be, how many divorces there will be, how many ingregations there will be, so I think it is absolutely right to budget carefully – this is also a budgetary principle that is being observed here. Last point: I can save myself today my Ceterum senseo, since the lawyer's tariff has been raised. – Thank you, Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e20593	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Feichtinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e20615	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Yes, the debate in the field of justice is divided by two major blocks: the amount of court fees on the one hand and the enforcement and the costs of them on the other. As far as the level of court fees is concerned, there have already been welcome steps in the right direction, namely in order to reduce them. As far as the execution of the penalty is concerned, Mr Federal Minister, in the light of the events of recent years, I believe that the right steps have been taken, although we recognise that this is of course not always easy to implement at the budgetary level. The fact that in 2016 in the judicial budget no cuts are provided for in the planning positions of judges and prosecutors, but will be saved exclusively in the administrative sector, is also recognised in our view in a tight budget situation. In an overall view of the field of justice, it can be found that the unit can carry out its tasks very well by means of the resources available to it and will also continue to implement some welcome reform steps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e20651	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Mulder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e20672	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The Chapter on Justice is divided into three global budgets: Case Law, Penalty and Control and Services. The latter is the smallest area, it only accounts for 7 percent in total, but it has been strengthened by 27 percent in total. This includes, in addition to administrative transactions, the promotion of associations, law enforcement and patient prosecution, as well as victim assistance facilities; my colleague Grossmann has already said more about this. I would just like to take out one association, the association NEWART, again. This association has also asked for appropriate teaching very early on and has to show on its side also consistently appropriate, good care work. He's offering resocialisation assistance to the criminal. This is a very important work, and I would like to make this clear again in the House: In criminal law, since the Brodas reform in the 1970s, the sinew aspect has come to the fore; today we are dealing with behavioural changes more criminally, and it can only succeed if a return to society succeeds. NEWSTART manages over 11 000 clients. A new addition has also been made to the care of the so-called clients with footbands, which are a total of 312. This is actually a small or medium-sized judicial body, and the costs are actually very low: The judicial body would cost € 10 million, the care by NEWART costs only € 2 million. Resocialisation is also preventive protection of victims, and I wish the employees of the association NEWSTART in our all interest a great deal of success in the work.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e20706	The next item is Mrs Bayr's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e20727	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to take the opportunity of yesterday's meeting in the Ministry of Justice – Combining Antisemitism, Legal Means – to point out the importance of a well-functioning judicial system to combat anti-Semitism, also in Austria, also in Europe. The European Fundamental Rights Agency, which is located in Vienna, pointed out at the European Commission's first Fundamental Rights Colloquium this autumn that anti-Semitism in Austria is a serious problem in Europe. She complains, among other things, that there are few well-like figures on anti-Semitism, and calls above all for greater encouragement from both witnesses, witnesses and victims of anti-Semitism to report these incidents. The Fundamental Rights Agency also emphasises the importance of good, accredited cooperation between government, law enforcement authorities, prosecutors and non-governmental organisations, and believes that it is important to invest on the one hand in training measures in terms of awareness-raising, on the other hand, but also in a clear, uniform definition of anti-Semitism. In short: Protecting Jewish communities is also a clear signal that the fundamental rights of all people are taken seriously, no matter where they live in Europe, whether they belong to a minority or not. The budget, including from the judiciary, for this cooperation, but also for training measures, I think, is an important step that should be forced. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e20766	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Tür. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e20788	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The 2016 budget is admittedly designed by us under difficult conditions. So it is all the more gratifying if we do not discuss the downside in times like this, but rather very well about investment. This also applies to criminal proceedings and to judicial institutions. Yeah, there's a need for action. Just as it is important and right to execute penalties in the context of case law, it is equally important and right that the following is considered in the execution of the sentence itself. That is to say, it is about the resocialisation of prisoners to do everything possible to facilitate their way back into civil society so that they no longer become criminal. These investments in judicial institutions are important for society as a whole. A judicial body that is particularly well-known for its vocational training programmes, especially for the intensive training of skilled workers, is the one that will receive almost €14 million from the 2016 budget for two years. This is the judicial institution Simmering in the Kaiser-Ebersdorfer-Straße in Vienna. A historic tract will be renovated and expanded there, the working conditions of the staff, the judicial guard will be improved. This also facilitates the work of motivated staff at the stage, in order to resocialize or help. Investments in this sum, of course, also help Austrian companies. This is also about jobs; this is also one of the objectives of the 2016 budget. Let me make one more comment on the speech by Mr Lausch of the FPÖ on the subject of Jugendgerichtshof. I think your comments are worrying, namely the blind defence of the abolition of the Jugendgerichtshof under FPÖ Minister Böhm. [[Abg. Lauss: Böhm dorfer! You don't even know the name!]] I can only say to your ignorance: If ignorance hurts, you'd have to cry for pain. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This Jugendgerichtshof was an incredible success story of progressive justice from the 1970s. To defend his abolition blindly, I think that is wrong and very worrying. On the subject of Jugendgerichtshof, I can only say that the position of SPÖ is clear: We need a Jugendgerichtshof. I would therefore ask the Justice Committee and the Federal Minister to continue with us in the dialogue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e20849	I have no further comments on the division of justice. This subject area is thus completed. [[18:03:35]] UG 12: Externals
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e20870	We come to the negotiation of Division 12: Outwards. Mr Hübner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e20894	Mr President. Minister Kurz! Ladies and gentlemen! That's where I need to position myself a little better. [[The speaker changes the height of the speaker's desk.]] The budget of this breakdown is in line with what we know from the past few years. The main manko, I believe, is that the current development of the last four months has not at all taken place. We have the same approaches, the same problems, the same waste and essentially the same distributions. Let us start with the embassies, i.e. foreign representations! There are changes that have startled in view of the comments made in recent years. We have heard until recently, the most important and the greatest achievement is that Austria has a message in every country of the European Union. Now we note the messages that all three embassies in the Baltic countries and also those in Malta will be closed. You can think of it as reasonable if you say: Save us in Europe! In a state that is on its way to the single state, whether or not one likes it or not, who has its own network of foreign representations, we do not need diplomatic representations everywhere, because perhaps the big countries are enough. But it is not about saving, it is about moving back and forth. Instead of the three Baltic states that are not replaced by a Baltic Embassy or a Nordic Embassy, we receive messages in such “important” countries as Moldova, Georgia and Belarus. With each of these countries we have less trade turnover than with each of the Baltic States. Each of these countries has less gross social product than any of the Baltic countries. So that's not quite consistent. The second is the international organizations. There is a shattering that we have already debated each year, or we have tried to discuss with the Minister that organizations will be maintained for years and decades after the crises have already been solved. Millions of Austrian contributions continue to flow... [[Abg. Lopatka talks to the government bank with Federal Minister Kurz.]] – Well, no one has to listen, there is no listening obligation. This is God, thank God, also for the ministers. There are millions of Austrian contributions in missions that have long been completed because these conflicts no longer exist. We make millions of contributions to missions in the Ivory Coast, Haiti, Liberia, where the conflicts have ended for years or decades. For example, we are making millions of contributions to UNIFIL in southern Lebanon. There are crises throughout the region, but the only crisis that is not up-to-date is that between Israel and its neighbouring countries. The countries are sinking in civil war, instability. Millions are spent on a force of UN soldiers who are standing where there is really nothing to regulate and simplify, namely at the liba- Neese-Israeli and the Syrian-Israeli border. There is an urgent need for action. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Development aid: the same – I say – drama or the same waste as for years. We now have a double-digit number of key development aid countries. We have a budget of €70 million, €80 million of so-called bilateral development aid or support or cooperation fee, which is distributed and broken down into small pieces, instead of finally looking for one or two countries, also for political circumstances that we support. I do not believe that we are providing development aid in Georgia or Moldova, Kosovo or Bosnia. These are in principle developed countries that suffer only from the post-communist destruction of their morals and social structures. This cannot be compared to Burkina Faso, Somalia or Ethiopia, but these are countries that need to be helped to reorganise themselves. In the end, development aid should also be used in the interests of the country itself, so I do not understand – and the Minister does not fully understand this and shares my concerns here – that we do not demand that these countries be 100 percent cooperative in the return of illegal immigrants, especially rejected asylum seekers. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The European Union is totally failing here and is unable to enforce after years that at least the North African states, the hundreds of millions of pre-accession and cohesion funds and so on, are cooperative. We must at least set an example and check exactly whether they are cooperative in all these countries, whether they conclude agreements and take people back. The deportation of illegally resided persons or rejected asylum seekers outside Europe tends to be against zero in recent years. We have therefore prepared a request which I do not want to justify, because it has been made in writing for everyone interested. This application is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e21004	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hübner is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e21074	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Lopatka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e21107	Mr President. Foreign Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not have a large budget, although the tasks have become more and more. In reality, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has 0.6 percent of the €77 billion available in the budget and has many tasks to perform. In detail areas, the budget has also been increased: The foreign disaster fund will be increased by €20 million, for development cooperation there is €15 million more, and the means of integration have of course also been increased. In this crisis situation, professionalism and great commitment are needed. This is what we see in our diplomatic corps, also last but not least in Paris, because, unfortunately, Austrians are not spared from this terror, which employs us worldwide. We have seen what the Foreign Office and Vienna can do in recent times. On the question of sanctions against Iran, Vienna was at the heart of the issue; lastly also at the Syria negotiations, where we can only hope that they will be concluded positively. The two most renowned German-speaking newspapers, the “Neue Zürcher Zeitung” and the “Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung”, have commented: ==References== In October 2015, the “New Zurich Newspaper” stated: Sebastian Kurz has given international respect as Foreign Minister. He has also succeeded in reorganising the house in such a way that there is a meaningful focus. - Quote. The “Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung” referred to Vienna: “The city the world looks at.” In Austria, a total of 37 international organisations, including liaison offices and NGOs, currently have their headquarters. This confirms the important role that Austria plays in diplomacy: Vienna as the center of the dialogue and as a bridge builder. That is exactly what distinguishes Austria, what goes far beyond the size of our country and what you have to see economically. A study by Ernst & Young on behalf of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has calculated that 10 000 jobs in Austria are secured by these international organisations. This is something – we have already mentioned it in the morning – if all of us are concerned with securing jobs. This active foreign policy, which is being conducted by the Foreign Minister, has also been demonstrated in the Ukraine crisis, where we have been involved since the beginning to find solutions within the framework of our possibilities in the Council of Europe, but also within the OSCE. Therefore – my speaking time is limited – I say that the Foreign Office with Foreign Minister Short ahead is on a good path. If we can do something more budgetaryly: This place deserves it. But now it is also very good with these few resources that it has.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e21144	Mrs Windbüchler-Souschill's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e21166	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Minister! In fact, world policy is linked to domestic policy. be. The effects of wars and crises, the impact of climate change, the effects of the very unilateral trade policy of the industrialized countries are noticeable – notable as never before. 60 million people worldwide are fleeing. We can no longer stand in front of these wars and before this injustice. On the contrary! It is our obligation also to find Austrian commitment to real solutions. Minister! The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the diplomats, the diplomats who are well-trained, but also all NGOs are part of a possible solution. However, this solution also needs financial resources. We just heard: Only 0.6 percent of the total budget goes to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. These have been reduced by €20 million from 2015 to 2016, despite the great challenges we all face together. It simply needs more peace policy, more neutral foreign policy than less. Just after the terrible terrorist attacks of Paris, it must be a premise to look closely at this. There is a need for a comprehensive terrorist prevention programme and diplomacy, which, of course, must also be financed accordingly. Mr Minister, you know, this millennium of the war against terror has already been proclaimed – from the United States to 9/11. We also need to draw our lessons from this war, because no one has won this war. It was lost more than won. We must not make the same mistakes that have happened in recent years. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What are the solutions then? . The European Commission has announced a package to combat arms smuggling. However, in terms of arms smuggling, but also in terms of terrorist financing, the current policy of the European Union, but also of Austria, is very inactionless. There are hardly any further steps to follow. This also applies to the implementation of the anti-money laundering directive, which is enormously delayed. Austria must continue to be active. The main financiers of terrorism and terrorism must be persecuted. First of all, Saudi Arabia should be mentioned here; this also applies to cooperation with Austria. There needs to be clear steps against further cooperation. It also needs the end of the so-called dialogue centre, which is at the ring exclusively financed by Saudi Arabia, because it is precisely such funding and such cooperations that we all do not want to do here, namely terrorism and terrorism. It also needs the export ban on weapons. For Austria, of course, the export ban applies in the current situation, which is not a question; but Austria can and should also work to ensure that export bans on arms from the USA, Russia and other UN countries are also possible. These steps must finally be taken. This also applies to weapons of old and used use: They all know that photos of weapons produced in Austria are constantly coursed on the net and in the media. On the other hand, there is also a need for clear action. Either they need to be destroyed, or they need to be marked and signed at least to track them. According to the arms embargo, economic sanctions are also a very clear orientation of Austrian foreign policy. This includes the drying out of the financial sources, but also the boycott demand is now upright again as far as Qatar and the 2022 World Cup are concerned. To organise a football World Cup in a country that obviously cooperates with or also finances terrorism is last-class and must definitely be prevented. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is natural to acknowledge that Vienna is hosting the Syria conference, but it is not to be recognized that the funds for the UN Help Organisations – be it UNICEF, be it UNHCR, but above all the World Food Programme – are so small or not paid out, so that the on-the-spot aid does not work. Minister, you spend about €1.2 million on media cooperation, while the World Food Programme has received only half this year: € 650 000 has been transferred to the World Food Programme so far. This Parliament has given you a clear task of getting into the process of doing this and actually taking money into control. Until now, this has not happened either. It should be acknowledged that the foreign disaster fund has finally been increased – a long-standing demand of the Greens – but it is not to be recognized that multilateral development policy remains at the same level. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] More foreign policy and no less!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e21269	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Windbüchler-Soushill is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e21358	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e21382	In the 3 minutes speaking time, I only have to focus very briefly on a few points of view. One should appreciate more that Vienna is the place where the Iran Conference took place, and Vienna is the place where the Syria Conference is now taking place, also with a plan, with a period of time, where one would like to try to develop a new constitution, where one wants to put in place peace policy measures, so that the root of migration from this area will also be eliminated and that one can develop a life perspective for the people there and the people there want to live on. But we're not just hosts. I assume that the aim is to involve Mr Foreign Minister in such a conference and, so to speak, to bring in our good services and experience. The staff of the foreign sector are among the most qualified experts and officials of all the departments we have, and I think that this is certainly also an expertise that can bring something there. It also shows how good and important it is that Vienna is the third UN city, that there is the UN City here, that the experts and officials from this area are here and that we are a place of dialogue with it, and that we should try to be active here, of course, in the context of an active neutrality policy, an active foreign and European policy. I say this is in the final effect the entire government. It is the Federal Chancellor, the Foreign Minister, the many ministers working here within the European Union, who then implement and represent the interests of Austria and the common interests of the European Union when decisions are taken. I think we're giving a pretty active picture in the world. I also refer to the Ukraine conflict, which tried to act with very concrete proposals and to contribute to the resolution of the conflict. For the budget only the following: It was quite clear that you, Mr Federal Minister, must also make savings in representations. The savings in the three Baltic countries are understandable to me. I remember the statements of the representatives of these Baltic countries back in Rome, which were equipped with war rhetoric, that I could only shake my head. This should not now be seen in connection with the message closures, but I can understand that one wants to do something more concentrated, and I think that one is actually doing savings in the right place. You will certainly give me the right, even your whisperer will give me the right, maybe he is even the inventor of this thought. [[Federal Minister Kurz talks with an employee]] Minister! I hope that you and that we can continue this path here – in the interests of Austria and an active foreign and European policy by you and the entire Federal Government.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e21428	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Vavrik. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e21449	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to address the comments made by Mr Windbüchler-Souschill on EZA. Allow me to get a little bit! The wave of refugees, which is currently burning at the borders of Europe, presents us – Austria and Europe – with enormous challenges. It is, of course, a humane crisis in our neighborhood, and for this alone we are called to act. In addition, however, the wave of migration is a hard test of our social system, living together in our society, our budgets and also cohesion within Europe. Some say that we have experienced the first truly existential crisis in Europe since the Treaty of Rome. This unprecedented challenge requires a holistic approach, a complex set of measures of a short-term and long-term nature, measures at EU level, measures at national level, starting with the accommodation, care and training of refugees, and, of course, measures in the countries of origin. The views on the effectiveness of all these measures are shared, but there is consensus in one, I think: We all believe that aid on the ground, in the countries of origin, is essential for contributing to a decent and sustainable solution to the refugee crisis. On-the-spot assistance – Mr Federal Minister – you have stressed this over and over again – a few days ago in the Committee – is one of the priority points. Unfortunately, I find little of that in the budget. What do I find in the budget? – I find an increase in the foreign disaster fund from € 5 million to € 20 million. We welcome this, we asked for it, but we all know that this is still a very modest amount compared to other comparable countries such as Switzerland or Sweden. I also find an increase in the bilateral EZA by €15 million. However, this is a sham increase, I have to say, unfortunately, because that is just the withdrawal of a reduction. We are back at the level of 2014 and far below the level we had years ago; it was once again 100 million €. What else do I think? – A reduction in Austria’s contributions to international organisations and international missions of € 15 million. Mr Federal Minister, I do not agree that this is due to currency fluctuations or new distribution keys, it is a reduction of €15 million, and it comes after an earlier reduction of €10 million. We still had €90 million in 2014, €80 million in 2015, and now €65 million is budgeted. It is of course true that UG 12 does not reflect the totality of public development assistance. In reality, the money comes from many sources, from at least three ministries, financial, agricultural and foreign ministers, from the ADA, from the Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank, from the municipalities, from the countries; thus from many sources, a total of € 870 million. But on my written request, how high the budgeted contributions for the year 2016 are, which are acceptable to this ODA, this official development aid, you have answered me that you do not yet know that you will submit that. We will only know this after we have decided on the budget. I find it somewhat disappointing that, despite the urgency mentioned and the consensus that urgent action is needed here, there is obviously no cross-sectoral planning and budgeting of the EZA. Although the government has set itself the goal – I now quote from the government programme – to “strengthen” the “development cooperation as a general responsibility” and the government agreement contains the following very concrete action – I quote again: “Development and legal anchoring of a step plan to increase EZA funds up to the 0.7% target” – and although the Council of the EU once again committed itself to this target of 0.7% of GNI in May and Austria has explicitly joined this target once again, nothing is happening in this area. Federal Minister! We have repeatedly asked – I, but also colleagues from other parties – where this spirit scale plan is, and last but not least, you have reacted a bit annoyed and said that it has been in the Ministry of Finance for months and that you are sending it to us. They sent it – thanks many times! – and that’s this level plan. [[Keeping a document in height]] That's the level plan! There are three lines: The first line is a forecast of the GNI by 2030, the second line is the percentage of currently 0.26 to 0.7 in 2030, and the third line is the multiplication of the first with the second line – and that is the plan! Mr. Federal Minister, don't blame me, but that's not a plan! I am not surprised that the Minister of Finance does not respond. He probably thought: They don't take it seriously anyway! If I were to do something like that, I wouldn't react either. You also told me, Minister of State, that there is the three-year plan, that I should lean on it. I have to tell you that the three-year plan is not yet available, today at 9 a.m. in the morning he was not yet on the Foreign Ministry's website. [[Federal Minister Kurz:... the SPÖ blocked!]] – The SPÖ is blocked. Okay, let's talk about who's blocking! - Ah, the SPÖ is blocking! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] After we'll see who's blocking. You, Mr Federal Minister, repeatedly ask for a political mandate, and I now make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] That would be the political mission you have asked for more often, Minister of State! This motion for a resolution is supported by three opposition parties. Nor do the Social Democrats block that they would have been willing to support the request today, but your group, which I have asked to go there, has said: We must ask in the ministry – I do not want to comment on the understanding of your group of parliamentarianism and violence – whether we are allowed to do so. And when he answered, No, no, no, I don't know who landed, but probably the wrong person. It was said by the Ministry: No, it's not supported. Now the question is, you have one last chance... [[Abg. Lopatka: Mr Vavrik, you never talked to me about it!]] No, I spoke to the EZA speaker about this, with colleagues Huainigg, who will speak next. He has the opportunity to challenge this, but he told me he had to call at the ministry, and in response he came: N-N-N-N-N-N-N-N-T. Perhaps you can correct this in the short term; I think that would be a nice thing. The proposal is actually harmless, no figures, only what you need, Minister of the Federal Government, so that this plan is a little bit depleted and we may perhaps get in the way and take a first good step in this direction. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e21552	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Vavrik is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e21620	Next speaker: Mr Delegate Dr. Huainigg. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e21641	Mr President. Minister! High house! The European Year for Development is coming to an end, and a major concern of Austria was to improve the awareness of the population for development cooperation and, above all, to inform young people and to be interested in spending a year in developing countries helping and supporting work there. There are great projects of the Austrian Development Agency, and this budget also reflects these measures. We have already adopted the budget accompanying law today. This package also includes the voluntary social year abroad. It is now possible that young people go abroad, that they are assured that they receive pocket money and also educational support. This is important so that young people really get to know this work and start burning it for development cooperation and then carry it on later in their professional life. In this draft budget there is also an increase for the foreign disaster fund to four times, namely €20 million. This is also a short thanks to Minister, who is very committed to this area. I would like to talk about what my colleague, Mr Vavrik, has accused: that there is no level plan. We have fixed the level plan in the Government Convention. That is the goal of the Federal Government, and it is not right that Federal Minister Kurz has not presented a plan. He is there, and it is up to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany to set priorities and to say that this level plan is a priority towards other concerns. In this sense, I believe that ministers are doing good and committed work in the field of development cooperation. It must also be seen that many people are coming to us, fleeing to us, and that humanitarian aid is being given to a very large extent, which will then be reflected in the field of ODA. However, we must not forget the objective of helping people on the ground and giving prospects and new objectives through development cooperation, and above all the economic partnerships that the Austrian Development Agency is carrying out are helping. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e21680	Now Mr Bundesminister has made a brief statement. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e21702	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I can start with a few words about the starting position in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The starting point is definitely a demanding one: Austria is an export-oriented country, where € 6 million of € 10 is earned abroad; there are 10 million of Austrians travelling abroad a year; 37 international organisations that have already been addressed by Josef Cap bring a return rate of € 500 million per year. The Ministry is also responsible for integration, and of course the integration of 1.5 million people with migration backgrounds is also a challenge. The refugee crisis demands our ministry twice, on the one hand as a Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Europe, but on the other hand as a Ministry of Integration, which is responsible for coordinating the integration of people who may remain in Austria in the long term. The budget of our house is €428 million, i.e. €21.7 million less than originally foreseen in the federal financial framework. We are trying, in particular, to make possible savings through structural reform in current operation, but also through personnel measures and by redimensionaling our real estate, to contribute to this saving path. At the same time, however, it has succeeded in setting priorities in some areas or taking more money into control. I am glad that we succeeded in having more budgetary resources available for integration, which will be used in particular for early language support in kindergartens. In my opinion, the money is very well invested, as it is definitely more sensible to invest early than later to repair. I am also pleased that we have succeeded in increasing the foreign disaster fund from €5 million to €20 million with the support of the Ministry of Finance. Of course, it could be more and more, but a quadruple is, I would say, but a very clear increase. As far as development cooperation is concerned, I have from the outset said that it is my objective not to be able to make savings, just as the federal financial framework provides, but to keep development cooperation at least at the same level. This too has been successful! We therefore keep development cooperation at the level of 2014. I may be able to take up a few points that have been raised by Members. Mr Hübner referred to the need to represent our interests. - I see it the same way. Foreign policy should have the goal of representing our values as well as our interests in the world. In so far as – especially when we are talking about development cooperation – I think the approach is very useful that the European Union does not cooperate in developing countries that are not willing to take back refugees. I believe that it is quite legitimate not only to be donors and payers in this area, but also to demand a contribution from these countries. The withdrawal of so-called economic refugees is in our interest and is a contribution that states can also make to support us. I can only fully support one point which Mr Vavrik has raised, namely that assistance on the ground is essential. I'd go so far as to say: This is much more sustainable than believing that Europe and Austria can solve all the problems of the world by including refugees in Europe. The figures are known: With the money it causes to provide a refugee in Austria for a year, we can provide 19 people in Turkey, even much more in other countries of the region. So yes, I think it would be much more sustainable to take on more money for development cooperation, more money for assistance on the ground, and I will continue to support the Austrian Federal Government, but also the European Union. If I see in other countries of Europe where, for example, the funds for development cooperation are used to provide for the refugees in the country, then I believe that this, especially if we look at the costs in comparison, is not a particularly sustainable way and the consideration of the refugees may not be the smartest. As far as the stage plan is concerned, I have no problem with the critical remark on the one side that has been raised here. There is, of course, much more, and I would like to share the content with you, Mr Deputies. All the competent Members of this House are welcome to discuss this with us. There are clear geographical priorities as well as clear objectives of development cooperation. It is true that this one sheet, which explains the financial situation, contains only a few figures, but that does not mean that there is no plan behind it and that there are priorities which we have considered very carefully in the ministry, but which of course we would like to discuss with the relevant Members. I would just like to make one point which, from my point of view, is very important: As long as there is no budgetary coverage for a level plan, no matter how thick the paper is, no matter how many pages it contains, no matter what geographical or thematic priorities there are, as long as there is no budgetary coverage, unfortunately the level plan of God is only a theoretical exercise. I hope that at some point we will be able to move towards the fact that it will not remain a theoretical exercise, but will be realized. The last point – because I have been addressed to the three-year programme – is: The three-year programme has been prepared by my house for a few months. I assume that we will soon be able to decide on this in the Council of Ministers. At least I hope so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e21775	Mr Mölzer has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e21796	Mr President. Minister! High house! Mr Minister, you have now mentioned, for a number of times, that you are also committed to linking development aid or EZA funds to readmission agreements. – I hope that these words will also follow suit. [[Abg. Korun: What about your racism towards children? Would you like to say something about that?- Oh, my God!]] – I will talk about the matter and not let the Greens put me on the dock. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would like to address another aspect of the budget, namely the area of funding for German-speaking minorities abroad. According to your information in the Budget Committee, Mr Minister, these German-speaking minorities, especially in Slovenia, do not have basic budget items or financial resources, but only project-related funds of around €20 000. In our view, this is remarkable because, as I believe, political support for the German-speaking minority, especially in Slovenia, is very poor by the Federal Government. And if you know how much the funding – and we think it is, of course, fully justified – is for the autochthonic minorities in Austria, then of course these € 20 000, which is available on a case-by-case basis, are very little and almost ridiculous. We believe that this fundamental non-proposal in the budget – and not only in the 2016 budget, but for years now – indicates that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will not continue to be willing and will be actively committed to the concerns, for the preservation and protection of German-speaking minorities, for the old Austrian minorities in the successor states of the K.-u.-k. monarchy. This is also remarkable in that the National Council, by means of a resolution - a five-party resolution request from the year 2012 - has called on the German Government to stand up for the recognition of the German-speaking minority in Slovenia with all its votes in this House. We would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] We hope for your approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e21859	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Mölzer is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e21921	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Muttons. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e21945	Mr President. Foreign Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The 2003 European Security Strategy, which is still in force, begins with: “Never before has Europe been so wealthy, so safe and so free.” Unfortunately, this consistently positive condition is no longer applicable. A new security strategy to address the new situation in Europe is already underway in Brussels. The Europe of 2015, that is from this year, and thus also Austria, is surrounded by a belt of instability, violent conflicts and also civil wars. This begins in Ukraine, where the attack on Crimea's power supply makes it very clear once again how dangerous this conflict between Russia and Ukraine is. The belt of instability and crises goes further through Moldova, the Balkans, Turkey, where the government does not want to continue the peace process with the Kurds, Syria, Iraq, an area that has now become a place of training of terrorism, and this whole region also threatens countries such as Jordan or Lebanon. Not to be forgotten is the Palestinian question, even this is a ticking time bomb. Or think of Egypt with Sinai or Libya, where the Daesch already controls 200 kilometers of coastline, to the Sahel zone, to Mali! All these crises and these crisis areas, ladies and gentlemen, have a direct impact on our security and our lives in Europe. Therefore, it must be clear that our foreign and development policy must be given a completely different priority and that this increasing importance must also be shown financially. However, foreign policy must be more than the handles of economic policy. We must understand that EZA is not a selfless act of mercy, but that it is in our most keen interest if the southern countries can develop fairly and socially stablely. The increase in foreign policy funds by just under €19 million, the increase in the foreign disaster fund and the end of the EZA budget cuts are the first steps that are important. In the EZA, we have to move forward, and we rely on your word, Mr Foreign Minister, that the funds will actually be used on the ground and will not be re-examined, for example, in the area of integration measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e21991	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Korun. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e22012	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Kurz, I would like to address you in your capacity as Minister for Integration, or I would like to take you seriously in this function. We have experienced a few funny or half-happy minutes with you in the Budget Committee, where, for example, you have heard the repeated question of how many German courses [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler]] You want to create with your budget 2016, want to give no answer or could. On several occasions, they then decided on the half-holidous answer “depending on the need” and gave this “depending on the need” response to several requests. Now it is true that thanks to God there is also a written right of inquiry by the National Councillors, and if you look at the written answers, the You, the House, have sent us – thanks many times for this – then you can also imagine why the oral questions were so weak or not answered. They have previously indicated the increase in the integration budget – that sounds pretty good at first sight. If you are asked at the same time, and I have done so with specific written questions about how many German courses will be created in 2016 – and I would just like to remind you that since you took office, you have always greatly reduced your integration to German knowledge and have constantly preached and done German learning, as if integration would have been completed if someone could do well German – and if you look at your written answers, how much will be available, for example, to the Austrian Integration Fund for German and Orientational Courses: It's €7.9 million. I find it interesting that the 21 percent of the integration budget is. 21 percent of the integration budget is intended to be used according to your own data for German courses, and not only would recognised refugees, of which you also said in the Committee, be expected to be a number of about 45 000 people who will most likely receive asylum recognition next year. It's quite amazing that all 21 percent of the work is to be used for learning German. They also spoke of this integration pot, which is to be found in the Ministry of Finance budget. This sum is difficult to find in the budget, but we will see together whether it will be necessary for you to apply there for the compulsory courses for democracy that you want to make for recognised refugees. Now it is very exciting that this pot for integration should consist of €75 million. The Minister for the Interior announced to the Budget Committee that she had made proposals for €30 million. The Minister of Education has applied for over €29 million, and at the same time you assume that you will receive most of this integration budget from the Ministry of Finance for Integration. With If you want to finance these mandatory democratic courses for recognised refugees, it is completely in the stars. Your answer was also “depending on the need” or “it’s just budgeted”. Since the next year's budget is to be decided on the next morning, I would like to ask you again what resources you want to finance in sufficient number, as well as the mandatory courses for recognised refugees, because this budget unfortunately does not reflect this. Overall, I would like to see a serious integration policy, which is more than PR policy, tag “storage”, by the way, a campaign that has cost more than half a million euros of tax money, which may have contributed very well to your image values – I would like to congratulate you – but that was unfortunately lost money for real, sustainable integration work. In this sense, in the hope of a genuine, sustainable policy for co-existence and equality – thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e22074	The next item is the speech by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e22095	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The decent management of the flow of refugees is certainly a major challenge for all of us in Europe and, above all, the integration of aylene-based people is a social necessity. Mrs Korun, if you are referring to the Foreign Minister not to act seriously on this issue, this is a bad joke, not only because Sebastian has presented a 50-point integration plan which deals very comprehensively with the subject. [[Abg. Korun: That's what the numbers say!]] You can make fun of everything, it's for you as an opposition, but everything in the past is not fair. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Korun: It's very serious, unfortunately!]] [[Mr Lichtenecker and Mr Walser.]] If not only the Foreign Minister says, but also at the beginning of the Finance Ministers, it is clear to everyone in Austria and also in Europe that there is a need to set up funds for the integration of these people and for the management of this subject, for the provision of people, then you cannot create and say that nothing happens here; and the exact figures are not clear because new people are coming to our country permanently. [[Abg. Korun: Depending on your needs!]] [[Abg. Korun: Depending on your needs!]] I'm trying to see together that we can achieve positive solutions. The flow of refugees, extremism, terrorism, jihadism are enormous challenges, not only for Austrian politics but also for European politics. The weakness of the common Europe is evident: that we do not have a common foreign policy. It is therefore right what our Foreign Minister is doing, namely looking for a role for Austria in the European concert and positioning it clearly, to position Austria and Vienna as a meeting place, as a constructive dialogue platform where the world powers come together: Iran talks successfully, after decades of breakthrough, Syria conflict: Peace talks that have the chance and give a hope that, hopefully, a peaceful solution will come once. I mean, this is a way to support and we can be proud that Austria is elected as such. To conclude, I would like to say: From a regional policy point of view, the funds, the European Regional Fund, the Agricultural Fund and also the Social Fund are available to create jobs to set up economic projects – for Austrians, but also for people with asylum status who want to integrate. These regional policy programmes call for more growth and more employment. This too is an aspect that can be taken into account and that can be used by the federal government in concert with the federal states to give people a perspective. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e22186	The next item is the speech by Mr Bösch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e22208	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Bundesminister Kurz, you will receive €75 million in the area of integration to this €37 million budgeted – you have explained this in the Committee, and it is also set out in the same way. I accept that they will promote integration, especially those people who have struggled over the last few months. This will have been the reason for this increase. But they will also, and we expect this money to be used to accommodate these people decently, but also that they will be prepared for them to return, when the escape ground will have fallen away, can return to their home country. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Federal Minister, your party and you have formulated the term “Asyl on time”, which I welcome. You pretended you invented it. You didn't invent it. It is up-to-date that asylum is a right to time and that those states which grant asylum also determine whom and how long this right is granted. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I welcome the fact that your party has now made this asylum a political issue and that the coalition partner must also think about it. However, this asylum and these efforts to integrate you, Mr Federal Minister, will only make sense if we manage to take robust measures to deal with this electricity. – And that is not what I say, this is what renowned scientists and well-known experts say about the electricity that has just begun to invade Europe in its abundance, this current from the Middle East, but also from Africa. This power can only be managed if we manage to secure the borders when we begin to secure the Austrian border, and at present it is not secured, Minister of State. You are not responsible for this, but I am telling you because you have rightly introduced an aspect that is interesting with asylum on time. However, at European level, you are responsible for the European position in the Council of Foreign Ministers, for securing the EU's external border, and, in addition to securing and closing the Austrian border, you must be able to secure the EU's external border and fully seal it at this stage in which we are currently in the process. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You have also stated as an effective objective in your budget that your objective is to ensure the foreign, security, Europe and economic interests of Austria in Europe, and that, Mr Federal Minister, is precisely this point. They should play this role at the European Council, where you can influence it, but above all in the Foreign Ministers' Council. Perhaps you can explain today, in the context of the debate – it is not so late yet – what measures you will take on behalf of the Republic of Austria in the Council of Foreign Ministers in order to secure the EU's external border. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e22280	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e22301	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Effective targets have just been addressed, five impact targets exist in your budget approach, three of which are gender equality targets. Purpose of action point 4: The principle of ‘unity in diversity’ and intercultural and interreligious dialogue – this is about culture. Another objective of equality is in Austria's development aid, and I asked you in committee: What about gender equality? – They have assured that the various projects that are being supported will focus on the fact that women’s interests are also particularly taken into account. In this respect, I would like to refer to a motion for a resolution tabled by the women's representatives of all the parties represented here in the House during the last sitting, and I would like to draw your attention to that. This request is about the particular attention to be paid to women and girls on the run. Women and girls on the run have special needs in this context, whether it is in their own country, so to speak, as domestic refugees, or, as so often, in neighbouring countries – it has already been mentioned here today –: 2 million refugees are in Turkey, of which very many are women, and there are special needs to pay special attention. In these difficult times, in times of war, in times of terrorism, women are often subjected to special violence, such as mass rapes, or there is now a new phenomenon – you hardly believe it –: In 2015, women are enslaved and sold like objects. It is important to work against it and also to ensure that in the various refugee camps, including abroad, UNHCR, attention is paid not only to these special conditions, these multiple traumatisations to which women are extradited, but also to the fact that measures are taken accordingly, whether they be sanitary measures or also in terms of premises. In this sense, Minister: Set Your money is good, even in the sense of women!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e22341	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr Karlsböck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e22362	Mr President. Minister! To adapt policy to the needs of time and the changed circumstances: Permanent sharpening, analyzing, optimizing is required and necessary. In part, it is fair to admit that Austrian foreign policy is able to do this – in approaches! – for example in Asia. I agree and I also agree that you are opening up a message in Singapore, a kind of rework, an important space to give more weight to the Asian countries. The biggest problem, however, is the refugee situation at the moment and the causes of the same situation – and – repeatedly discussed. On the one hand, these are located in the Middle East – I do not need to go closer to that. Maybe there's something to do with this: The active conference policy in Vienna is quite acknowledgmentable and also right in our eyes. On the other hand, however, there is a complete out-of-eight leave of the causes on the African continent. The so-called South Front is not observed by the Austrian side. In addition to headlines and symbolic activities – a few soldiers in Mali and one in Congo – Austria has little to show. This is completely obscene to me in the present situation. Austrian foreign policy and Austrian development cooperation and assistance must be completely rethinked and directed. We must no longer be satisfied with alibi treatments and with the distribution of the flows of money in principle. We need to force and promote bilateral projects, individual projects in the respective countries. Development aid today is far too long-term and too difficult and too anonymous. In concrete terms, I ask you to give the impetus, especially in Africa, Central and West Africa, where the causes of the Exodus are very specific to many millions of people in the lack of infrastructure, in the lack of health and social care and much more. This means that Austria with the scarce resources we have at our disposal, to promote concrete projects such as the development of basic health care in individual countries or the construction of a functioning waste disposal and the like. This can be done either bilaterally or with two or three other countries. That's where we have to think of completely new ways and go, I mean. The problem these countries have today is not based on the fact that these countries would not make it by themselves. It is not a lack of raw materials, but rather a lack of basic things, such as financing commitments, legal certainty, investment and stability. That is where we can help through an active development policy. Where a dollar has a multiple value, it is also helpful to use. We must not leave China and Asia to this market – I deliberately say market as well. They've known how it works for a few decades, and they've been active there. If not for humanitarian reasons, then there should be a commitment there for economic purposes and also for security reasons, because all the pipe materials important for our industrial production ultimately come from this continent. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e22410	Mrs Winzig. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e22432	Mr President. Foreign Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The objective of action 2 of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs includes safeguarding the international competitiveness of our economic and labour location. For our 60 percent export rate, we need an active foreign policy for our export economy, but also for investment abroad in order to secure and create domestic jobs. The restructuring measures of the Austrian embassy network have not only focused on foreign policy but also on economic relevance, and I can only welcome this, because our foreign minister shows that it is possible to implement the usual standard in the company service through cooperation with the External Economic Organisation of the Austrian Chamber of Commerce and through digital innovations despite scarce or limited resources. In addition to this important establishment of the company service, there is also a small but important area within the framework of the EZA – namely the economic partnerships, the colleague has already tailored it. There are currently 100 such partnerships with a funding volume of € 2 million. The private sector is the most important engine for the development of sustainable jobs in developing and emerging countries. There are currently 1.2 billion people without access to energy in the world. One can imagine the dramatic situation in the hygienic sector. Our companies have the know-how in many areas, especially in water supply, in energy supply, but our dual training is also a success model that is transferred to these countries. Mr Minister, I am pleased that you are working so constructively with the economy – unlike others. I am very disappointed by the aggressive self-sessing of Mr Pilz in the committee. So discussing is really old school and obedient, and I think our taxpayers have deserved to have an objective and constructive discussion. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to comment on Mr Korun's comments: They call for a policy for co-existence and equality. Yes, that is what we are calling for, but if I read today the interview with your Turkish countryman, the chairman of the Upper Austrian Muslims, it says: Women are mentally and physically weak, and men have decision-making power, then I see that integration is only done on one side, but not on the other.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e22474	Mrs Lintl is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e22496	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! This time I want to start with a praise. I really want to stress that our Foreign Minister is working to ensure that international conferences are held again in Vienna, the Iran Conference and now also the important Syria Conference. Thank you for that! [[Congratulations to representatives of the Stronach team.]] This is a very important sign for our neutral country and an important function. In addition, as one of the few, you have criticized the dependence of Europe on Turkey on the refugee issue and want to use yourself for financial consequences for those countries that only fail to secure the EU's external borders, especially Greece. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] However, the negative side-effect against all this praise is that there are no effective instruments to implement your plans in the appropriate party or in the government or in the EU. Austria has always sought particularly friendly relations with neighbouring countries. It is the responsibility of the Foreign Minister to maintain these – also to Hungary, and especially when direct accusations against Prime Minister Orbán come from Austria. Within the EU, Austria, like a preferential student, has very controversial decisions. In the context of Greece's aid and also the sanctions against Russia, I recall. Austria should not have carried such harmful sanctions for our economy, but should have acted courageously against them or could not carry them alone. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and the FPÖ representatives.]] This would have been an appropriate behaviour in view of the decades of good relations with our former Signatar power. I took part in the Berlin Security Conference last week. There, high-ranking representatives of the EU and NATO have already considered lifting economic sanctions against Russia due to the massive use of Russia against terrorism in Syria and good cooperation with the Western states. It would have been good for Austria to act as a neutral country from the outset. The 50-point integration plan of the Minister is also praiseworthy. This is an ambitious proposal. However, I do not believe that in a course of only eight hours, the mostly male asylum seekers can be taught a clear approach to women and their importance in our society. If this plan is to be implemented at all, it should be feared that it will also be The implementation of the new Islamic Law, which is still unable to enforce the Islamic principles of faith, will be carried out in a flat manner. Whether funding of the mosque associations from abroad is really understated is dubious. In addition, Muslim asylum seekers must be made clear that there is religious freedom in this country, but that only the practice of rites can be lived, but not Islamic law. This is where the Constitution applies. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team, as well as with representatives of the FPÖ.]] To deal with the refugee situation, aid on the ground is the most sustainable instrument, as Mr Vavrik and Mr Vavrik have already said. I have long called for massive support from refugee camps in Jordan and Lebanon. UNHCR reception centres must also be set up on site, in crisis regions. Austria spends the funds for development cooperation in accordance with the principle of foundry, much of it for bureaucracy and administration – in my opinion, too much of it – rather than specifically supporting refugee camps in the context of crisis regions. Improvements are essential in the field, and Austria could be more committed to this in the sense of an active foreign and security policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e22584	In order to make a corrective statement, the honourable Member has the power to do so. Korun to speak. You are aware of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e22608	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mrs.ck has spoken about a “landsman” I do not know. Rather, it is true that I own Austrian citizenship. The constant attempts at ethnicization and the racism of the ÖVP are simply unbearable.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e22648	Ladies and gentlemen, the first sentence was a correction, the second was no longer. Mrs Bayr is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e22672	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The SPÖ is thus blocking the three-year programme, says the Minister behind me in an interlocutory call to a speech by Mr Vavrik. We have actually negotiated relatively constructively so far. But if the Minister thinks we're blocking, obviously he's starting to prepare a media dagger legend. Uncontained observers often think that the Minister is more about his media presentation than about content and everything else. Yes, then nothing will remain for me except to present my view of what exactly is the SPÖ refusing its approval. In fact, we are refusing to operate labels, in fact, we are refusing, a three-year programme, which has been drawn up in a good, broad, very influential process by all the parliamentary parties, by NGOs, by all possible stakeholders who have something to do with development policy, which has been developed in The European Parliament has also expressed its support for the Commission's work programme on the development of the European Social Fund. When the working groups were completed after about half a year and the results were gathered, then at once on the front of the paper, not only was there a three-year programme – that is what everyone was invited to cooperate for – but, look at, then at one time the word "total strategy" of the Federal Government was found on the cover page, and that is simply not what it is. In fact, the government programme – and development policy is a rather slender chapter, everything in the field of foreign policy – contains four projects in this respect. One of them is an overall strategy of the Federal Government, which is still missing. I can understand that the ministry would like to save itself the work and not put this overall strategy into place with a broad involvement of all really on the ground, because that of course costs a lot of energy and work and strength, okay. However, this is not a reason for a label failure and no reason to draw up an overall strategy at all. The second objective in the government programme is to increase the funds of the foreign disaster fund. It is very fine that we also achieve this with the 2016 budget. Thirdly, it is a vote between the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, with regard to the IFIs, the strategy for the international financial institutions. It is a pity that the IFIs strategy was already ready before we started to discuss the three-year programme. And the fourth project is a legally sound stage plan to achieve the 0.7 percent of gross national product for development cooperation. A legal level plan includes not only legal safeguards, but also, of course, the question of a financial pact with the Minister of Finance. If Mr Huainigg believes that this is the task of the Federal Chancellor, then I would very much like to accept this re-developmental child-retirement, but then we make it smooth and join Section VII, which deals with development policy in the BMEIA, again in the Federal Chancellery. If you obviously don't want to, not able, unable, I don't know what, are to take care of development cooperation, then we'll do it back to the Federal Chancellor's Office. She had been well removed for many years, which could be the better alternative.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e22723	The next speaker is Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e22745	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Yes, Federal Minister, I am very pleased that you accepted a request from me after our last week committee. I have mentioned there that Greece does not fulfil its task and does not carry out border controls or the registration of incoming refugees. They have said there that Greece is getting €7 million from the EU for this, and yet it does not. I told you that there would have to be financial consequences. Greece is not only getting bank support, the European Union is keeping it from the pleite, it is giving extra money there, and this is not used properly. I have often pointed out from the speaker's desk that Greece is very pompous. It has a huge government, which is much larger, more than double the size of the Austrian government. In all countries, Greece has In Austria, they are very pompously built, while in Austria they are saved. I have already mentioned the Baltic in this context, which is very dear to my heart. They want to close all the messages there, which I think is a mistake. I think it is important that we show our fingers on Greece. When the ferry strike was in Greece, we learned that then no more refugees came. No one can explain to me that if you drive these people from the islands to the mainland with a ferry, you cannot register them, as is actually foreseen by European law. Mr Foreign Minister, I urge you to exert pressure at European level to carry out these registrations, so that Greece is packed on the Krawattl and shown to them how to implement European law, rather than just cashing the European funds. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I have one further concern: the European Development Bank. We talked about projects. Why do these refugees even come? – There are very many economic refugees, we know; they are not only refugees of war, but most of them have no right to asylum. The point is that you have to invest in the regions, you have to see that you create jobs. For this, the European Development Bank is here, which makes this excellent. However, I hear today that the funding for this European Development Bank has been reduced by the Finance Minister from € 20 million to € 15 million, i.e. by 25 percent. In today's situation, in which we know exactly that people down there must have a perspective so that they don't have to flee, take such steps. I think that's wrong. That is why – unfortunately, my speaking time has already been exhausted – I urge you to take the right path, to take the right steps for Europe, to take the right steps for Austria and to represent our country well, not as you have done so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e22799	Next speaker: Mr Christ. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e22820	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Foreign Minister! High house! As South Tyrol spokesperson and member of the South Tyrol Subcommittee, I am of course interested in the budget debate, in particular the direct financial contributions of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for South Tyrol and which forms of cooperation and joint projects may be in preparation. There's much to be found! Only the overall association of South Tyroleans in Austria will continue to receive an annual funding of around €10 000. I looked at the homepage. This association manages around 7 000 members in seven national associations and 20 branch associations throughout Austria – not uninterestingly, a look at this homepage, including the guide and the like. Clearly more than € 10 000 are employed in the cultural and educational budget. At least there is much more than €200 000. In particular, there remains contact care for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, cooperation when it comes to political issues, such as the Italian constitutional reform or the further expansion of autonomy or, for example, the issue of double citizenship, which we should actually deal with in a timely manner. Ladies and gentlemen, as I was allowed to get rid of the media, the South Tyrol head of state were Compatscher and the chairman of the South Tyrol People's Party Philipp Achammer in Vienna yesterday at the Deputy Chancellor and the Foreign Minister. Interestingly, once again the members of the South Tyrol Committee were not informed of this visit and its contents, although this would actually be agreed. I think that this is also the case of the head of the South Tyrol state who, who promised us, all the political groups in April, to inform us better, more clearly and more often, what he has not done so far, is not all right, and I will tell him personally. Well, in the next committee, we will ask questions. There are enough topics that either belong to final treatment or are currently in the process of consultation. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e22869	Mr Heinzl came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e22890	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! High house! Austria and in particular the Federal Capital of Vienna have been able to establish themselves very successfully in the last half of the year as a venue for high-ranking international conferences and peace negotiations. ==References== As you know, the historic pact for the Iranian nuclear program was signed in Vienna, which enabled the ice age between Iran and the USA and its allies to be overcome for almost 30 years. International talks have been taking place since the end of October to find a peaceful way out of the civil war in Syria. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! How serious the danger that the war will become a major international conflict there has been demonstrated this morning, as you know, when Turkey shot off a Russian fighter jet flying into Syria. This example shows that an active foreign policy focusing on diplomatic solutions to crises is the command of the hour. We need UN peacekeeping measures, which are among the core competences of the UN and its organisations. Mr Foreign Minister, I hope that the budget cuts in contributions to international organisations of about €15 million will not endanger this objective. We need a UN peacekeeping force for Syria and not the muscle games of individual states that pursue their own interests in the region. I am therefore very glad that our Minister of Defence has clearly expressed his support for continuing to participate in the UN mission in Mali in order to ensure stability and security on site, because only one solution on the ground can in the long run also clarify the question of refugees. This applies to Mali as well as Syria.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e22927	I call Mr Wenninger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e22949	Mr President. Minister! Minister! High house! As probably the last speaker on the sub-division of foreign policy, I would like to stress that, despite different approaches, it was a very constructive discussion and it is one of the strengths of the Austrian Parliament to develop common foreign policy positions. If there are, above all, different approaches on the part of the FPÖ, I would like to make a positive mention of Mr Karlsböck's comments. We're... In a world where there is not only peace, prosperity and security, those values which we are trying to defend quite massively right now, but also in a world in which two billion people live under the most severe poverty conditions in which every sixth person suffers from hunger, in which a child dies from malnutrition every six seconds. That this world is a world moving towards us, we have felt dramatically in recent weeks and months. As long as a good part of our prosperity is based on exploitation of man and nature in the developing countries, it is no wonder that people are getting on their way to catch a little bit of this cake. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Foreign Minister! Today's debate has shown that we need an active Austrian foreign, peace and development policy, that we should no longer discuss the height and length of fences, but concrete measures, a Marshall Plan for Africa and the support of developing countries. The SPÖ will You certainly don't stop it, quite the contrary, we're happy to take you by the hand.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e22988	There are no more words to be spoken on the sub-division. This is the subject that is being dealt with. [[19:30:52]] UG 11: Internals
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e23009	We come to the negotiation of Division 11: Inside. Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Darmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e23034	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of Estimated Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! High house! Values Advisors! In order to follow up on the comments made by Mr Weninger: Indeed, peace, prosperity and security are not self-evident. That is why it is also necessary to ensure their safety, ladies and gentlemen. Budget is known to be cast into figures policy. But if we take this winged word, then I must say that there is just a point of view in the field of internal security, ladies and gentlemen. Especially in the interior area, we are faced with new challenges in the present, but also in the near and distant future, and thus also with new tasks for our security executive. These tasks are already known. I only recall the organized crime to be fought, cybercrime, which is to be opposed, to the protection of critical infrastructure, which is of course to be valued accordingly. But now there are also new challenges due to modern international migration. There are developments in this modern international migration, which would be there: on the one hand religious and ideologically motivated terrorism, on the other hand, but on the other hand also genuinely imported social and ethnic conflicts that come upon us, ladies and gentlemen. For this purpose, budgetary provision should also be made in the Interior. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If we approach the budget in the interior with a quick look superficially, then we have to admit, admittedly: Yeah, there's a plus. There is a Plus, and we would like to believe that these challenges are being taken into account, Minister of the Interior. However, if we look at this in detail, then there is another picture, because essentially the plus in the interior is due to the fact that there is also greater provision in this area due to the extra expenditure in basic supply. That is to say, asylum is primarily responsible for the increase in the interior area, and there is no provision for the 1,000 police you have promised in the so-called border protection, Mrs Interior Minister, nor a provision for the other 1,000 police officers you have promised for a week in the fight against terrorism. You yourself know that in the budget, we have set up a total of 99 executive posts, not one of you announced 2 000 planning posts, which would normally have to be visible in the budget. This is something, ladies and gentlemen, that you have to say to the Austrian population, when you try to prefer it a more security in the field of internal security. This is not given. And since, Madam Minister of the Interior and ladies and gentlemen, especially the Federal Government, you are required to finally take action. They are required not only to talk about everything but finally to act and also to ensure that the necessary additional plans are finally created in the field of executive services. Not just talking about it, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Considering the budget and the tax burden on taxpayers, due to the increasing costs of basic supply as a result of international migration, it should also be borne in mind that taxpayers are equally affected by the very, very long-term asylum procedures. In this area, of course, private associations and NGOs are involved, which are financed by the taxpayer and supported by the Interior, whose basic task seems to be to delay asylum procedures for as long as possible. Commissioner for the Interior, it is a state duty to ensure rapid asylum procedures. The Ministry of the Interior must ensure that the procedures are carried out in accordance with the law and in a speedy manner, Minister of the Interior. For this reason, we make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, especially those of the government groups SPÖ and ÖVP, will also meet your responsibility in the interests of taxpayers! – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e23143	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e23200	Next speaker: Mr Amon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e23237	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Darmann, it is, of course, the task of criticizing the opposition. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] However, it would be very nice if you were to make a little difference about the budget at hand. If one follows the remarks of the liberal speakers over the course of the day, then one actually finds that nothing is in this budget at all. It's all bad. [[Demonstrative applause by representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Interim calls at the FPÖ as well as the Abg. Tamandl.]] – This applause really goes empty, because it is not, especially not in the security budget. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] The 2016 financial estimate is about €498 million more than the 2015 estimate, and that is not all, because you, Mr Darmann, know very well the package we have also agreed on. Mrs Bundesminister, this is a very, very great success of your negotiations. I would like to congratulate you on this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Darmann.]] That we will get more in the next few years by 2,000 police officers... [[Abg. Darmann:... promised for next year!]] - I don't know why you can't recognize that. Don't be angry with me, it was the absolutely right reaction to say in a crisis situation, we don't just need an extra one for our police officers... [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Belakovich-Jenewein and Mr Darmann.]] . You know very well, Mr Darmann, that this agreement was reached after the budget had been presented. [[Abg. Darmann: (a document holding in height) 99 are budgeted!]] You have also heard from the Committee that this is done in a supplementary budget. There is no need here in plenary to act as if you had no idea. [[Interruption with the ÖVP and the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] You know it very well, and this is and remains a great success of our Federal Minister. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: That we already know we have a wrong budget?- Oh, my God!]] By the way, I would like to invite you from the FPÖ, because you are very much a security party. Whenever it comes to the question of whether you agree to measures that bring more security, please say good-bye, because you are less likely to take responsibility here in the house. That's actually unfortunate. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Please give a concrete example!]] We are now discussing a new law of state protection in a very intense and serious way. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] I am very excited, really excited whether you will be willing to give our Federal Office for Constitutional Protection and Anti-Terrorism the means needed in a very sensitive and difficult time so that it can protect the Austrians safely. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Wheeler.]] [[Abg. Kassinger: Pioneer the citizen even further!]] [[Calls and calls between representatives of FPÖ and ÖVP.]] I am very excited to see if the FPÖ is ready to go there. [[Call the FPÖ:SPÖ!]] – We talk to the SPÖ, we have very good conversations. Don't worry if we get together within the government groups. [[Abg. Lausch:... Government parties!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] Look, that's already in the government agreement. You do not need to worry at all that the parliamentary parties – the government has already decided – will present this here. I am very excited whether you are prepared by the FPÖ to take this responsibility, because it is not possible that you constantly criticize everything, you sometimes also have to be willing to assume responsibility. I cordially invite you, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e23451	The next item is the report by Mr Pilz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e23472	Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! After me, Otto Pendl will speak, and I would like to express my thanks to the officials he will give me. [[Congratulation with greens and SPÖ.]] [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] [[Call the ÖVP: Otto makes it better!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister! First of all, something about the budget: A fundamental principle of the budget to be observed in this House is budgetary truth. They have surprised us in the committee on my question – and I was, honestly, a little: Where are the thousands of new officials employed next year budgeted?, said: They are not in the budget, only 250 of them are budgeted. Mrs Bundesminister, I ask you to repeat this in the plenary session of the National Council. You told us at the end of the budget committee that you were presenting us with a wrong budget. You now have two options: either to correct the budget via an amendment request and to budget or say to these 750 officials and officials: I don't care if the right thing is, I have a majority anyway. However, this would be a clear violation of the constitutional principles, and we in Parliament are urged to comply with them. I therefore ask you to: Keep your budget in order until Thursday and make sure that we get a true budget presented to the chapter Inners! - That's the first one. The second thing is: They make new proposals every day, as we can tighten the laws in the fight against terrorism and many others. Their last two proposals not only exceed a certain one but soon every border. These are the proposal for a foothold for returnees from Syria and the proposal for house arrest for suspected terrorists and terrorists. I'll start at the footstool once. The pedestal has a sense of punishment so that one can determine at any time where a person is located and whether it deviates from the conditions of the execution of the sentence. What do you want to do with a footstool for people who are not persecuted, but who are suspected of you? They have no limit to moving somewhere. [[Abg. Wheelers:... monitor them!]] - Watch? They obviously imagine this: If the terrorist snaps the explosive belt and goes to the place of his attack, he looks down and says: Jessas, I have a foot shackle, then I don't do it! – This way of combating terrorism, Mrs Federal Minister, is technically not illuminating. [[Cheerfulness with Greens and SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Please consider this again! Please consider whether this is really a sensible measure to license only boulevard-oriented and always when the Freedom Party makes a senseless proposal to say: I'm going to think of something more crazy, I can keep up with it! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Mrs Bundesminister, this is a political competition that a member of the government is not worthy of. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I think that the demand for house arrest is much more difficult for suspects. You already have very large and basically reasonable legal possibilities. Where, for example, a terrorist association is formed or advertised for it, the criminal justice can be suspended at any time for the risk of crime. There are all legal requirements. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] However, if you want to impose a criminal law where no one in the sense of Austrian justice and the rule of law is a suspect, then we are in a completely different legal system, which is no longer worthy of the name of the legal system. You know the European Convention on Human Rights. This proposal for arbitrary house arrest is clearly contrary to Article 5 of the European Convention on Human Rights. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] You know the Federal Constitutional Law on the Protection of Personal Freedom and you know very well that your proposal is also contrary to this Constitutional Law beyond criminal proceedings and criminal procedure. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Now I am reading to you something from a law that your prior-prior-ahead political ancestors once imposed in this sense. [[Abg. Rädler: Read something about your ancestors!]] In this case, it is a regulation, i.e. a legal provision. I quote: “The Bundeskanzler and its empowerment of security directors (in Vienna of the President of the Police) may promote or encourage persons who are in the dubious suspicion to prepare acts of anti-state or other public security, or to promote, or encourage, the conduct or preparation of such actions, in order to prevent disturbances of public peace, order and security, to stay in a particular place or territory.” — That is from 25. ==References== At the same time, he who should do this said – I quote –: "In order to document this clearly, it should be said that only yesterday I signed the new emergency regulation, which allows people not only to be put behind castles and bars, but before, if it is assumed that the activity of these persons is not flawless. (Fulfilment by storm. ) “ [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] At that time it was said towards social democracy: This is exclusively against the National Socialists, don't worry, it's only against the National Socialists, and without it, it's not possible. [[Abg. Timer: Eternal!]] My father, then a young man, has been imprisoned under this regulation. There are many in this Republic who are very, very careful and rightly very careful when suddenly such proposals come. Today it's called house arrest, then it's called safe. Mrs Bundesminister, I do not support it, but I warn you that in a very delicate situation, in which it is a matter of security, but also of freedom to subscribe to this licensing process. We know from France: Less freedom will no longer bring security. The main task of the National Council is to ensure that constitutional rights, our citizens' rights and our human rights are respected in every situation, including in a security-politically suppressed situation. I would ask you, Mrs Federal Minister, to maintain this respect and this constitutionality in your public statements and legislative proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e23617	The next item is the speech by Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e23639	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Even though you, Peter Pilz, started by thanking me, I mean that in a very busy time of security policy thanks not only to the police, but also to all the NGOs and all those Austrians who helped in this difficult time to cope with the challenges. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP, Greens, NEOS and Team Stronach.]] So I'm all the more surprised – you don't need to thank you anyway, you can also laugh at everything – all the more surprised I am, colleague Darmann: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein]] We have often put very factual and good discussions behind us, but that is not all right, that is indifferent if you want to exclude all NGOs. What the NGOs will think, I will leave it to you now. But it is a bear service if you simply put in such a delicate, very sensitive discussion a request that requires you to exclude the NGOs from the standard. I don't think that's necessary, and you don't need that either, I'd think. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Darmann.]] In the field of security, we should lead the debate unafraidly – I try to mention it again and again – in the interests of humanity and simply committed to the matter. I also say that it is not without standards, it is not without regulation. From me I even say, there or there it is not without a certain hardness, but always with an eye and always on the ground of the rule of law. As I said at another point today, it is always the same with the budget: Nobody wants debt, but everyone wants to still have a plus at a budget in a difficult time. But if you look at it – and you know it just as I know – how many millions are being provided for the classical security sector as well as in the next few years the equipment continues! And now I'm saying, Don't do that! Those who know themselves know exactly what a plan is, who know what a supplementary budget is, and so on. And we also know that once you've been far advanced in a budget, you don't get rid of it anymore. It is important that there is the declaration of will at the political level to increase staff and rework resources from other resorts. That's all known, that's all the same as reality. Let us not make the mistake of talking good, prepared measures in terms of soil and soil. This is not necessary for those concerned – whether they are transferred or re-entered – nor for us, nor for the security sector at all. I invite you now to ensure that we implement all the measures we have taken together. The Austrians will need it. I really invite that we can implement these sensitive areas by a broad majority and with great approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e23708	Next, Mr Magistrate. Alm to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e23735	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! When Mr Pendl speaks of a plus, he means – I suppose – the plus for the interior resort that will have more money at his disposal. But you also have to say where it comes from. The reason, of course, is also because more is needed for asylum and refugees. This, of course, does not cover all the expected expenditure. We know that the Minister of State has already knocked on the so-called integration stop, and I have heard 15 million € here – last I heard 30 million € – of this binder. Other ministries have already reported. In total, these €75 million are obviously not sufficient. [[Abg. Pendl: Look at the remaining numbers too!]] In any case, it will be exciting negotiations, as you yourself say, and I also wish you good luck in this respect. In the approximately half billion € budgeted for refugees and asylum, the so-called transit refugees are not included. The Minister also admitted to the Committee that she did not know how many people would come. But what does that mean? Does that mean that you are not taking any precautions in this case at all? Can you be surprised again? It should also be possible, on the basis of experience, to estimate how many people can be expected and how the development can be accommodated in a budget. The situation has not improved, and there is no reason to believe that a calming is taking place. Overall, the government has a little planless effects on the subject of asylum and refugees, and this non-planning is also reflected in the budget, especially when it does not take into account expected costs, such as in the area of constitutional protection and in the area of the forthcoming State Protection Act, where there are also increased costs. We now call for a total monitoring account almost weekly, but only because you come with new ideas every week. This week it is the house arrest, the foot shackles, the week before that it was federal trojans. Every second week it is the storage of data. We want to set up a monitoring account to evaluate what measures are at all effective, which are proportionate and which are still necessary. In the context of the budget, of course, it would be interesting to take such a thing as a total of surveillance into account, so that we know how expensive this fun actually is, because we assume that in the future we will have to budget a storage of data again. Every day a new minister, a new minister as a fan of this storage of data. Prior to the summer, Minister Brandstetter – I quote – meant: ‘No, there is currently no concrete project to reintroduce the so-called stock data storage or arbitrary alternatives.’ That was a little suspicious in my formulation at the time. He has now become a little clearer. However, it is still not quite clear to me what he means – I quote from a recent APA message: “Moreover, the Minister of Justice expressed a ‘reasonable degree’ of data storage.” Now, of course, we're wondering: What is a reasonable measure? The most reasonable measure would, of course, be to have no data storage. But it is to be feared that the Minister meant the opposite. I appeal again to the SPÖ at this point, as I did before. Mr Stöger has also repeated himself in this matter – even there is a quote –: “But I can say again that I see no need for a re-introduction of data storage.” – Quotes. I hope we can take him to the floor, and you will act accordingly. Collecting stock data is nothing but an expression of convenience, because of course it is easier to collect this data instead of specifically identifying it. In the course of the State Protection Act, we always only discuss the extension of powers, which leads to greater data retention. We do not discuss how we can restore these powers if they have become unnecessary. Nor do we discuss how to increase the quality of the investigation. The problem cannot be struck with quantity. Mass surveillance is nothing but homeopathy. It is expensive, it is proven to be completely ineffective, and it prevents, above all, effective measures. The relevant data obtained will be diluted so far that they can't be perceived at all at all. There are so many data that they can no longer be processed in time. This energy of data collection should be directed towards the development of modern, focused, fundamental right-saving investigation methods. But this is not happening in the budget. Why don't we discuss Quick-Freeze? I'm not a big fan of Quick-Freeze, but the idea of pressing and storing a record key related to it would be a great progress in the discourse around the stock data. [[President Hofer gives the bell sign.]] – I suppose I have one more sentence available, so back to the budget. Security costs something. Let us take this into account in the future in the cost of modern development methods: Please be fundamental, focused – and not massy and unscrupulous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e23781	Now comes the honourable Member Mag, who has been struck by impatience. Gerstl speaking. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e23802	Mr President. Excuse me, Mr Alm, that I have overlooked this. Because of the short speaking time, I would like to get to the point very quickly. Firstly, the budget of the Ministry of the Interior is over €3 billion for the first time. A warm thanks to the Minister of the Interior, a warm thanks to the Minister of Finance and a warm thanks, above all to the Secretary of State at the Federal Chancellor's Office, who also provides the necessary planning facilities for this. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I cannot understand Green and NEOS that, in times like this, they are still not ready to give an interior minister the necessary support, as is the case for the safety of Austria is necessary. Of course, this includes a state protection law – and I've just looked at it: Mr Pilz even said in February 2015 – that is, ten months ago – that a state protection law is correct and necessary. I believe that he should remain in this opinion, because it is necessary that people can not only be observed because of a specific suspicion of crime, but also that, if there is a likelihood of a threat to Austria and the Austrians, constitutional protection can take the necessary measures. This is what all Austrians want, that is what all Austrians expect. And I beg you: Give up the resistance of green and NEOS for the security of Austria! Ladies and gentlemen, I also believe that the current situation has clearly shown that we need data storage. In the case of a suspected suspect of Paris, who had previously driven through Austria: If he would have used a mobile phone in Austria – an Austrian mobile phone – and we would have the storage of data, then we would have had the chance to view the networks of him and to know exactly who was connected to them, and in this way to discover another network. Ladies and gentlemen, you prevent this by not allowing a so-called storage of data. Ladies and gentlemen, thirdly, I believe that further legislative measures are necessary – an emergency law – so that in such situations as those we are currently in, we do not have to find the way out with today's Constitution, where there is a general competence for the countries and not for emergency measures to the Federation. I believe that there is a need for constant and rapid improvement.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e23857	Mr Hagen. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e23878	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Border police for border surveillance – this is an application that we have made by the Stronach team since spring, it has been postponed or rejected in the committees over and over again. A few weeks ago, the Federal Minister took him over in content. I think that's positive. Upper limit for refugees: This is also the content of a request from the Stronach team, which was also rejected or postponed in committee. A few days ago, the Federal Minister took over him. I also find that positive. I would perhaps like to address the current political situation in general. It has already been mentioned by some colleagues: The costs in the budget for the effort with asylum seekers – yes, they have increased. The Ministry of the Interior really has a higher budget, but it has also increased costs for asylum seekers, and that has its reason I can explain to you. It always means: More cops. That is only the case because it is a question of designation. Administrative officials may also be police officers – it’s true, they’re also doing activities for police officers – but they’re not executive foreign officials who are there for the security of the local population. There's a huge lack of it. The officials are being deducted and – are we already done? , the lamp is still dark – moved into the interior service. [[President Hofer gives the bell sign quietly]] [[Interlocutory calls to representatives of the ÖVP]] That means you have to reschedule. So we need more executive officials in the field, less in the administration. I mean, the problem is not just yours, the problem is that we bind officials in with these asylum tasks, but should actually have them outside for security so that people can sleep quietly again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e23934	Mr Pilz spoke on business. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e23957	Mr President. I expressly welcome the fact that the honourable Member's free speech was not restricted, but I would point out that this was a non-conformity on the part of the Bureau, because before this budget chapter, the Stronach team had already spent the entire speaking time. But I would just say that I think it makes sense in the next presidency to talk about how to deal with other political groups in such a flexible way with the day-to-day blockage time and to make exceptions here if the need for Members is present, although it would no longer be allowed to speak.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e23987	Are there any further statements on business treatment? - That's not the case. Mr Pilz, I agree that the mistake is mine, not with the employees. I personally overlooked this. Mr President, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. It's more often that you're getting over something. But the mistake was entirely alone with me; I like to clear it up. Mrs Bundesminister Mag has now come to speak. Mikl- Leitner. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e24017	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen! High house! Security in our country, security in our Republic will continue to be the top priority, it will continue to have priority. I think we can all say: We are proud – proud that we can live in one of the safest countries in the world, that Austria is one of the safest countries in the world. We all know that the challenges in the security field are getting less and less. I am thinking here of phenomena such as cybercrime, terrorism and extremism – a subject that we need to discuss widely in the coming weeks, in the coming months, because it must be our common goal to minimise the risks of dangerous attacks to the population. I am already inviting a very broad discussion with an open source, because I am firmly convinced that it is important and right not to suffocate the discussion in the germ and then wake up when something has already happened in this Republic. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But of course the topic of migration will also accompany us in the next few months, in the next few years. For all these challenges, there are dedicated, well-trained employees – more than 33,000 in the number – in the executive sector and in the administration that guarantee security around the clock and strengthen the security of people in our country. It also needs financial resources, and I would like to say a warm thank you because the Federal Ministry of the Interior has over €3 billion in budget for the first time. A particular topic I would like to highlight is the huge challenge in the area of migration flows: Migration flows from the crisis regions of Syria, Afghanistan, Iraq, where thousands of people flee from violence, from terror to get protection and help in other countries and especially in Europe. Austria has a double responsibility, a double challenge. Austria is not only transit country, but also, above all, destination country. As you know, since the beginning of September more than 500 000 people have come to Austria or have gone through it. Of these 500 000 people, 25 000 have sought asylum. At the end of October, there were over 67,000 people who applied for asylum in our country. This is an increase of more than 234 percent compared to the previous year. And behind each asylum application is a person, behind every asylum application is a refugee who, of course, also needs to be accommodated and relocated. Therefore, in recent months it has been a huge challenge to create quarters. The federal government, together with the countries, has succeeded in re-establishing more than 35 000 quarters, saying that it doubles capacity. In the meantime, over 70,000 people are in basic care, where they are cared for and cared for by both the federal government and the country. In addition, it is also about transit quarters. The 20 000 transit quarters have now been created to provide, in particular, those people who want to move on to Germany. This was primarily a huge organisational challenge, and I would like to say a warm thank you to all those involved: the police, the federal army, the NGOs, the entire civilian population, because it has done great things, and I am not here to say thank you not only, but above all, to ask for the next weeks and for the next months. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] That's one. In addition, financial resources are also needed for this huge challenge. That is why I am glad that the entire Federal Government and the Finance Ministers agreed that the budget appropriations for the entire migration area should be increased for 2016 and that more budget appropriations have been estimated. We will also need more flexibility in this area in the next few months, because none of us can predict exactly how these migration flows will develop. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, there are also, of course, huge security challenges. We all remember the terrorist attacks of the last few months in different places, especially the terrorist attacks in Paris, with our thoughts among the victims, the relatives, and even the whole of France. These attacks show us that none of us with 100% security can rule out terrorist attacks, yes, even in Austria. We have to admit one thing: terror has arrived in the middle of Europe, in the heart of Europe. And it is important to be extremely sensitive, especially to take the risks seriously. And precisely this federal government has taken these dangers which terrorists have taken for a long time very seriously and has already put in place measures in this regard, measures particularly in the field of specialization, not only in the field of operations but above all in the legal field. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Where is the sensitivity?]] [[Abg. Darmann: No border controls yet!]] I am thinking here of measures in the field of state protection, in the area of the Federal Criminal Office or also in the Special Unit. In addition, some immediate measures were taken by the Directorate-General immediately following the Paris attacks. I am thinking here of the veils, the reinforced observation measures, the increased structural investigations and, above all, the strengthening of our analysis department in the field of constitutional protection. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kumpitsch.]] That is to say, there are many measures which we have reinforced here in view of the increased risk situation. When we look at these terrorist attacks, when we think of the fight against terrorism, we know that there is a lot to be experienced here. That is why we will continue to force and promote this specialistism in the future, especially in terms of quality, but also in terms of quantity. I am grateful to the entire Federal Government for the entire security offensive package, for the 288 million € terrorist package, i.e. 72 million annually, with the aim of strengthening, above all, the means of use, protective equipment, observation technology, IT equipment, so also investing in the field of specialization, especially in personnel equipment, in more personnel. In addition to this huge challenge, however, we must not forget the other fields. I am thinking here of burglary crime, cybersecurity or drug crime. This is where we have developed a strategy, the strategy “INN.SICHER”, and with this strategy we want to give concrete answers to each individual challenge. Since this strategy set up in 2010, we have developed 113 projects, especially to make the interior resort future fit. By the end of the year, 86 projects have been implemented to meet these challenges and, above all, to push forward reforms. Yeah, if that's what you want: We as the Ministry of the Interior also understand ourselves as the Ministry of Reform, because it is simply important to be at the heart of the time to achieve all of this with the most modern strategies and the most modern measures. For the year 2016, we have made four main topics: First of all, security and protection. This includes the whole area of combating property crime, combating extremism and terrorism, including the whole area of violent crime. The second wide range of topics is, of course, the whole area of asylum and migration. Third-large area is staff and organisation. The focus here is mainly on professional personnel management, on which we can also guarantee a high-performance organisational structure. The fourth focus is the horizontal focus. This means, above all, better international networking with the other authorities, it is also meant, above all, better communication both inside and outside in order to achieve the best results. You will see, therefore, that in 2016 we set very high targets, that we have very high tasks to achieve, and that we are well equipped with the 2016 budget, in order to be able to best master these challenges. I am particularly grateful to you for supporting this budget, and above all I should like to thank you for the ever-increasing discussions on security among security speakers as well as in the committees. A number of detailed questions have also been discussed in detail in the Financial Committee. Some questions have been raised where we will have to consider next spring in order to adjust the budget for all these projects, which we are ultimately seeking. In this sense, I can also say a warm thank you to my house and generally to the entire team of the BMI, whether at the headquarters or outside on site.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e24096	Mrs Lueger's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e24117	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! You said it yourself now: There are several points in the interior area of the payout focus, one is the personnel area, the second area is the equipment and equipment for the executive, which are of course enormously important, the basic provision, civil service and provision of the necessary infrastructure. I only have one question on the security offensive, Mrs. Minister. In the evening edition of tomorrow’s newspaper, they demand € 288 million for state protection, for tank vehicles, for helicopters, and the Cobra is new – which in principle is not negative. But my question is: ==References====External links== In January 2015, a decision was taken. Are these 290 million who were then? Then you sold them again in the newspaper of tomorrow. And the second question concerns this €72 million, which has also appeared in the budget, to which you have not yet been able to tell us what they are used for. The release for tomorrow says that you want to upgrade the special areas. That would be an exciting question for me, which would still have to be clarified in this regard.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e24150	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Kumpitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e24172	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. ==References== You said to the “Kronen Zeitung” of October, Mrs. Federal Minister: “Our police need permanent reinforcement. They do enormous work and have been moving at the load limit for weeks". I can only confirm this statement. It is true that in the 2016 draft budget for asylum and security, €886 million are budgeted, but for additional costs in basic supply, integration or labour market integration. However, it does not take into account the announced preference of 1,000 already agreed planning posts for the police, in case of need even of 2,000 police officers or 500 employees of the Federal Office for Foreign Affairs and Asylum. How much one can trust such announcements, I experienced in 2010 – there were just country elections in Styria. At that time, the former Minister of State Fekter and our current head of state Schützenhofer concluded a security pact which promised us 300 additional planning points. What's left of it? – A security-political ballast. Instead of 300 more police officers, we have received a new security concept, namely the closure of 23 police stations. [[Abg. Plessl: Fusion, please! Amalgamation!]] The consequences of this rigorous saving course are not only now for the executives, but were already present before the wave of migration and refugees and are now accepting unbearable dimensions. If the colported reception of 1,700 police officers is actually implemented, then only 700 planning points for the post-occupying of retirement are to be taken into account. What remains is: Police at the limit of their performance will be moved from one place to another without being asked without any response to their social conditions or their health. Police on the border need to see helplessly and without sufficient support as illegal migrants cross the border. Yes, I even go so far as to say that they are being stopped for the abuse of office because they are not allowed to intervene at all. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What remains is that police services are temporarily closed and security strips cannot be carried out because the personnel are missing. What remains is the concern of the population, as well as the lack of staff. I therefore call on you, Madam Minister, to recognize the seriousness of the situation and to support our executives in all matters so that they can fulfil their mission to protect the population, but also not remain on the road. [[New welcome to the FPÖ.]] In this context, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I call on all the colleagues in the House to whom the police really are at their heart to support this motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e24241	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e24299	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Smoking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e24320	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! In fact, the Ministry of the Interior's budget is around €3 billion, and the Minister has presented how many areas of this budget are used, as security has to cover a wide range of issues. One of my previous speakers, Peter Pilz, says he doesn't understand that the minister is always making new proposals. . Well, I expect a Minister of the Interior to see you, if the security situation changes, of course make proposals. He's got to. I am actually glad that precisely these proposals are coming, and we can then, of course, discuss them in the House. Because of the short speaking time, I really want to deal with only three things in concrete terms. I think it really is worth mentioning the anti-terrorism package decided by the Federal Government, which now provides €72 million each year in order to be better equipped in the anti-terrorist field. Unfortunately, how important this is also show us the tragic events in recent years. How quickly and flexibly the Ministry of the Interior reacts also shows an example from my native Tyrol. There is an additional basic course in which training time is reduced to bring young officials to the border faster. The situation in Tyrol is well known, and we are currently under great pressure due to the number of asylum seekers entering the country. It shows how the budget is adjusted in a very flexible way. The security situation also shows how well the budget is used: The development of crime in Tyrol has declined. So you see, the budget is targeted, whether it be in the field of asylum, whether it be in the field of anti-terrorism, or in the fight against classical crime. To this end, the Minister and all her employees can only be congratulated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e24362	Next, Mrs Mag. Korun to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e24384	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In view of the danger of being reminded by so-called colleagues of the ÖVP of supposed countrymen who are likely to share Mr Franz's women's image – in the meantime ÖVP Parliamentary Club – I will allow myself to also let an ÖVP member know my opinion. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, the accommodation of protection seekers is currently a challenge, not only for Austria but also for other countries. It must never be forgotten, however, that there have been more challenging times in the history of this Republic, such as 1956, 1957, as 180,000 Hungarian refugees, or a few years later 162,000 refugees from Czechoslovakia. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Not all that hangs is a comparison!]] Mrs. Belakovich-Jenewein, I know you can also repeat this with the lump proletariat here. By the way, I also find it interesting that most of your voters come from the proletariat, namely workers and workers. They will probably be very interested to hear what you say about your electorate. – So much to your values. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: If you do not know, you can read it!]] – Yes, just keep talking, just keep talking! I know the calls are the speciality of the FPÖ. [[Abg. Darmann: This belongs to parliamentarism!]] What I wanted to point out is an interesting turning point in our political discussions in Parliament. Before, from September onwards, the number of asylum seekers in our country has increased so massively, especially the ÖVP, but also the FPÖ has repeatedly said that one has to separate the areas of asylum, i.e. asylum, and migration very strictly, one must not mix it together, because one is the human right to protection from persecution, the human right to asylum, and the other is, for example, labour migration. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: They have already risen in May!]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: This is still valid!]] The interesting thing is that since September, in all ÖVP’s debates – including the Minister of the Interior – and also by the colleagues of the FPÖ, asylum and migration have been constantly mentioned in a breath. Now, of course, I don't imagine that this hint is something... [[Abg. Höbart: You always say that!]] – Yes, just scream in, Mr Höbart. What about the earth and cave people? - An old hat, exactly! [[Abg. Hoebart: This is an old hat!]] We're waiting for new hats from you, because they'll be coming pretty soon. [[Call to the FPÖ:Have you already been to Traiskirchen?]] [[Subsequent calls to the FPÖ.]] – Cry, cry out quietly, so that everyone can hear how you act in Parliament. [[Abg. Wheeler: Left hetze!]] “Left hetze” also screams Mr. Rädler! Exactly: “Linke Hetze”, that was what happened to Mr Rädler when Mr Walser discussed the racism of the FPÖ against kindergarten children. There, Mr. Rädler had nothing to call for but ‘left hetze’. Interestingly, in one of the following speeches, he called again “right hetze”; this is if one has no political line and no values, which is always the case. Ladies and gentlemen, just you talk about the ÖVP all the time about the values. It seems that the ancestral passport obviously belongs to these values. Mrs. Minzig is now thank God again, and we could then exchange which countrymen belong to whom. [[Abg. Rädler: What are your complexes?]] And unfortunately, you have not answered the question of me, as your fellow countryman Dr. Marcus Franzsees, who does not seem to hold much of women's rights either. [[Abg. Höbart: What does this have to do with the budget?]] I know the truth is reasonable to people, but the truth is unpleasant. [[Abg. Rädler: Your speech is unpleasant!]] [[Abg. Yeah, that's right!]] Precisely, my speech is very unpleasant, especially for you, Mr Rädler. [[Abg. Höbart: Please come to the case!]] [[Abg. Schultes:... Ahnenpass!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] Mr President, not everyone has heard your call, so I will repeat it. You said: Now comes the apologies for the ancestral passport. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] – I am still waiting for the excuse for the ethnicization attempt from your series, which is not happening here for the first time. [[President Hofer gives the bell sign.]] Back to the topic: Mrs. Federal Minister, I would suggest that you, as you have always preached until recently, keep asylum and migration apart. You have kept a lot of that in recent years, and now – not now, but since September – you have made a swivel around 180 degrees. I think it makes sense to talk about escape, but also about migration. [[Abg. Darmann: international migration...!]] [[President Hofer gives the bell sign again]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e24670	Mr Rädler, I have to give you a call for an order for the call for call, ‘What are you doing for complexes?’. [[In the case of the Greens, please welcome the Abg. Korun.]] Next, Mr Plessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e24718	Mr President. Dear Minister of the Interior! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! We're talking about the Ministry of the Interior's budget today. I have been working in various activities in the Ministry of Interior for over 30 years. In particular, I can remember how, some time ago, from 2000 onwards – that was not a simple time – excellent functioning structures, such as in the criminal police field, were destroyed forever. The great misevaluation of the then Federal Minister was that one wanted to get away from specialists to generalists. This was one of the biggest misconceptions and misdevelopments of the last decades in the interior. In the years 2000 to 2006, more than 3,000 planning sites were reduced, i.e. they were no longer available in the interior resort. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, only with the 2008 trend turnaround, with the Federal Government Faymann I was stopped not only from this destruction, but also re-occupied. In addition, more than 1 000 planning posts were planned. Also under the Federal Government Faymann II, another 1,000 police officers have been additionally agreed in the Government Convention. But very important is the following: In recent times, there have been numerous developments that we must also respond to. We have planned a total of about 1 975 new shots for the next few years. Mr Darmann, we have already discussed this in the Committee on Budgets, and I have put this question to the Minister for the Interior. In addition, 60 planning posts are provided for the trainees, so that the corresponding teaching staff is also available. Ladies and gentlemen, we have planned additional measures in the interior resort in 2016. We have planned four times €72 million for additional investment in security expansion. At present, it is very important to invest there. But I also want to hold on – because it is always about the State Protection Act –: Even the best state protection law cannot protect us from attacks as they have been committed in Paris. I've also been holding several times: Officials need appropriate tools, but at the same time we also need to strengthen parliamentary control in the area of legal protection – which is also very critical – in order to ensure transparency in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e24758	The next item is the speech by Mr Lausch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e24779	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Yes, Federal Minister, the 2016 budget: More than 1 000 police officers have always said that to your predecessors – now she is sitting here in the National Council. We've heard that for a long time. One thing you have to say, stop...
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e24801	Mr Klubobmann, may I ask you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e24816	That's all right, Mr Klubobmann, if you're talking to your Minister of the Interior. [[Abg. Lopatka: That was a noise attack!]] [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] So I've got to say, That must be very funny, the budget, Mrs. Federal Minister, you would probably be... – The “lausch attack” for God’s sake, you should rather deal with the budget, dear Mrs. Federal Minister, and not with my name! [[Federal Minister Mikl-Leinner: “Lausch-Anfrage”!]] [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] With all love, look at what it looks like in your resort and what you can and can't do! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] If you look at the budget, you can actually do very little. [[He-Rufe at the ÖVP.]] If you're on it today, 1,000 more cops: This should have occurred to you in 2013, because you know very well that the training period has taken two years. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] If you're on it in 2016, 1,000 more cops, then you'll have this 2018. As you will shape the entire security policy in Austria by 2018, it is said. But you probably find that funny too. Unfortunately, this is not so funny, and the Austrians do not find this funny either because the police who now serve at the border are missing in the core country. I wouldn't laugh at your place because you don't have a place and no budget to laugh! [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] In this sense, I wish you all the best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e24912	Next, Mr Magistrate. Hammer to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e24943	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear colleague Korun, before you create yourself here and speak permanently moralizing and instructively towards the ÖVP Group, I would do a little more self-reflection in your place. And I recommend you to question your remote-reality refugee policy and to look for the conversation with your colleague Pilz, for he has made it quite clear in the media how he sees this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The present security budget can no doubt be seen as a good budget for the field of internal security – for the security of the Austrians. If you keep talking about the fact that this and that could be more financially equipped, I must say that this is always to be seen in an overall context – difficult economic times and difficult budgetary environment. I think that is why this budget is extremely positive. However, there are particular challenges in the area of internal security and in the interior area. This budget shall take into account both the measures and the financial resources and the agreed increase in staff levels. I believe that especially in times like this, where the entire global policy is marked by uncertainty, policy must give the sense of security. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kitzmüller.]] I am truly very grateful to the Minister for the Interior that you are constantly bringing forward proposals on the current burning issues, such as asylum with measures such as asylum on time, measures in family succession, foreign law and, above all, measures concerning the defence of terrorism, the terrorist package, and constantly calling things by name. Especially today – and this has already been discussed – the necessary changes to the State Protection Act, the proper handling of jihadists and the control of the flow of refugees are important points that we need to implement accordingly and where there is a need for action. It has also been mentioned: The subjective sense of security is primarily the security in its own four walls. In the area of property crime, the project INNEN.SICHER has set out important measures to protect against house and housing collapses, thus especially strengthening security in its own four walls. I believe that this is in total a budget that can be very satisfied with, and therefore we are happy to agree with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e25004	Next come Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e25025	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! To my previous speaker, Mr Hammer: You have now said exactly the same thing as Mrs Bundesminister's last budget says, namely that you want to strengthen the subjective sense of security. [[Abg. Riddler: Lauter!]] You know, it would be much better for me if we once had the claim to increase security objectively, because then automatically the subjective sense of security increases, instead of taking any sham measures. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If we stick to the subjective sense of security: Mrs. Federal Minister, you have set a goal for 2016, and you want 90 percent of the population to have a subjective sense of security. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light ecker]] – However, the current state is 92 percent. That means you are already satisfied with a deterioration. They set an effect target that is worse than the is-state. – That, Mrs. Federal Minister, is really a declaration of bankruptcy! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Mrs Bundesminister, I am staying with you right now because I have listened very closely to you today. They have literally said: Terror has arrived in Europe. - Yeah, that's right, he is. – The Federal Government is dealing with this extremely sensitively. - May be. – The veil guard works. – No, Mrs Federal Minister, I must contradict you: The veil fencing doesn't work at all. After the attacks in Paris, we learned that, for example, a Macedonian who had come over the Balkan route was stopped in Rosenheim and that his car was full of automatic weapons. He has been able to pass through Austria unlit. The veil fencing didn't work at all. The border controls do not work at all, Mrs Federal Minister! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] Since today, we know that three of the Paris assassins have moved over the Balkan route towards Germany and from there on to Paris. When they have come across the Balkan route, it is assumed that they are also marching over our state territory. That is exactly what we are accusing you, Mrs Minister. You have no idea how many people have marched through our country. You have no idea who these people are and what they have in their luggage. You don't know all this! These migration flows are filled with people who have nothing good in mind. And your only answer to the terror is that you want to tighten up the State Security Act. That is to say, the potential victims of terrorism are to be more closely monitored. If that's your answer, Mrs. Federal Minister, you didn't understand anything! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] No, not the potential victims, Mr Amon. Why, then, do the people need to be more closely monitored, while at the same time the terrorists are being swept further through our country? [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Amon]] That's crazy! That's not the potential perpetrators if you're all watching. By the way, Mr Amon, remember: In spring 2014, two girls from Vienna moved to Jihad. They're dead now or not, you don't know exactly. [[Abg. Amon: One has returned!]] There was still, please, the storage of data, and it didn't do anything at all. [[Abg. Riddler: Stupid argument!]] These girls have nevertheless moved to the Holy War. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] That is why, Minister of State, it is the wrong way. Not the innocent victims, not the population is still being monitored, but the terrorists belong to the borders controlled!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e25191	Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e25213	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! It is said that the budget is the policy cast in figures. I think it is precisely the internal resort that really takes this saying into account, because if you look at the world's political situation, especially with the great refugee movement, and then you see that the internal resort is actually increasing the budget in asylum care, then I have to say that it is a good budget. We know – we have already heard – that 420 million € will be increased in basic supply. There will also be funds for NGOs, which, from my point of view, do a very valuable job in the field of refugee care, with a good budget. I am very glad that this is actually being done, because I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that it is also done with this budget that we are doing our duty to respect human rights. - That's the part. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The second part – we already heard this today – is: It will also invest in the field of security, we will invest €72 million in the field of security, cumulated every year until 2019. This is also important because it is important that people have the sense of security and that they realize that people's safety needs are taken seriously. 1 000 additional officials are an important and correct step in this direction. I am glad that this measure will be preferred that in the coming years – earlier than planned – we will employ these 1,000 additional officials, on the one hand, in order to discharge officials who are already working on the border, and on the other hand to reduce overtime, because at the moment many officials are simply needed for refugee care. I would like to thank all these people at this point because I really know that the service at the border for officials, police officers and police is a very demanding and more strenuous one. I think it is really also a commitment from our Members to thank them once. I would like to do this from this point of view. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address another issue, namely the objective of action 3. Action Objective 3 in the interior sector is concerned with improved protection against violence against women and minors. There are a number of tasks to be fulfilled here, for example in the field of prevention – one must ensure that people do not become violent – in the field of the education and training of officials, so that they deal very sensitively with the victims of violence, and of course also especially in the field of the protection of victims of violence. In the field of intervention agencies, €3.5 million will be invested next year. I think that is a good money, because every year about 17 000 people, mainly women, are being cared for in these intervention agencies. This is a very important service in the field of violence against women. In addition, I would like to say that in addition to these measures, of course, there is a need to raise awareness. I would like to invite everyone to take part in the actions that start tomorrow, in the 16 days against violence, because I believe that violence must be taken out of the living rooms and that they should be shown, that they should be made aware in the middle of society, so that women, girls and children can be more opposed if they become victims of violence.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e25273	Next, Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e25294	Mr President. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Security is a very important matter for the state and the population. The 2016 budget for the Ministry of the Interior is just over €3 billion. We have heard today that the budget has been increased by €500 million compared to the 2015 estimate, but of which € 420 million are for the basic supply of asylum seekers, ladies and gentlemen, colleague Amon! That's how it looks, that's the fact. The Minister said that she was counting the border security from the beginning of September to the end of December with around €100 million. We don't know what was at the other time. In the field of security, € 2.06 billion is planned. For the care of refugees, € 545.68 million is estimated. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, with these sums and costs, I understand that these costs are calculated from the budget, because the population has little understanding of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e25329	The next point is Mr Obernoster. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e25386	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and at home in front of the TV screens! I believe that figures and facts have been mentioned enough by the previous speakers. I don't want to repeat that. I say something quite honestly: I have been here in the house since 2006, and there has actually been a great deal of criticism on the part of the opposition in every debate about the Ministry of the Interior and about security. But the facts show – thank God! – that Austria is one of the safest countries in the world. This has been maintained, and we also want to hope that it will continue to be so. It was not saved, the budget was increased as needed, of course with half a billion due to the refugee situation. But the problem doesn't have Austria alone, and there we are no island of the Blessed. We all know that this is only a pan-European task, and there we have to help. €70 million go to the security offensive. That Austria is such a safe country, we should be proud of it, that we should preserve ourselves. The Minister of the Interior is a guarantee for creating the conditions for this, with a majority and unanimity in this House – I am sure – especially on this important question, which means one of the highest goods in this Republic. That means being able to live in a safe country is important. Furthermore, as a tourist country, we know how important it is that we can also present ourselves in advertising as a safe country. I hope that it will remain the same, but it may still be criticised so much by individual political groups.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e25423	Next, Mr Fazekas. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e25444	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, It is important and there is consensus that we all believe that the money invested in the security offensive is well-designed that it is necessary to provide the police with protective equipment, to invest in information technology and in various equipment that is simply needed to cope with daily difficult work. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, I also know from the Committee's work that it is necessary – and there is also consensus about it – that the legal framework needs to be adapted and that we discuss how and in what form this should happen. We also know, however, that it is necessary – and here also my appeal to everyone, that we also take the necessary time to do so – to make a law that will lift security in Austria and that will help us to continue the fight against terrorism. But we need time to do that. When I think of yesterday's commemorative event in the column hall: There was talk of the President of the National Council, the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Vice-Cancellor and, of course, the President of the Federal Republic of Germany that we are not being defeated by terror. Yes, we are not defeated by terrorism, but we are not being defeated, ladies and gentlemen, because we do not want to give up our values and because we do not abandon our personal freedom. I would like to give it to you. This must be top priority if we think about other legal framework conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e25487	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. It's a kilnauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e25508	Mrs. Federal Minister! Values Advisors! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Due to the terrorist attacks in Paris and the refugee and asylum issue, the internal budget has reached a very special focus of €3 billion. Fear and uncertainty are best fought with orientation and safety. The debates of the last week have shown that extreme positions or extreme interpretations of projects certainly do not lead to the goal. There is more security through better equipment and more personnel for the police. 1 000 men and – of course – women are now recruited and mostly time soldiers are trained on border police so that 750 border police officers can be in use from next year onwards. A total of € 290 million is planned for the equipment in the 2016 budget, which will be invested in technology and safety and tools such as protective signs, protective vests, helmets and so on. However, maintaining public security is also a matter of improving the existing possibilities of monitoring and compliance with the rule of law. I think it must also be possible, and especially a Minister of the Interior, to consider how this can happen in order to clarify at least attacks if they cannot be prevented in advance, especially in order to find out possible fellow-consuls. I am thinking of data storage or of measures to control who is in contact with. In any case, there must be a balance between intervening in freedom and making security, because one must certainly happen: that we are forced into insecurity by such attacks. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Should we report all contacts, or do we differentiate?]] Our Interior Minister, Ms Mikl- Leitner, is doing good work, as are the police. Thank you very much. And this budget guarantees that good work can continue.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e25543	As the last speaker today, Mr Schabhüttl is speaking. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e25564	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Security has now and has already had a very high priority in our population in the past. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Not only since the attacks in Paris has the subject been found at the top of the scale in all surveys and investigations. Especially in recent weeks and months, it has been shown that in very difficult circumstances, under very difficult conditions, there is a great deal of reliance on a professional group, namely the police. In the operations on the border, at the railway stations, in the transports, police officers often went to their service borders and, as many colleagues told me, sometimes went beyond that. It has already been expressed a few times today, I would also like to thank you from here. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The key points of the 2016 budget for the interior sector have been quoted more often here: 3 billion €, almost 500 million more for next year, over 400 million € for the basic supply of asylum seekers, but it will also invest in security. In the so-called security offensive 290 million were agreed by the government partners until 2018, for 2016 additional 72 million for security in Austria. Not yet included in the 2016 budget – we have already heard this today – are the 1,000 promised planning services for the police and 125 planning posts for the BVA next year. As a police officer, I would like to see a clear commitment to security and police not only in times of crisis by all here in the house. Even in the case of tight budget situation, there should be no savings in good training and equipment, starting with appropriate and qualitative uniforms, protective equipment, vehicles, mobile phones or IT. For a long time, Mrs Bundesminister, the implementation of the common digital radio, which has not yet been implemented. I also demand at this point that there will be no further services or mergers in the future, because a local service creates personal contact with the population. [[Abg. Höbart: You voted in favour!]] This personal contact with the population not only creates additional confidence in the police, but also in the state, and this confidence would, of course, also benefit policy makers, so we all here, well. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e25613	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Darmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e25634	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I must say to Mr Schabhüttl of the SPÖ: This is a strong piece to produce here, at the time with the SPÖ Group and with the ÖVP, to have decided to have completed services across Austria and to have taken away a great deal of security from the population, but now to demand that there should be no further closures. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrary]] This is a strong piece, but the population can already take a picture of it, because they experience it daily to what extent their security in their home communities has dropped across the country, across Austria, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Shafshüttl]] [[Calls and calls between FPÖ and SPÖ MPs.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] Two points to the conclusion of the State Protection Act: Commissioner of the Interior Mikl- Leitner, ladies and gentlemen, I hope you will agree that there can only be a state protection and a state protection law, where the Austrian people are acting – and not the Austrian population. That has top priority! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is why it is simply not wisdom that it is the last conclusion to constantly restrict freedom and civil rights in Austria and to demand an extension of the surveillance state when there are terrorist attacks across and across Europe. [[Federal Minister Mikl- Leitner makes a sobering head movement.]] It's bad enough that there's that. But France is the best example of this, because it shows us that the storage of data has brought nothing, unfortunately nothing at all. [[Abg. Riddler: Such a fool!]] On the other hand, the ÖVP is called upon to extend the surveillance state in particular. [[Intervocations at FPÖ and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I also do not know what is against – listen to me, an offer –: [[Unrest in the meeting room]] It would have been a great failure if we were to set up a subcommittee of the Internal Committee – if you were actually concerned with a quality of the State Protection Act – to take the time to develop a state protection law with full force in the interests of the Austrian population, in accordance with the relevant quality. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler]] That is why it is not a matter of working against the citizens, not against the potential victims of terrorism in Austria, but against those who up to now are able to cross our borders unhindered by the policy of this government. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And you want to watch some terrorists, you want to listen to them, but you don't even know who's come into our country until now. Since today is known again: Three terrorists from the Paris attacks came over the Balkan route to Paris. This has all happened, it has gone uncontrolled. And you want to prejudice the population that by means of a state protection law would achieve more security, but do not give up the essential information. [[Call to the FPÖ: That's the point!]] To know who crosses our borders, who is among us, who takes residence with us, who is subject to us, who wants to deal criminally with the Austrian population: It would be an approach to finally get caught up in this – I must use this word, Mrs Hauserminister – to carry out strict, effective border controls, which actually fill this term and ensure security in the sense of the Austrian people. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The second point that has to be raised at the end of the debate is: Thankfully, today there has been a commitment by the Minister of the Interior Mikl- Leitner to a necessary ceiling in the refugee world. You, Mrs Minister, said today – if it was properly communicated via the media – that you felt it worth thinking about getting a ceiling for refugees, for asylum seekers in Austria. I say, Madam Minister of the Interior: Don't think about it, but act! It is long overdue to set a ceiling in Austria, because the capacity limits have long been reached and exceeded not only for the population, but also – and you know that exactly – for the executive service they have long been exceeded. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] All those who have been put to work in this asylum area and to deal with this migration of peoples have long exhausted their capacity. [[Prolonged calls.]] The Austrian population, the taxpayers have long deserved to get a responsible policy to make appropriate decisions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer]] Ladies and gentlemen, you know it yourself, with your calls you talk against the opinion of the Austrian population. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak.]] If you continue to do here the wall of a government that does everything to protect the security of your own population, you need to know that the population represents a completely different opinion and here you communicate with your interlocutors individual opinions. I would like to say once again, Mrs Innenminister, to you and the Federal Government: Finally, put those limits in place! [[President Hofer gives the bell sign.]] [[Prolonged calls.]] If you become active in relocating those people who have lost nothing in Austria, then you will have no problems finding accommodation for those who are actually looking for protection. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e25834	I call Mr Amon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e25855	Mr President. Dear Mrs. Federal Minister Mikl- Leitner! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear and esteemed Mr Darmann, with mere polemics you cannot make a security policy. [[Abg. Lausch: Until here it was good!]] I can't! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] – Listening Once again, I'm talking for two minutes, you can speak again! First of all, on criticism of the merger of police inspections: Since you always claim that you have such good connections to the executive, you should know that the proposals for the merger of police inspections have come directly from the police, from the police, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Darmann: I also have links to the population!]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] That is why we are getting bigger units, because that means more security for the individual official and for the individual officials. That's the truth! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Darmann: Where's the safety?]] Mr Darmann, if you have considered the security report carefully, you have also noticed that for the third time in a row, we have the lowest level of crime. – This is also a success of this new structure, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Mr Darmann, to the State Protection Act: They say it's a law against the population. Only: It is remarkable that all surveys are currently saying that 70 percent of the population is for stricter measures. The population is thinking more than the FPÖ. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Kitzmüller and Mr Belakovich-Jenewein.]] The population is thinking more than the FPÖ, because people know that this is not a law directed against the population. [[Abg. Darmann: Read the text of the law!]] It is absolutely absurd to make such a claim! Why do you want such a thing? What is it about the State Protection Act? – The question is that it is clear that the Federal Office for Constitutional Protection and Combating Terrorism can turn against radical currents, against right-wing radicals as well as against left-wing radicals, and against terrorism. – That is why, Mr Darmann, it is not a law that is against the people! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Darmann.]] On the argument that the monitoring will be extended: What should be expanded? – In cases where there is data about a suspected person, this data should be able to be stored longer than has been the case so far. [[Abg. Darmann: This is a detail! Say another point!]] Why should such a measure be directed against the Austrian population? You have to explain that to me! [[President Hofer gives the bell sign.]] With mere polemics, Mr Darmann, you cannot make a security policy!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e26040	I am in favour of sub-division No more words inside. This is the subject that is being dealt with. I am now interrupting the session by Wednesday, 25th. November 2015, 9 a.m. Negotiations will continue with the deliberations of Divisions 20: Work, 21: Social and Consumer Protection, and 22: Pension Insurance. The sitting was suspended. [[21:08:33]] [[The meeting would be held on Tuesday, 24. November 2015, at 9.06 p.m. and on Wednesday, 25th. In November 2015, continued at 9.05 a.m.]] [[09:05:18]] Continued the meeting: Wednesday, 25. November 2015, 9.05 a.m.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e26095	I'll take the interrupted 104. Meeting of the National Council again and wish you all a nice good morning. For today's session, the following Members have been reported as preventing: May. Greiner, Dr. Jarolim and Ing. Hackl. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e26125	For today's meeting day, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government has issued the following communication: The Federal Minister for Europe, Integration and External Affairs Sebastian Kurz is represented by the Federal Minister for Justice Dr. Wolfgang Brandstetter. We continue with the budget consultation. I announce that the session will be broadcast live today from ORF 2 to 1 p.m. and from ORF III in full length. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e26167	For today’s session day, a 9 ‘Vienna hour’ block office was decided, giving the following speaking times: SPÖ and ÖVP each 122, FPÖ 113, Green 95 as well as Neos and Stronach 50 minutes each. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall be the speaking time of those Members who do not belong to a club within the framework of this decision on today's day of sitting each 25 minutes. In addition, the speaking time of Members who do not belong to a club was limited to 5 minutes per debate. The division of today's discussions is already known to you. [[09:07:00]] UG 20: Work UG 21: Social and consumer protection UG 22: Pension insurance
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e26216	We will first come to the consultation of the subdivisions 20 to 22. I welcome Mr Hundstorfer in our ranks. We are going into the debate. The first speaker is Mr Kickl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e26246	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I wish you a nice good morning on this second day of the budget consultation, which is first of all about the subject of social affairs. That is why I am saying that we have to question this matter quite a bit with the nice and the good one in view of the problem we are dealing with. Mein Ladies and gentlemen! Against the background of the situation on the Austrian labour market – with the Austrian labour market you have to deal intensively with the figures of the social budget – I am very skeptical about this, that such a thing as a good mood is at all appropriate or that it is legitimate to call something like a breaking optimism or even something of sustainability in this direction. On the contrary! I think this is obscene and hope that no one on the part of the government parties makes this attempt. I think, ladies and gentlemen, before I go into the labour market figures, that the mood of the poverty situation in Austria is not one that gives rise to great optimism. I heard a radio broadcast today in the morning, and I thought I didn't hear correctly, but once – the show must have been somehow lost in the program – I had to deal with poverty in Austria. Otherwise it is, we know that there is poverty everywhere in the world, it comes from everywhere here, but the poverty in Austria, let alone, would rather fall under the table, because poverty in Austria would also be a witness to poverty for the Austrian government. But it has actually lost such a show in the program, probably because Christmas is at the door. I can only tell you, ladies and gentlemen, it is shocking what poverty is in its own country, how much need for recovery and how much need there is in spite of billions of investment in this area. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In this context, I miss an internal Austrian poverty coordinator or a coordinator to combat internal Austrian poverty. There is no coordinator for this, and for other areas we have set up one. I miss the wide-ranging media campaign when it comes to combating poverty in Austria. And I haven't seen a Federal President who would have made any selfies with homeless Austrians, which he sends around the world history. So there is a proper rupture in this, and we liberals are pointing out those who do not tire out. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Federal Minister, it has already been pointed out yesterday, not only by representatives of our group, but also by representatives of the Government Bank, that one of the main problems in this budget is the whole labour market problem. For me, this is something similar to an admission to your failure, to your place of business failure and to the collective failure of this federal government. You must go to court with you, Mr Federal Minister, even some sort of hard. I already know that this federal government, that your propagandists in the SPÖ are very happy to present you as the miracle in terms of labour market policy, as those who provide record employment, as those who prevent the explosion of unemployment. We have even heard that you are a kind of export goods that you export to Spain, Portugal, to Greece, so that you can explain to them how it is in connection with unemployment. Rudolf Hundstorfer needs to save the world a short time before moving into Hofburg. Only, ladies and gentlemen, that does not correspond to the facts. It looks a little different. In reality, you are a master of refusal of reality, Mr. Federal Minister! What have we not heard from behind me on this government bank all about announcements? I'm saving you the chronology of your misevaluations, that's what anyone can read on the Internet. But one announcement after another, that now the turnaround on the labour market succeeds, one announcement after another, that now the upturn is coming, one announcement after another, that it is not going to last long and that economic growth will finally cease. Now, now, then, right now, but then. This is, as it were, the story that we have heard from the Federal Minister over and over again. The problem is that reality does not fall to follow your announcements. That is why the Austrian labour market is on a permanent trip, and it is always going down, even beyond points where we all hoped and wished that we would never interrupt them. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Every month, ladies and gentlemen, a new disaster report from the labour market. That's a real staccato. In the meantime, we have heard from the experts of the AMS that this winter we will exceed the 500 000 mark on unemployment. It will be evening on your labour market puszta, Federal Minister. That is why you have now changed the strategy. Now it's no longer the bank rescue, now it's no longer the billions for the ESM, now it's no longer the beautiful weather that's supposed to rip the tax around, but now you have another package of measures you're putting on. And here we are at the 2016 budget. This is the central part of this budget, which is the tax reform, which we were told yesterday that there will be such economic impulses that 20 000 new jobs will be created. In view of the migration of peoples, which is currently talking about this country, we can ask ourselves the question of whom these 20 000 jobs are intended in the future. Then there are measures of the so-called labour market summit, then, of course, we have increased expenditure in the field of labour market policy, a rich plus of 17 percent, we spend more than €6 billion, and then there is the housing offensive. And all this together is now obviously supposed to rip the tax around and give all negative developments a different direction. We hear that over and over again, this is the new credo of this federal government. The only problem is that this is not the case with an examination, and that is to say, to reject it. You make these statements, which are always made on the political stage, by what you yourself are writing into the budget. If you look more closely at the essential objectives of your budget in the sub-dividual work, and these are the impact targets 2 to 5, then the figures you have set yourself as targets for 2016 and in the course of 2017 indicate that there will be no change in these areas. The figures therefore disprove the spoken word. Despite increased budgeting in this area – I have already said: plus 17 percent – despite alleged economic impulses through the tax reform, despite the labour market summit measures, despite the housing offensive, there will be more older unemployed in 2016. – You are making this increase a success! It is to be read that there will be more youthful unemployed. – For you, if it occurs as you have written it in, it is a success! There will be a decrease in the number of open apprenticeships. – For you this is a success when you will achieve it. And there will be an increase in the number of unemployed across all the population groups. – You also book this as a success. It's adventurous! A deterioration of the already bad condition is recorded by you as a success in the budget. I'm sure that's not the way to go! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I only mention the 1.6 billion hole, which is created because of the fact that you have additional revenue from the new additional employment. The only problem is that because of rising unemployment, you are galoping expenditure. And with that we have a hole of 1.6 billion for this budget, and that's the truth behind what you always say, that's all going on. More revenue from additional employment compensates for what we need, because we have more expenditure due to additional unemployment. There's nothing going on, Minister of State! They can assume that this development will become increasingly dramatic in the next few years. So they put billions in, and yet you do not manage to reverse the trend, and that is why we need to look more closely at the figures that should, so to speak, be the foundation of any serious labour market policy. I know that the left in this house in particular does not like to do so. That's why you almost have to order it as a medicine against your good-human dream dancers. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you look at these figures more closely, then it turns out that this so-called welcome culture becomes a welcome unculture very quickly when it comes to protecting Austrian workers. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We are facing the following situation – and this is something we really have to do with the tongue: current status, figures from October this year, 410,000 unemployed, including training, 500,000 will still be in winter. Of the 410 000 unemployed, 118 500 are foreigners. 29 percent of the unemployed in Austria are foreigners. There you can only say, congratulations to the step of Easter enlargement, great, that is the result of the displacement competition that you have set in motion with it. 19 000 unemployed in Austria are asylum seekers, which is the truth behind your so-called skill fairy tale: 19 000 unemployed asylum seekers. Getting Now You're probably saying that wasn't the refugees from Syria. [[Abg. Loacker:... a little deeper maybe!]] But that's not where it's going, either. You have to decide sometime now: Is this man who rules in Syria a bloodthirsty dictator, or isn't he? Because bloodthirsty dictators are not known to strive to provide their torturers with a particularly high level of training for their subjects. [[Abg. Rädler: That's what you tell the Putin, your Russian friend!]] That doesn't fit! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] At some point in time, You have to decide now. It's a fairy tale. We already have 19 000 unemployed asylum seekers. The increase in the number of unemployed foreigners is 14.1 percent, the increase in the number of unemployed foreigners is 2.5 percent. In training, we have reached a point where of the 71 500 training participants, 34 percent are already foreigners. I sometimes wonder who you are actually the Social and Labour Ministers for. I sometimes have the impression that you are setting your priorities completely wrong. This is now the starting point, which is what is so to speak of problem areas. And what is now being offered on the other side? You always have to look at that. So 410,000 unemployed, and 32 000 job vacancies. 32,000 job vacancies! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Now, let's assume that your economic packages will become quite effective. Then I'm generous and I'll charge another 20,000 jobs, then it's 50 000. But it will also increase the number of unemployed, 500 000, we have heard. I see here only a huge hole that opens and that is getting bigger and bigger and that would actually have to prepare you a sleepless night after another, a huge hole! And now I ask you and the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, as the chief representative of this welcome culture, refugees welcome!, through all areas every day until vomiting, how does it look with the 80 000 asylum seekers who came to the country alone this year? Where do you want to accommodate these people on the labour market in view of the hole that is already in place? And now I'm generous again, I'll pull you off a few, the kids you're always talking about, but then you're just as honest and you're expecting a few more, that's the family estate, which, of course, also takes place, that's, it's a huge hole below the line. Tell me where you want to go with these people on the Austrian labour market, how all this should be done in view of the figures I have mentioned to you! If you stand here, I ask you to explain today to the Austrian population how this should be done! I'm curious. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I tell you, ladies and gentlemen, what you are doing here, that has nothing to do with welcome culture, that is political Harakiri with a start, that is political Harakiri, and it is the abandonment of your own Austrian unemployed for any dubious left-wing dream dance that you are following in your political concepts. I sometimes have to get my head on when experts march, all of them in the soldier of this federal government, and the Austrians explain: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vogl]] All this is not a problem, the labour market can do it already! – 500 000 unemployed, 50,000 job vacancies! [[Abg. Schwentner: You have the recipes!]] And the alternative to an employment, Mr. Federal Minister, is still the country in the social system. There are only these two possibilities: If I do not find employment, I will end up in the social system. But costs are also incurred there. Now I would like to know how you want to finance all of this, where you know that this is not a unique development, but I will tell you now: Africa ante portas! These are things that will continue in the next few years, and I wish you a lot of fun with your dyeing. But the Austrians have already laughed in the context. Who are you working for, Mr. Federal Minister? [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Doppler.]] That then leads to things like budget shifts, so this famous hole-to-hole story you work with permanently. We have the group of long-term unemployed, this number has exploded this year. We have had 14 000 so far, now it is over 50 000, because you are cutting down on the AMS training courses so that, as it were, these training phases will be eliminated, so that people will get into long-term unemployment. I say immediately that, of course, this also means a deterioration in income, because they fall into emergency situations. But the funds provided for this group will then be reduced by 50 to 70 million, because this will have to be moved to those who have received asylum status from us in order to finance integration activities there. These are small splitters of the Austrian labour market policy this year 2015 and 2016 will continue to do so. Mr. Federal Minister, you have to think about it. You must conclude, you must be committed to the conclusion of this policy of: Only integrated!, also in the Austrian labour market or as an alternative to the Austrian social system! - That's one. And you have to undo the mistake of opening the East and introduce a sectoral closure of the Austrian labour market. Otherwise, the trip will go further down, whether you want it or not. Against this background, I can understand that you already have some idea of escape or abjection towards Hofburg. But one thing I'm telling you about: Your labour market policy is not a letter of recommendation!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e26390	The next item is the speech by Mr Muchich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e26412	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! No good start on the second day for the discussions or decision-making of the budget, because Mr Kickl is doing something quite simple here : [[As a result of this, the Commission has taken the necessary steps to improve the quality of the information provided by the Member States and the Member States. Treasure]] [[Call the FPÖ:For the government!]] He turns out here, magazines so correctly and gives things of himself, which are actually not very fair, operating with numbers that do not vote in part and which ultimately assure the people in this country. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: They are all true!]] [[Abg. Cute: What's wrong, please?! Facts!]] Since yesterday, I have been listening to all these speeches by the opposition parties, and one thing is clearly and clearly visible: No matter which party assumes responsibility in this country, whether this is at municipal level, state level or federal level, the opposition parties are always against everything, are critical and speak badly, which is taken over by responsibility here. [[Abg. Kickl: And you are against everything that is opposition!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] That's fact, that's actually not fair and that's actually not right. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Now we go to the numbers!]] Now let's go to the numbers, yeah. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Thank you!]] I can't befriend you when it's called in the media, the opposition's crushing a budget. Can't be made here and say [[Call the FPÖ: Where else?]] That's well solved, we see a chance, but here we have a different opinion? – Can we not do that, as we may live in the Council of the Municipalities even better than here in the House, where there is a bit of mutual respect and really constructive policy is made? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein]] [[Abg. Kickl: Say something to this hole!]] We're not going to and we're not going to do anything nice about the 2016 budget. We face major challenges, but we are not talking these challenges badly, but we are trying to find solutions. And we won't do everything we can to create solutions. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: This is an announcement!]] We will not be able to solve all the problems in 2016. [[Abg. Kickl: Then at least stop making problems worse!]] But fact is what we do: We accept these challenges. We're trying to find solutions. With four examples, this is clearly shown in this budget. With the tax reform: More net in the wallet than before, a very important point for people in this country. With the housing offensive: quite clearly boost the economy. With the step-wise introduction of the bonus malus system, where we are not at the end, admitted, but we start with it. We are beginning to raise awareness of keeping older people in employment longer. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] The biggest area and the biggest challenge for 2016 – I am right, Mr Kickl – is the labour market. That's the biggest challenge. And this challenge, of course, presents us with problems. If you come here, make yourself here and speak of 19 000 asylum seekers, please take the right terms! they are entitled to asylum; asylum seekers who have a status that has a right to be transferred to the labour market accordingly. Do not mix asylum seekers with asylum seekers and asylum seekers! [[Consistency with SPÖ and NEOS as well as with the Abg. Korun.]] [[Abg. Kickl: An asylumant is an asylumist, the other is an asylum seekers!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singer.]] Now you can do one, now you can do what you do from the FPÖ: You make yourself here and howl with the wolves – or you really bring in points that are constructive and that help us. [[Abg. New builder: And you're a trade unionist and don't do anything!]] That's a nice shot! Then you have to tell me what your services are; what your services are in the area of the labour market; what your services are, where you take responsibility – where you reduce housing funds in Upper Austria, wherever you are in political responsibility. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Kickl: You didn't even pass the contract law! Your child!]] [[Abg. New builder: During the salary negotiations you are strong...!]] The fact is, the contract law is in the river and with the support of all parties we will also implement this award law. I'm convinced of that. [[Abg. Kickl: Yes, yes!]] You know, the difference is: We're on this budget. We stand with this Social Minister because he takes responsibility because he takes over the largest area of the overall 77 billion budget approach. [[Abg. Kickl: Say something to the numbers...!]] And this budget clearly shows social competence and social justice in the areas of the labour market with 8 billion, pensions with 11 billion, care for 2.76 billion. That's what we're talking about. [[Abg. Kassinger:... only high expenditure!]] Finally, to the address of the opposition: Only with criticism and polemics will we not be able to solve the problems in this country! That's why I'm looking for you: Come on. Down to the constructive and objective level! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e26715	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Schwentner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e26736	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators! Mr. Kickl, how we missed you! For a time, we were spared from your caprioles-ships, which startle fear without end and where after that only uncertainty remains. [[Abg. Kickl: Do you know what makes people afraid? – The policy of this federal government!]] Mr Kickl has been away from Parliament for a long time, from the committees, because he was obviously involved in dubious money flows of a Carinthian advertising agency – and we have missed nothing, I have to say. [[Congratulations on the Greens and Members of the NEOS.]] [[Intervocations at SPÖ and FPÖ.]] They scare people and do not suggest any solutions. [[Abg. Kickl: Your naivety!]] But one thing I would also like to say in the direction of Mr Muchich: As members of the opposition parties, we are not here to beautify for three days what is in the budget, but to put our fingers on the wounds in the budget, where we find that other solutions are needed – and to make solutions too. It would be a good thing if the government's parties would also respond to proposals from the opposition parties, hear them and take them up. I believe that then we would have a more lively Parliament and a more living parliamentaryism. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Krainer: We just made yesterday!]] I would now like to refer to a quote from Johanna Dohnal – you know from the Social Democracy everyone – who has already said that the supposedly soft topics are the really hard chunks. – These are the social issues. I would particularly like to address a topic that is very important to me and which is at my heart, that is the care. The field of care is one that affects the reality of life of all of us – whether because we know that we get older and perhaps need care, because it concerns our family because it is already parents and grandparents and we are all often in a fairly immediate situation facing the question of what happens, how we can help our mother, our father, our relatives that they are well accommodated that they have a good place to care for. The area of care is not the largest budget in your resort and I am pleased that it has been raised a bit, namely by €50 million. I just think that the challenges are much, much bigger and far beyond the current budget. And there is a lack of political vision, namely the far-sighted view, to ensure – now also in the direction of care funds, which is soon to be negotiated between the federal states in the Article 15a agreement and in the financial compensation – that care of Bregenz to Eisenstadt, from west to east is guaranteed equally that we have similar quality standards everywhere, that we have guidelines on how people are accommodated, how people can take care of and so on. It's missing. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would like more commitment, Mr Minister, beyond the next period of government, beyond 2018 – because we know people in this country are getting older, there will be more and more people in need of care, and looking at it is something that goes far beyond a date of the end of the reign. To keep this view wide open, I wish I could. It was also saved at some details and corners. I would not support these savings, and I cannot understand them either. We have now received the figures that the access to care levels 1 and 2 has been greatly complicated. This is precisely the area where people are slowly entering a nursing stage where they should be able to use small services, namely, to the extent that they do not fall quickly into a higher level of care. In the care level 1 and 2 you need a taxi, a footcare, a few hours of help in certain areas, and this is unfortunately denied by the difficult access to the care levels 1 and 2 and concerns very, very many people in this country. Another area – and I see little ambition in the budget for the next two years – is all that would support caring relatives, namely the possibilities of care care care, care part-time, but also replacement care. We have recently received a request response from you, and we also see it in the budget estimates how far it is expected that more of these services or more of these possibilities will be used. There you, Mr Minister, do not expect precisely ambitious goals, which remain quite the same, from 2014, 2015, 2016 to over 2017. I would like to see the opportunities in the immediate situation where someone is in need of care not be able to go into the job for a short time in order to provide immediate help. I don't quite understand that there should be more of these possibilities. It's 80 percent women who use these services, and I would like us to create much more opportunities for women, caregivers to really use these services. This requires, for example, a right to care leave, and it also needs the possibility by this legal claim that it does not depend on the goodwill – which is always given – of the service provider, the service provider, whether you can go to the care career or part-time care. So a little more commitment beyond the government period, not only in financial terms, but also in what we imagine, how people in this country, the elderly – and we all do – are well cared for and cared for at age! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e26828	The next item is the speech by Mr Wöginger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e26850	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing the chapter Work and Social Affairs, actually the largest budget chapter, if you want to say so, with around €8 billion in the field of work, €11 billion in the field of pensions and around 2.7 billion in the field of care. One thing was mentioned at the outset: It does not help us here, either right or left, to meet the challenges we have in this area. [[Abg. Neubauer:... ÖVP!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] It can only be the power of the middle, ladies and gentlemen, which brings the right approaches here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. New builder: But the middle is there!]] This federal government has shown very well in recent months that it sets the right standards here, especially when it comes to the development of the labour market. We have about 30 000 people in employment, compared with the previous year, but we also have an increasing unemployment rate, which has now been around 30 000 people for months. We now have a little hopefulness when we take the western Länder, where the rise in unemployment is stagnating, even slightly declining, so to speak, a turnaround of the trend has started. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Well, if so...!]] What has the government done over the past few months, what we also decide to do with the budget? – Oh, but we have decided on a labour market package, yesterday we decided with the budget accompanying laws, we have implemented an additional wage reduction, the tax reform has been decided, which will stimulate growth in our country, the housing offensive to which we have agreed and agreed. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: After nothing you did!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Wunderwuzzi tax reform!]] We spend more money on active labour market policy, 300 million in next year, 350 million in permanent operation from 2017. We have agreed on a bonus malus system in order to also focus on the employment of older people, because it will only be possible to secure pensions on a sustainable basis. All of this is a package with an approximately plus of 60 000 jobs in Austria, and it cannot be said that nothing is done. I would like to stress this, ladies and gentlemen, in my view, it is the right measures to be taken here in Parliament. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr Federal Minister, the budget in the field of work has been increased by around € 1 billion, because it is necessary because of the tense situation. In the pension area, we are talking about €11 billion. Of course, we have an increasing trend as regards the federal contribution, 9.8 billion 2012, 13.4 billion, according to forecast 2019. The question that many people in this country ask, including us from the ÖVP, is: We have a good system, but is it sustainable enough? Are the measures taken sufficient? We see here an improvement in general with regard to the age of entry, i.e. the measures we have taken starting with 2014. I only take the example of hacker pensions, we rise in the area, in the age pensions from 59.8 years to 60.2 years, in the I-pensions from 52.1 years to 54.7 years. In the case of invalidity pensions, we have changed between the under 50s to rehab money, which is a good thing in itself. We see, however, the need for improvement, Mr Federal Minister, in the field of vocational rehabilitation. You also mentioned this in the Committee's deliberations that we need to be more efficient here. The question of pensions is how the long-term development of the federal contribution is. That means, how much do we have to pay for the pension system from the tax pot? [[Interlocutory calls from Members of the House of Representatives of Kassinger and Belakovich-Jenewein.]] We have a paragraph in the ASVG, namely § 108e, where five parameters are addressed, namely the contribution rate, the increase percentage, the retirement age, the federal contribution and the annual pension adjustment. And these five factors will have to be from my point of view to be able to really make the system sustainable. In order to be able to pay, above all, the pensions of the following generations, who support the system with their contributions in accordance with the principle of payment, it must be that additional sustainability enters the system. I do not want to talk about this, but it will be necessary, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, a point, and this is not hysteria, so that this is equally clear: This is about the need-oriented minimum guarantee. We acknowledge the need-oriented minimum security, because it is necessary to support people who are in need, such as single-parent families. But we also need to take up reforms in this area, as far as benefits are concerned, as a whole. And above all: There must be a return to the labour market. The need-oriented minimum guarantee shall not be a permanent service or a permanent support. We are committed to this, but we are speaking specifically of the need for reform in this area. Overall, however, a good budget, which reaches the area of work and social affairs, which is also designed accordingly for the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e26983	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e27005	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Appreciate viewers! If you listen to your colleague Wöginger like that, you don't feel that the ÖVP has been in the government for 29 years and has been responsible for that, which is not all right here. I spoke yesterday – unfortunately, the Minister has not heard me – of the fact that the budget in social policy is a continuing betrayal of generations. The true developments will be hidden, and the numbers will be turned – the expression comes, I think from your coalition partner, that you are master of the number feng shui – until it looks good. And you're doing very well. I would like to refer once again to the labour market budget. This will not keep as it stands inside, not only I say, but also the budget service, because you are still calculating off the unemployment figures that we adopted in spring, and we know that economic development was much more inconvenient than it was then believed. For this reason, you will lack several million in the area if unemployment increases by 20 percent from 2014 to 2016 and the estimated funds for unemployment and emergency aid are only increased by 10 percent. You don't have to be an accounting genius to understand that this isn't going to happen. You have told us in the committee with your own humor that the Minister of Finance and you do not agree on the figures. But just to write in the number that is more politically comfortable, I don't think that's the right way. Wherever you disagree with the Minister of Finance, that is the pension area. In the budget we now assume a federal grant of €11 billion. We will probably decide this tomorrow by a majority. And one day later, the Pension Insurance Commission will decide on other figures, i.e. figures based on the assumptions of the Ministry of Social Affairs and not on the figures of the Ministry of Finance. So you don't agree within the government. How do you get the difference? This will then be different from Thursday to Friday 240 million € in the federal grant to the pensions by simply turning a little at all pitchers. But because it's a lot of pensioners and a lot of references, many small parking screws give a big sum. They are based on a little more employees who pay a little more contributions and who are also a little less compensaters. And voilà: A few parking screws rotated – 240 million € found. This dyeing goes on, of course, because next year you can say: Oh, we have remained below the spending limit, because the Minister of Finance has set a higher amount than the one you assumed. Then you come from the social democratic side – which is certainly still here today – and say: What the hell are you talking about?Unknown term type: "%s".? It is all right anyway because, as measured by the gross domestic product, the federal grant to pensions almost does not rise at all. – You can’t say it often enough: We do not pay the pensions of gross domestic product, but we pay the pensions primarily from the allowances, from the contributions, and all that does not come in there must be financed through the federal grant, through tax funds. And if we have fewer and fewer contributors and more and more pensioners in relation to this, then the proportion of what we have to do will increase. [[Abg. Neubauer: This is a wrong end!]] That's right, Mr. Neubauer. Your pension theme, which is much worse than that of the Federal Minister, because if you put your proposals into practice, we could return €9 billion every year. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] I would advise the financial politicians in the FPÖ that they should talk to their social politicians once. In your group, the left does not know what the rights are doing. Rule times! If you now look at the estimated accounts in the pension area more closely, then one notices: In total, the federal contribution increases by 3.2 percent, but within a carrier, within the PVA it increases by 4.6 percent, and that is the largest carrier. There would be a look at it – I have tried to get it out of your committee – to see why exactly this carrier is developing worse than the cut. And thus an essential pillar of our system stands on cheeky legs. You've probably read it all in the newspaper, yesterday the young industry presented a study that makes the contribution coverage of pensions shocking, namely in many cases around 60 percent. You'll explain to me afterwards, no, that's far more than 80 percent, because you're not expecting it individually per person, how much the person has paid and how much they get out, but you're expecting how much is now lost and how much we're spending now. And that's why you're getting a better cut. But there you have neither the development of the contributors, nor have you calculated life expectancy. If you see this individually, the state on average has to put far more than 30 percent on pensions in the ASVG area. It's not in any proportion. This is the system error that belongs to adjusted. And there the Social Democrats and the moderate Social Democrats are responsible for doing something and implementing the levers. In the field of care – Mr Schwentner mentioned it correctly – there would be a lot to do. But we – I use the expression of the President of the Chamber of Commerce, Leitl – continue to wrangle us from budget to budget, there is a bit of a screw, then the care fund will be extended once, but we do not have the really big solution for a number of caregivers who will double over the next few decades. And that's where you're responsible. Finally, I would like to sum up: The social systems with us are not sustainable, neither in unemployment insurance nor in pension insurance, nor in the care sector. And that's the sadness of this budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e27050	Next: Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e27072	Madam President. Estimated Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Loacker, I think that the best social policy is also a good wage policy, and that is why we also need to see that people deserve good. If people earn well, more contributions also come into the system, and then our social systems are also more sustainable. In this direction, I think, we all have to work together. [[In the case of the SPÖ, representatives of the ÖVP and the Agg. Honey.]] I would, however, like to focus on care in my speech. Mrs Schwentner has already done so in her contribution. I also think that the care of our older fellow human beings has become one of the central issues of social policy in Austria. Also, due to demographic development and also due to God, thanks to the higher life expectancy expected, we must ensure that we ensure sustainable care. The aim is to maintain the good quality of care we have in Austria from my point of view. To do this, I am convinced that a bundle of measures will be needed. On the one hand, we need the care allowance that guarantees the self-determined life for people who need care. However, we also need differentiated offers, whether in the extramural area, whether in the stationary area, so that people also receive the care they want. We also need the support of the caring family. We know that 80 percent of people are being cared for at home. There, too, one has to look to keep these people healthy. And, of course, we also need quality training in the care sector so that people who work in the care sector can exercise their profession in good health for a long time, it is a very demanding profession. Of course, I see this a little different from you, I think that in recent years, the Minister of Dog Torfer has had a very great view. In fact, with the care fund, he has created an instrument that really addresses exactly what you have called for, Mrs Schwentner, namely that we are looking to ensure that quality is respected, that there is a uniform standard throughout Austria that people, no matter where they live, receive the same care. A first important step has been taken here with the care fund. You know, in the years 2011 to 2016 we have spent €1.3 billion in the care funds and thus actually took over the tasks of the countries. And this care fund will continue to be spent at € 650 million next year – a very, very important step. I also find it important and correct that in 2016 the care allowance is increased by 2 per cent for all care providers. A small contribution to bring the care allowance back to that people can also afford their quality care. And, of course, in the budget – this is also very important to me – budget posts for the support of the caring family are also included again. We have donated the support fund for caregivers with €12 million, we have spent around €80 million in the budget for the 24-hour care. So I think Federal Minister Hundstorfer really proves with this budget that care is important to him. I'm sure I'll talk to him about the far-sighted look you'll meet him with.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e27138	Next speaker: Mrs Dietrich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e27160	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Social policy fulfils a very essential task, among other things, to see that people in this country are doing well and that people are protected from poverty. If you look at the statistics, you can see that in Austria we have 1.2 million people at risk of poverty. This is a number that we need to think about and talk about. 37,000 people are homeless. Now it is cold, it is already cold, Christmas is coming to us, and I believe, Mr Social Affairs, it is important to have the heart on the right spot for the Austrian people as well and to help these people and to do something for these people. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The labour market – my colleagues have already mentioned it – is one of the great challenges, not only of the present, but also of the future, because the forecasts that are emerging are anything but gratifying: From now on, 410 000, we are going straight to 500 000 unemployed. It is therefore also clear that we had to increase the budget in this area by around one billion to over eight billion. And if this continues, we will need more and more money to manage this labour market in order to manage the unemployed. We from the Stronach team have a completely different access. We would like to see what the former vice chancellor of the ÖVP has said about the “unbundling of the economy” that this is actually happening at last. But, ladies and gentlemen, what has happened instead of detachment? A gag, a crime. And on the other hand, let us keep our trust! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] And don't be surprised when many entrepreneurs say that we are no longer willing to hire additional workers in these obstacles, in these conditions, in this bureaucracy! This is the product of this government, this overbureaucratisation. But the fact that things are different shows us countries like England, who say quite clearly: We want a reindustrialization. After decades of industrial jobs have been lost, we deliberately want to create framework conditions that will ensure that the industrial site can be strengthened. And that is exactly what I would like to see from the Austrian Federal Government. Nevertheless, ladies and gentlemen, the situation on the labour market is divided. On the one hand, we have a lot of unemployed people, and on the other hand, we have sectors where there is a deficit in which many people do not want to work anymore, such as tourism. Here too, we need to rethink the need-oriented minimum security. It may not be that someone who refers on average €828 needs-oriented minimum security, family allowance and much more, so to over €2,000 net, then says: Why should I do it to work in tourism? I know this is a delicate subject, but I expect that we will discuss it clearly and honestly. However, the social state also costs money, money that every single taxpayer pays with his many taxes and taxes. That is why, I believe, it is legitimate for us to say that this social state has limits to financialability and it also needs borders. We cannot burden people infinitely with taxes and taxes and distribute this money as in the lottery! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] One of these limits, which I would like to address, is limited immigration. We cannot allow unlimited immigration because this cannot be financed by the social state. Ladies and gentlemen! To the pensions. Also an essential element: How are people who have worked hard for a lifetime when they are older? At the pensions we have a wrong situation, which is not to be accepted! While an ASVG-pensionist in the state has shot around €100 000, the officials still have €400 000, counting on the time span in which you are retired. [[Abg. Wöginger: There is also the service provider's contribution!]] It cannot be said that in Austria one is vehemently opposed to attacking privileges, namely privileges of those who already have pensions beyond €20 000, heading for €30 000. It can't be that one doesn't even say clearly: Stop, it's not about the percentage increase being gilded again with the great privileges! Ladies and gentlemen, this is extremely unsocial! If you are opposed to this circumstance, let us see together that we abolish the privileges, in a form that also deserves the name Privilegian Degradation! Greece has shown us that it is very possible to intervene in high pensions, and I do not want us to wait so long in Austria for reforms, until the sparry belt is really so tight for everyone that the entire population suffers. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] A word on the subject of care. We welcome the introduction of the federal care fund because it is a step in the right direction, a step towards self-determination that you can decide for yourself in what form you are then cared for or cared for at age. But: Even if 2016 has an increase of 2 percent, however, if you look back at the period, since 2009 alone inflation has been minimizing by more than 12 percent. Ladies and gentlemen, let us make every effort to ensure that people can make their own self-determined, with sufficient financial resources, with their evening of life! Minister, to you: Please see that during the financial compensatory negotiations with the countries, you will finally ensure that there are uniform standards in Austria! People deserve this, and we expect your commitment to do so. In this sense, a happiness for the people who need care! Let us all make sure that the framework conditions fit so that these people are well!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e27228	Mr Hundstorfer spoke next. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e27250	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I have sometimes believed in the debate, some of them living in another country. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: We already know that!]] [[Abg. New builder: We've known this sentence for five years!]] So let me get a few things straight. Dear Mrs Ing. Dietrich, there are not 47 000 homeless, there are 14 600! So that we can only have the same relationship. [[Abg. Auer: This is a small difference!]] That's a little difference. Many companies would like this as an increase rate. [[Abg. Lugar: “37,000 ” she said!]] Look, there are 14 600 that are reported that are registered and that will also have their place in winter. Let's go. Let's go, let's go. And there's no need to spend homeless lives on the street in Austria unless he wants it. [[Abg. Lugar: Then go to the city park and take a look at this!]] Mr deputies, look, this is the massive difference between us: I'm in the city park with the Caritas twice a year, without media, without anything, I don't need it. I'm there and I'm talking to these people. Just as I have visited people who have been living on the Danube Island for 25 years. Do you know how to hurt the most? If you put a key to him! This is also part of the reality of our lives. [[Abg. Lugar: And that at minus 5 degrees today!]] Yeah, but I was there. It is a bit different whether you are living social policy by claiming wrong figures or by talking to people directly and working. [[It is in favour of SPÖ and ÖVP, as well as of Green MEPs.]] I would also like to say something to the BMS so that a few things can be done. The BMS in Austria averages 9.1 months. I'm sorry, but the You can get these numbers from all the district captains. Statistics Austria has finally gathered all of this. 9.1 months is the average in Austria. - That's one point. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: Yes, and then you start counting again...!]] Point two: The district authorities have everything in hand to control. Everything! The district authorities can cut shorts, can be granted temporarily – it's all possible. There are also district authorities that grant only three months. There are district authorities that grant six months. And there are district administration authorities – even in three national laws that are inside – that grant a maximum of one year. All these possibilities are available. There are also the cuts: Last year, the state of Vienna shortened 9 300 times, more than 1,000 of them to zero. It's already being looked! It's not like you're looking away. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] Of course, there are people who think in this system, they want to judge it a little. [[Abg. Katzian: (in the direction of FPÖ) Check! You don't need to call me! You've got enough documents! Look!]] Yeah, you just need to look at... [[Abg. Krainer: Listen and learn!]] [[Abg. Katzian: Read! Then you don't need to scream in!]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: But this is increasingly difficult in this educational policy!]] [[Abg. Heinzl: The important thing! The important thing from Krems!]] [[Further calls and calls between FPÖ and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, look, you can look at all these broadcasts. It's all transparent, you can read it yourself. The district authorities can do anything. But I suppose, ladies and gentlemen, it... [[Further ongoing calls and calls between SPÖ and FPÖ representatives.]] Point one: So the district authorities can do anything. Even today, we do not need to change anything, you can afford benefits in kind. It's all possible! You just have to live the article-15a agreement right. Of course, after it expires, we will continue to shape it, even better, just as we are trying to reintegrate people into the labour market. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: This is a dangerous threat!]] Since the BMS, we have brought 100 000 people into the labour market. It's exactly 101 000. Now I am also coming to the topic of asylum and asylum seekers entitled to asylum. – Yes, the Austrian labour market faces a massive challenge, no question at all. The Austrian labour market is therefore facing a massive challenge because a few things take place at the same time. We have 34 000 jobs more in this country than in October of the previous year. 34,000 jobs more! We have the highest level of employment ever since this country existed. – I say it at once: one million part-time; so that we do not misunderstand. [[Abg. Steinbichler: In the productive field or...?]] That, Mr President, is exactly the level I mean here. Then: Every person who has a productive job is counted as a worker. And these are 3,6 million people in this country who get their money here! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We do not make any difference in unemployment statistics at all. We all point out in the figures that those who are absolutely unemployed, without any activity, and those who are involved in a training activity. And what is added – so that this is also clarified –: 15 percent of the people behind the figures of these statistics get no reference from the AMS – because we also have these transparent figures: If a student doesn't find a job immediately after his studies and says I'm looking for him, then he's in the statistics, but he doesn't get any money, because he doesn't have a legal claim, because he hasn't done a job yet. The same applies to those entitled to asylum: Yes, we have 19 000 asylum seekers, but 9 000 do not receive EUR from the AMS. These are people who are still inside the BMS, but we immediately, after having obtained their asylum status, prove to be a job-seeking person. So we are perfectly transparent here, and this naturally leads to numbers that are the way they are. [[Abg. Kickl: Yes, that's how they are!]] But: 34 000 jobs more – without tax reform, without housing package, without other economic impulses! I think we're not going so badly in this country. There is also a number that will be very happy to forget – I say that very openly; also partly by my friends from the economy –: We have a 7 percent drop in insolvency. That is, the Austrian economy cannot be so bad together. And I can only do some of the additional wage reduction because there is this decline in insolvency. Only that is why I can do some of the additional wage reduction because I do not need the money because I have these 7 percent less insolvency! That is, the Austrian economy is already better together than we always agree on it ourselves. No question, a huge challenge is the future – that is clear. And if I am required to make a sectoral closure of the labour market, we all know that this is incompatible with our membership of the European Union. We all know that. We all know: When I do this, two things happen. Point one: We can say goodbye to Europe. Tell the Austrians the truth and don't always hide it! – That's point one. Point two: Explain It is the Austrian economy that is involved in Eastern European EU countries, and not so much! Point three: Explain to the 300 000 Austrians employed abroad: Go home! For this reason, it is also said: Return! I think you should think about that, too. I admit, populists always have it easy. Populists can stand up and say: Sectoral closure, and everything is good!, knowing very well that with the sectoral closure the... [[Abg. Kickl: You can also be a populist if you say we can do everything! That's populism too!]] Yeah, look, and that's exactly the challenge now. The challenge 1 is to continue bringing this increase together on the labour market, and the challenge 2 is, of course, to allow for integration for people who have now come in. That's a challenge, that's not a question at all, one that won't be to be dealt with from one day to the next. [[Abg. Kickl: But how about slowing or stopping the inflow? Is that even happening in your considerations?]] You know very well that the most diverse activities at the EU's external border of immigration make it sound like a stop. You know that. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Where?]] And you also know that we have a lot less requests at the hour than we did last week. You know that, too. [[Abg. Kickl: How many will it be all this time?]] According to my estimate, 80 000 applications. Requests! - I didn't call you a new number. The Minister of the Interior tells this every other day. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein:... 95 000, but it does nothing! They're all kids!]] Now we come to the next figures. Of these applicants, 25 percent are between 0 and 15 years of age. - Point one. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein:... talk to the Minister for the Interior!]] Point two: Yes, there are, of course, a number of people who will be there, and this number will be: 30 000 in the course of the year. And these 30,000 are the challenge. These 30,000 – which do not appear at once, but go as fast as the procedures – are our challenge. It is important that we all come together. That means we're looking at: Where can additional jobs be created?, because at the hour where we sit here and discuss it, in Western Austria 3 700 free teaching places have been available, and this has been so for a long time. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: How many?]] 3 700 free teaching places that have been free for a long time! That is why we have also tried, in addition, in the economic package, to create means to bring people there for these teaching institutions. As far as unemployment is concerned, there are, of course, many thunderstorm clouds, not a question, but in Tyrol we have for the first time a zero, an absolute zero increase in unemployment – for the first time. Vorarlberg is with high probability At the end of this month a zero can also be recorded, and in Salzburg, in January, it will be the case that we have a zero increase, an increase in unemployment. Let us also see this as something positive – knowing that, of course, there are many problems in the rest of Austria; knowing that, of course, we have a displacement competition in which those who came 25 years ago are being pushed out by younger foreign citizens, no question at all. As well as Austrians abroad are: 60 000 people from Austria work in the Federal Republic of Germany. – We live in this common Europe! We export to this common Europe. Our entire export-oriented industry exports 60 percent only in this common Europe. And if you live in this common Europe, you also have common challenges, and these common challenges must be met. As a result, we have tried to make much more money available for the unemployed, for the active labour market policy. In this context, you may also accept: You may assume that what we have in addition money is very good for that group that lives here with us, which has become unemployed here with us. That is why we have also made available funds in addition, especially for the group of asylum seekers. This group of asylum seekers therefore does not take away anything from anyone who has lived here for a long time or has always lived here and has become unemployed. Let's try to discuss this as it is in truth: We have created pots here for activating labour market policies all over, and we have stolen an additional pot for an activating labour market policy for those entitled to asylum. And we have also developed an additional programme. This additional programme is a so-called voluntary year of integration, for which the framework conditions have already been decided. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: They are not even pension insured!]] Look, now it’s “not even pension insurance! ” [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: That's right!]] – It is about giving people in a voluntary year of integration a chance to integrate! Likewise, someone who makes the voluntary social year is not pension insurance. But for these groups of persons – and we will implement this, that will be 1,000 people entering this voluntary year of integration – we are simply trying to speed up integration through these activating measures. Before I conclude, I would like to clarify the following: In the case of pensions, ladies and gentlemen, the system is crisis-proof, the system can be financed if that happens, which has always been necessary. And, Mr Loacker, as far as your speech is concerned, I would ask you to look into the archive: When the decision of the ASVG was taken in 1955, the same speech was given by anyone from this Assembly. - Nothing new! [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Mr Loacker and Mr Scherak.]] We have a system based on a charging procedure. And as the term “disbursement” already says, it was decided by the house that a certain part is a state grant, and this part of state aid is, of course, expressed in figures. And you know very well that in this state grant we add things that pay health insurance in other countries, and in other countries it pays social assistance – but we expect them to do so for many reasons. As a result, studies that are done here again and again are nice, but wrong. This is what Mr Ulrich Schuh knows, because we discuss it every ten days at various panel discussions. The overall federal grant is only 20 percent of what goes out of services for the workers and employees, because 80 percent of the people, the employers and employees, themselves. It is clear that there is a special situation for two groups of pensioners: Farmers have no chance to reach 100 percent coverage rate – not because they don't want it, but because it simply can't go from the numbers because we have much more retired farmers than still active farmers. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: This can't happen if 1 400...!]] With regard to the pension insurance of the commercials, it is quite simply also that the service provider is missing here because the insured person is the service provider himself. As a result, there are also the pension heights of others – you also have to say that. That means – a long speech of short meaning –: The system remains crisis-proof when two conditions are met. This is a high level of employment on the one hand – and we have the same figures, Mr. Finanzminister and I, we are using exactly the same; the question is always just what is the date of forecasting, which makes a very decisive difference. – That's the one point. The second point is: We must work together to ensure that people retire later. The actual retirement age must increase. We will have taken a substantial step again this year when the year is over. But these are the two parameters. Mrs Dietrich, I am not doing any supplementary education now – please do not understand – but the civil servants' pension system has been set up differently from home in 1851/52. We are in a transitional phase, and we are actually living it out in this transitional phase, because the method of calculating civil servants' pensions is the same as in the ASVG, exactly the same. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: But not the height!]] As a result, even in the future, the same heights as in the ASVG are coming out of official pensions, exactly the same, because it is the same method of calculation. But we live in a transitional model, and in this transitional model it takes. I was the only minister who agreed to present you with a special pension law. And to think of me, I didn't intervene: I'll send you the protest letter of those concerned! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e27676	Next, Mrs Mag. Aubauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e27698	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! I'm very happy to answer your appeal. We will only face the challenges of the future if we stand together here together. That is, I think, an important statement. We're very happy to be there. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] For pensions: There is a lot of positive in this budget. If you are already in pension and have, for example, a gross pension of € 1,000 per month, you will get € 110 from the state. Another example: A senior who has a gross pension of €2 400 pays 1 000 less taxes. 1 000 € more remain available for free per year. – This tax relief is clearly positive. It is also positive that the budget includes the cost of pensions. It is included in the increase in the care allowance. – These are all positive developments that are not so obvious today. I'm glad that we succeeded together! But that doesn't mean we can rest now. No, we need reforms to ensure pensions for our grandchildren, for the whole boy. Quite clear: If you live longer, you should also be able to work healthy longer, you should continue to pay into the system and you should get a higher pension. The EU and OECD experts say that we need an earlier adjustment of the retirement age of women to that of men, so that women can also receive an independent and higher pension once, as well as a link of the statutory retirement age to life expectancy, so that, if we live longer, we also work part of it longer. That would be fair to the boys – a mechanism of justice, that would be fair. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What we need, of course, are jobs, jobs, jobs for older people. This budget therefore invests a lot of money for older workers, from reintegration aid to the new sub-pension. That also motivates us to stay in the job longer. Many private companies strive very much for their older workers – they retrain them, they continue to form them – but not all. There is, for example, the mail that does not try to keep people in operation for longer: No, there are raised finishes offered, and these golden handshakes are obviously not so gold at all. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: What does the Minister of Finance say about this?]] – I quote from the Austrian Press Agency, a Postler says: “Healthy and willing employees are needed for inactivity.” [[Abg. Kickl: Is there also at ORF!]] Ladies and gentlemen, we will see with Argusaugen whether or not any person is really required to accept this early pension, because it is really a devastating signal in the present time that we are pushing older employees into the early board, since it finally pays the general public. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Not looking, but the Minister of Finance...!]] [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Honey.]] To the address of the post: I call on the post to take back this immoral offer of older employees! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Tell the Minister of Finance!]] My last sentence: This budget contains a lot of positive things: paying less taxes, good prospects. If we are still creating some reforms, we will bring this to the top of our Austria again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e27798	Next speaker: Mrs Dr Belakovich-Jenewein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e27819	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Aubauer, you already know that the Republic is majority-owners of the Post, right? Your criticism is a little empty. You're asking for the mail. – Talk to the Minister of Finance, that may be easier! He's from your group anyway. Mr. Federal Minister Hundstorfer, you made yourself here today and told us how great it is: In the last year, 34 000 additional jobs have been created which go unemployment, I think you will have returned to Salzburg at the latest in January. Next month, she goes back to Vorarlberg and Tyrol – so everything is really wonderful. [[Federal Minister Hundstorfer: I didn't say!]] - Didn't you say? [[Federal Minister Hundstorfer: I didn't say no!]] - Then I questioned myself. But you said it was going back. [[Federal Minister Hundstorfer: Yes, in the three countries, but not in the rest! I didn't say!]] – I said anyway: the three countries! I said yes. [[Federal Minister Hundstorfer: Listen before you...!]] - Listen to me! I just said that you said, in Salzburg in January and in Vorarlberg and Tyrol soon, so probably in December already; so it's really wonderful what you're telling here. At the same time, you have said that in these three countries you are talking about, there are 3,700 open teaching places. Then you'll send the asylum seekers, they'll do it all! A wonderful system! You've already introduced that in 2012. Since 2012, asylum seekers up to 25 years of age have been able to complete an apprenticeship. A “unscrupulous” successful model, Mr. Federal Minister! To this day, 245 people have been in use, and more than half have stopped in advance. So with those you won't be able to occupy these 3 700 teaching places, you know that very well, but you say just how great You're going to bring this performance! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A sentence from you I got a little bit in the back of my mind, too: They spoke of multiple activities at the EU's external borders. – What should happen there – on a number of occasions – is not quite clear to me. In addition, fewer asylum seekers have come to Austria this week than one week ago. [[Abg. Loacker: We are in social policy, not...!]] Yes, we already know that this is always in wave movements. Mr Federal Minister, I am not going to discuss this with you now, but the Minister of the Interior said again yesterday that she expects a total of 95 000 people to apply for asylum in this year. 80 percent of these are young men, i.e. your bill with the 25 percent children can no longer go out at all. This means that there is a huge amount of work going on to a labour market, but there are no jobs at all. And you're telling us now in your budget something about some phantom numbers that push you once, then push them back, then we'll take 50 million, and if that's not enough, we'll just take 20 million away, then we'll have 70 million. - There we go! This whole budget is in no way clear. You tell something here, you throw millions of money around: That doesn't work, Minister of State, and you know it very well! There's a gap here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I know, of course, that you hope that we will send quite a lot of these asylum seekers to Germany. That is, as it were, the objective of our Austrian Federal Government. Just, even there, it will not be feasible. Germany currently has 3 million unemployed and 600,000 open jobs. So if you hope and expect us to get the great help from there, Mr. Federal Minister, then you are wrong. There, too, the situation is similar. So it is not the case that the jobs like the Schwammerls rupture out of the ground. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Crist.]] You said something else: that the break-up of EU legislation, for example, the demand for sectoral labour market closure, meant the end of the EU. Mr. Federal Minister, as part of this federal government, you have been breaking EU laws every day for months. Did that change anything? And now you're gonna make yourself up here and say that you can't do that. I've already told you: With this reproach you no longer need to come, because the EU law is being broken every day, and you are part of this federal government. They're breaking with you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Then it goes even further – your whole speech was such a thing about us – then you said we are facing pan-European challenges. Who is this whole Europe? Who's that? That's not a homogeneous unit! What does it look like in Poland? They're doing this quite differently than we are! Why must Austria always be on the wrong side? Mr Federal Minister, why can't we even say: No, I can't, it's closed! - No chance! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You know, you always come up with your sad and sad stories, so if we now have the sectoral labour market closure, then all employees from Austria who are now working in any other EU country must immediately give up their job and return to Austria. – How to come Is that what you're talking about? There has already been an exchange before the freedom of movement of workers. I think you said – not that you tell me now again, I have to listen! –, 30 000 Austrians work in Germany. Did I say that right now? [[Federal Minister Hundstorfer: No, wrong!]] - Wrong? Then say it again! - Good. [[Federal Minister Hundstorfer: No thank you! You can't get the remedial hour today!]] See, that's the way it is. [[Call the FPÖ:60 000!]] – 60,000 were. Mr Federal Minister, you know, people from Austria have already worked in Germany, since we have not yet been to the EU! They constantly mix apples with pears. [[Call the SPÖ: You do!]] In reality, this budget is a declaration of bankruptcy. They have no approach to this labour market at all. Unemployment, unemployment and unemployment are heading towards 500 000 – quite massively by the way in Vienna; as you explained to us in the Committee, that is a special situation, that is only because of the counterparts from Lower Austria. – Mr Minister, this is homemade! You have no approach, and you have no way. When we look at the AMS: The courses are down now, but throughout the AMS you only have heads, but no more Indians. When you look at how many business leaders there are: in each federal state, of course, a red one and a black one that all have huge incomes. There's money there. There's no need to worry about it. [[Abg. Lueger: What are you talking about? No one understands that!]] - What am I talking about? Look, Mrs. Lueger, I know everything's okay in your little red world. Half a million unemployed people are not interested in you. We have already noticed this with the Federal Minister. We have half a million unemployed! The only thing that happens in this government, the only thing that works, is that you occupy the “heads”, the AMS managing director. That's good, and they deserve quite well. And if you do not want to believe it or if you do not know what it is about, ladies and gentlemen, especially of the Red, just read in the relevant questions I have put to the Federal Minister and he has kindly answered me very thoroughly! That's exactly the problem. Mr Federal Minister, you yourself give answers in written answers and then come here and talk something completely different! That's the problem, that's it! You're talking about teaching places you want to occupy. - It doesn't work. They're talking about the highly qualified asylum seekers. - It doesn't work. [[Abg. Lueger: Who says that? Who says it doesn't work?]] And you're talking about the AMS schools. - There's no more money for that. [[Abg. Kristist: In your little world, this may not work!]] Now it will no longer be possible in a short or long time: There will have to be an additional levy for the AMS in order to be able to afford unemployment insurance in the first place. Unemployment is increasing dramatically. The only thing you do, Mr. Federal Minister, is sit down here and tell yourself in your offended way that people actually don't get any money from the AMS and actually everything is wonderful and will be all right next year. Mr Federal Minister, this budget is in no way thought out. There's no plan behind that at all. I tell you quite honestly: In reality, you have disqualified yourself.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e28037	Next speaker: Mr Spindelberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e28058	Madam President. Mrs Belakovich-Jenewein, I find it embarrassing to see what cynicism, with which polemics You have addressed this delicate issue, because we do not need to explain to anyone how difficult the labour market situation in Austria is, and this has not been a good thing for anyone, including the Minister. [[Abg. Kickl: Why would you like to add it? They're also hot! That's the problem! You don't understand!]] That's exactly the point: That's why you're always talking stupid. In contrast to you, the Federal Government has set many labour market policy accents to address this problem at all. [[Abg. Kickl: What does “Lord Become ”? You're just a passenger!]] – Don’t always talk stupid in between! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[He-Rufe at the FPÖ.]] For me, in this whole development, something quite different – Mr Wöginger has also done it – is that in more than 30 percent of businesses, no single employee/no more is employed than 55 years old. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: But what do we do about it?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] It can't be! First, the employees rack off until the fall, take over hours and no more – in the previous year 270 million overtimes were done – and if they can no longer bring the full performance, they get the famous kick in the butt. It can't be. This is not the responsibility of entrepreneurs as so-called social partners. If, as a result of the economic situation, we increase the benefits for older workers for the next two years to € 250 million in order to facilitate, among other things, the return of older people, and if we reduce additional labour costs, I expect the economic operators to accept it. While countless other countries in this area are setting up the savings fund, in Austria we have budgeted €2.8 billion for labour market policy for the next year and €2.8 billion for next year. It must also be recognised that the tax reform decision, which will benefit 6 million Austrians, will also contribute to boosting the labour market, such as housing initiatives and intensive broadband development. I know that we still face enormous challenges as regards employment, but we have to scratch the sleeves together, and we must not pretend that the budget is the only cause of the evil. - It's not that! Let us talk about it without a taboo – you, Mr Wöginger, I would like to address specifically – how we can put the funding of the health and social system on new feet! We need to talk about innovative working time reduction models as well as value added taxes and asset taxes. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Just to talk about putting the thumb screws back on with the ASVG-pensionists, while for the officials – Mr. Minister – this is also addressed to you! – a 45-year transitional period has been decided here in this hall, it cannot be. I personally have no understanding that a hacker, who works well for 47 years and pays his contributions for 47 years, will now come back to the handcushion.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e28149	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Honey. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e28170	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I think we all agree that the labour market crisis is probably the biggest social challenge we are currently facing. Inclusive family members are probably almost 2 million affected. In view of this situation, I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, from the Government parties: Are you really of the opinion that you have done everything you can to combat this unemployment and to support jobseekers as best you can? [[Abg. Heinzl: Yes!]] [[Abg. Heinzl: Yes!]] Do you think you've done everything you can? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Heinzl: What did you contribute to this?]] Ladies and gentlemen, you will now be the first to say – it is about the budget – that: 8 billion €, much more than last year; but you also know that most of these funds are only going into unemployment benefit because we have more unemployment. If we look more closely at this, then the fact is that, per job seeker, less money is constantly available for qualification measures, for training measures. Another fact is that the caretakers at the AMS are becoming more and more overloaded. Nearly 600 persons have to advise a caretaker; there is no longer a good quality service. And a third fact: Unemployment benefit or emergency aid, or the net replacement rate, is all so low in Austria that unemployment means entry into poverty. I have to ask you again: Are you satisfied with how you deal with the situation of unemployment? I'll tell you: It's just not enough what you're doing! Certainly – all the experts and experts say so – in the current situation labour market policy is at its limits. It no longer helps to train and further qualify only job-seekers. What we need now is jobs, more jobs and more jobs. If ten or twelve jobseekers come to a free position, it is clear in what direction we need to work. I have to ask you again: Does this government do everything you can from the government parties to provide more jobs? [[Abg. Bösch: The boundaries close, for example!]] How do you answer this question, ladies and gentlemen? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] How do jobs arise? – First: through investment, through public investment. You will refer to the housing package. I hope it comes after three years of promise. But if you take the comments of the experts seriously: What do they say? – Of course we need the apartments, the housing package is good, but these jobs doll up, and when the construction site is gone, they are gone again. We need jobs that are sustainable. We need investment for jobs in the field of care and care. There is a high need, and these investments are workable. We need investment in the field of energy transition. And what are you doing? – You'll cut down on the thermal renovation! As a result, thousands of jobs are lost again. That can't be it, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Second point, how do jobs arise? – By reducing the labour factor by giving work to entrepreneurs becomes cheaper! Getting Now They say: Yes, we do! But what are you doing? – You take the money away from the families at the same time! The cuts will not take place next year, but what is the next year? What's in two years? You can't assure us with the measure you're taking here. It's perfectly clear: The labour factor needs to be relieved, but not as much as you do, but with a real tax structure reform: Relieving labour, refinancing with eco-taxes and capital-related taxes. – That’s how it is done, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Neubauer: More taxes? Great!]] So: public investment, relief of the factor work. And how do the jobs come about? – By increasing the consumption capacity of people! We need higher consumption capacity. The money is spent, the whole runs into the economy. They will say: the tax reform! But how did you do that? Who do you most relieve? Who benefits most from this tax reform? – Those who deserve the most in this country! And what will they do with the extra money? – Either they bring it to the Sparkasse, or they invest it in travel abroad. Well, that's a great effect on our economy! [[Abg. New builder: Bank Austria would be good right now!]] Instead, it would have been necessary to give the lowest income more. We all know that there is a high consumer need there. The money invested there flows one to one into consumption and thus into the economy. [[Abg. Tamandel: The negative tax has been increased by €300! I don't know how that's too little!]] Ladies and gentlemen, have you done everything you can to create additional jobs and to support job seekers optimally? – No, unfortunately you did not, ladies and gentlemen – and this assessment is if you really take it seriously, across all political camps! Mr Muchich – now he's not here – we don't say it's all bad, but you're just taking too little steps! At this pace, you steal time from us. They steal time from our country on an important path, and unfortunately this budget you are presenting here is essentially one of the missed opportunities again.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e28312	The next item is the speech by Mr Huainigg. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e28334	Madam President. Minister! The Federal Disability Equality Act is ten years old, we decided here ten years ago, and it has put a lot of things in the right direction in terms of accessibility. There are many transport services, authorities, offices and also businesses that have become accessible, and they also support the campaign of the Social Ministry for Accessibility and the information campaign of the Austrian Chamber of Commerce. I think it's time to wake up and say to those who still sleep: That's our goal, this is a long time! But I think we're on a good path here. A challenge for the next year will also be – and this is an important concern, also from me and from many people with disabilities – that you improve and debureautize the provision of aid, because those affected still have to walk from one cost carrier to the next and get one rejection after another. It needs a central point of contact, a one-desk principle, where, if you need resources, you submit your request, and this point then clears the financing with all possible cost carriers. This will be faster, and it will also lead to more success, as it will be easier for cost providers to participate if others are already involved. Another concern when it comes to financing is the financing of personal assistance. Personal assistance at the workplace is available throughout the country, works well and also promotes the integration of disabled people in need of care at the workplace. In There are, however, different rules in the countries, and there is a need for uniform directives. I believe that the idea of a disability fund, as the countries call it, should be seriously examined. I think that this would be a good way – like the care fund – to ensure funding. Accessibility, self-determined life, equality: All of this is human dignity – human dignity, as it should be enshrined in the Constitution. Mr Minister, if you would like to join the Federal presidential election and then rule in the Hofburg: Forget Please do not speak this speech, and you as the chief constitutional guardian would also like to see the human dignity enshrined in the Constitution! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e28376	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e28397	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr Kickl, what is so difficult for me is to understand why you are always so contradictory in what you say. You say, on the one hand, that you do not want the refugees to come to us – this is a legitimate view that you can have – but, on the other hand, you are not satisfied with the fact that we pass through Austria towards Germany. You always say that you don't want Austrian refugees to take away the workplace – you can also believe and want it – if they get social benefits, you don't think that's okay. That means it's not going to go out again! [[Abg. Kickl: How about a refugee stop at all!]] Previously, your colleague Belakovich-Jenewein – which I also found very “lustious” – has, although you are generally opposed to providing apprenticeships for young refugees, regrets that only so few apprenticeships are used by them. So that's not going to happen again! [[Abg. Kickl: Because you don't understand!]] You're always contradictory about what you're saying. You can have an opinion, that's okay, but you have to choose one, because to represent both together, it doesn't somehow matter. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Because you don't understand!]] You are right that this is a challenge for the labour market, that is quite right. It is therefore such a great challenge because jobs are the best integration measure. You're right: This is a challenge you have to address! There are also approaches in the budget that go in the right direction, for example when it comes to introducing a voluntary year of integration. This is a measure that can help bring people into employment, so I think it is right. It is certainly not enough for this to be a measure, but it needs many other measures, because we want to bring people into permanent employment. The essential point is that we have to start with qualifications in two ways: With regard to: On the one hand, we need to see with those who come to Austria and bring qualifications that they can bring in these qualifications and this knowledge accordingly and we can benefit from these qualifications as well. On the other hand, with those who come to Austria and do not bring the appropriate qualifications because they do not have the necessary training, we must see that we allow them to acquire qualifications that we qualify them. We must start with the qualification measures as early as possible and then take advantage of this opportunity, because the essential point is that: Every euro that we do not invest now must be doubled or tripled later, because the consequent costs of permanent unemployment are much higher than what we are now investing. Mr Rosenkranz can confirm this: this is exactly the same thing in the field of education: Every euro we do not spend in the education sector we have to spend twice and triple due to the follow-up costs, because permanent unemployment costs much more than what we previously invest in education and the labour market. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Mr Rosenkranz says: Every euro we invest in education is useful!]] – “Sinful”, is clear anyway, but in this context it is also about meaningful investments. The fact is: We have to start – there are of course also criticism points from our side – earlier. It is true that every day we lose in the asylum process, because we do not put in place sensible qualification measures, such as German courses, or because we do not see which qualifications are at all available, will subsequently fall to the head. Mr Bundesminister, we NEOS believe that asylum seekers should be open to the labour market even during the asylum process after a waiting period of six months. If you do not do that already, Mr Minister, you will start training as early as possible! It is important that we invest in German courses, that we see what skills people bring, and that we qualify those who do not bring the appropriate qualifications, because every investment we make at the beginning comes much cheaper than the follow-up costs that we will have afterwards.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e28483	The next item is Mrs Lueger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e28504	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! One important area – also in your department, Mr. Minister – is consumer protection, in terms of which I will now take two points: on the one hand the VKI, the Association for Consumer Information, and on the other hand the issue of private bankruptcy. The VKI is important because we need the maintenance and development of consumer rights, because enforcement by the VKI is important and because consumer information and consumer education are essential aspects. I am very glad that it has succeeded in additionaling € 1 million to basic funding, in order to bring back the slightly stubbling VKI, with the knowledge that it will then also need a realignment. The CCI itself also benefits from the tax reform that we have decided on, namely from the maximum basis of social security contributions. The Chamber of Labour will also provide half of the chamber housing to the VKI. Unfortunately, the third contractual partner – the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Agriculture – left the VKI at the time. On sustainable financing, I would like to say that I am very glad that the Minister in the Committee has promised us that he will work to ensure that the VKI is financed by a percentage of the fines. From the spring of next year, there will be negotiations with the Minister of Justice on financing, with a ceiling of between one and four million. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] I really wish you all the best for these negotiations, Mr Minister, and I hope that the Minister of Justice will support them. The VKI itself conducts about ten procedures per year in accordance with the law against unfair competition. All procedures have been carried out positively, 90 percent in the sense of consumers. What are the priorities? – The priority areas are, for example, the contracts for 24-hour care, the loss of ownership in case of parking or the negative interest rates at consumer prices. In the case of accident insurance, there is often misleading advertising for the interest rate. And there is also the collection action on the payment fee, by which a large amount of payment was made by the bank for about 7 000 people. There is also the large collection campaign against MPC, the ship and real estate funds, in which many people have invested a lot of money. There are two collective complaints pending. One is now against the hypo in the Styria, and there is still the possibility of this to 15. In December, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the As regards the private bankruptcy, I would like to say that there is the commitment of the Minister of Justice that he will also speak with the Minister of Justice next spring in order to manage to reduce these ten percent barriers of entry and achieve a reduction in the duration of these seven years. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] A sentence in the direction of ÖVP: In connection with the private bankruptcy, I would ask you to cooperate in this reduction, because this should not be underestimated: A third of all private bankruptcys concern one-person companies, and if you want to promote entrepreneurial venture, we would also need your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e28571	Next, Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e28609	Madam President. Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Our guests at the visitor gallery and at home in front of the TV sets! In the first place, because Mr Obernosterer has just said, that is yesterday's Taferl: of course, because I would like to start today my speech with the thanks to the workers and the entrepreneurs who work for this successful country of Austria and who are probably unable to see it now. However, I would also like to start with yesterday's table, because its content is very much in line with the social report and the social aspect. On this table, we can see that most of the population loses enormous income through the work of this government. With a purchasing power loss of 14 percent for the workers, we fall behind and therefore cannot make important investments which are the most important transmission oil for the economy. As the budget debate is also under way at the same time with our neighbours in the German Bundestag, I would like to quote here what Federal Minister Wolfgang Schäuble said yesterday. He meant that in such difficult and unpredictable times, governments would be well advised to drive ahead. I emphasize: driving in the eye! But in our government we sometimes feel as if they are in the case of fog and against wind at 200 km/h and did not know where the target is. I think you should take an example of the German neighbours, especially because of the current successful figures that Germany has to show. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Because yesterday at this place the location was so beautifully spoken: Yeah, it's a great location, but the international rankings show that we're constantly losing, and that counts. We must measure ourselves by our competitors; that would, I believe, be very essential. This morning I looked at the repetition of the “Citizen’s Forum” and was excited because I noticed a liquefaction with the government. German Chancellor Faymann now adds 20 percent to the business refugees every two months, now he is already 40 percent, and then in four months he is in the realistic 80 percent. And Vice-chanc Mitterlehner has criticized the empowerment law of this Federal Government by saying that unless we do not accommodate people, they are much easier to control, as can be seen from the example of the airport, if one makes it orderly. So there is also an improvement in the situation to be expected. [[I should like to thank the honourable Member Peter Wurm and Belakovich-Jenewein.]] I would like to mention a number of the additions, Mr Minister, or the planned 30 000 asylum seekers who need to be integrated into the labour market: We are supposed to have a factor 5 per asylumant, because of the family integration, and that is the great unknown, which is too little taken into account. The labour market was also addressed where 400,000 unemployed are faced with 36 000 job vacancies. In this context, I would like to add the following to the Social Report: There are still a million workers who are in employment at risk of poverty, especially families with one or two children, because they have, of course, much higher expenditure. I mean, you should finally pay more attention to that. I will report to the family report or to the family chapter. The €11 billion in grant to pensions has also been mentioned. Mr Minister, instead of this grant, we could finally address the promised reforms, for example, the merger of social security funds, where there is a huge potential. I should like to mention the President-in-Office of the Court of Auditors, Moser, who has highlighted this very much. Here's also an example: We have the same costs for 300 000 officials in the grant to pensions as for 2.2 million ASVG-pensionists. There is clearly no social balance. I'm allowed to prove this with the current pension level. Thankfully, the Minister has already pointed out today the collapse of agriculture, which is being sacrificed at the altar of globalisation, and I regret to say: In agriculture, the average pension amount is € 780 per month – I will work out this once again in the Green Report and in the Agriculture chapter – and for the ASVG insured, the monthly average pension is €1 270 and for officials – without ministerial councils and leading officials – this is €2 950. This is finally to be discussed – and not since 1780 and up to 2100! This does not fit in, we must finally bring it together on a fair level. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] .. Very briefly – Mrs Aubauer said thankfully –: If the post pays success premiums of up to 50 salaries, if someone aged 50 or 52 is retired, this does not correspond to the current situation. I too know colleagues who would like to continue but who are being pushed out of the labour market. That's exactly where it's supposed to be. Thankfully, Mrs Lueger has devoted a large part of her speech to consumer protection. There is a need for action there. This also has to do indirectly with the current refugee debate. Finally, we come to the bottom of the truth: It is always avoided talking about economic refugees, because one has to admit that with our greedy corporate and profit-oriented policy, we are primarily responsible for the fact that people in their countries of origin no longer have a basis of living. I'm still coming at the greening today. To talk about this with a very impressive picture, however, would now like to show how consumers are deceived in connection with the VKI. Here again I show the “famous” substitute butter from palm oil from the rainforest. [[Keep a pack with the label ‘Phase Professional ‘Like Butter’’]] This destroys the existence of economic refugees, which destroys the future and production of domestic agriculture, the health of consumers, the environment and the climate. I cannot understand that, as Mrs Lueger mentioned, exactly the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Agriculture have resigned as members of the VKI. They should have the greatest interest in ensuring that a fair, proper food labelling takes place in the food market, because we can only look at our most important partner, the consumer. That is why I ask you, Minister of Health, and also the Minister of Health, Oberhauser, to support the creation of the necessary quality seal law at last. Then the VKI can test even better. It also belongs to a share of penances, because it does clean work and has success, so it should also be able to participate in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e28712	The next speaker was Mrs Fichtinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e28734	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear listeners and listeners at the gallery! High house! I too would like to focus briefly on consumer protection. In terms of consumer protection, Austria is a pioneer not only at European level but also globally. Due to the constant effort of many involved persons working in the ministries and offices, it is always possible to minimize certain dangers, to discuss challenges constructively and to resolve a solution, to resolve also disputes and to draw lessons from them over and over again. I would like to thank all those involved for this opportunity once again and again for the success of constructive discussions – at the end of the day, all of us are concerned with consumer protection. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] In budgetary terms, this is a relatively small item in the consumer protection sub-group compared to all other points. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: What does that tell you, Mrs. Colleague?]] Mr Wurm, you will be right there and you can say something about it. [[Abg. New builder: Will he be!]] – It is therefore all the more important, efficient and budget-efficient to work to achieve the best results. Mr. Federal Minister, I am very much with you when you say that information to consumers should be improved more and more. We are all called upon to go ahead as a good example and to make available the necessary information to the public. Wrong and annoying information is an occasion for 30 percent of consumers to complain about a particular product. At this point, for example, food labelling should also be mentioned – Mr Steinbichler mentioned this earlier – and that improvements are certainly still possible and necessary. Nevertheless, it is important to continue this good path and to pass on good information to people. Of course, there are great challenges over and over again, and for all of us it is important to deal with them and to keep the discourse. Contact point for many who are looking for information – Mr Lueger has already mentioned it – is the Consumer Information Association, where people receive assistance in the form of consultations and legal assistance. This also contains a lot of optimization potential. Ladies and gentlemen! Overall, the budget presented by Minister Schelling, as a whole, is a challenge for all of us. Labour market stabilisation, pension security, reduction of additional labour costs, red tape: These are keywords that mean major reforms – reforms that are necessary to keep our beautiful country worth living. I think we should all be ready to work for it and make a contribution to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e28790	Next, Mr Neubauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e28811	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Federal Minister Hundstorfer said in Replica that if I listen to you, I would be almost as if we were living in another country. Mr Federal Minister, if you were to listen, people in Austria would think that they are living in another country. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is explained every day that we are such a rich country, so I hold the budget for you today. We have a public debt of 87 percent, and we have a per capita debt higher than the per capita debt in Greece. These are the true and realistic figures that we need to deal with here. We also have to deal with the fact that we have the highest level of unemployment since 1945 and also the highest inadvisability of a federal government to meet this unemployment. We also have the highest long-term unemployment, and we also have an incredible frustration in the population that is spreading. This also causes the fear that more and more people will fall into the poverty trap, which also – as an expression of the “reichtum” of Austria – will be booming more and more social markets. – That is what we do not want as a liberal, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Why is that so? – Because more and more – and you have said that yourself, Federal Minister – foreigners are pushing our labour market. They have spoken of a maximum of 5 000 who come; now it is more than 30 000 to 40 000 who are forced on our labour market, that is, a multiple of what you have predicted with your forecasts. This brings about increased wage dumping because these people often work much cheaper than what is foreseen in Austria with contracts. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Listen to me.]] This, in turn, pays much less money to the system of sanctions, and this is still supported by institutions such as banks, such as the ORF or by actions such as those at the end of the post, which sends people at the age of 50+ with a golden handshake to the early board, ladies and gentlemen! If you say that there is nothing you can do, this shows the inadvisability of this federal government. – Of course you could have done something about it for a long time! Wherever the Republic is majority-owned, the Minister of Finance has long had the opportunity to finally stop this indifference and this inhumanity to people of the age of 50+, only he has not done so to this day. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We call on him from this point of view to finally act here in order to finally end this dispassion. It is not clear that today someone with 55 years of age is sent to early retirement with three annual salaries – that is, ten years before the statutory retirement age – and then exactly those Members on my right, namely those of the ÖVP, request a pension automatic. – Yes, what would that mean? How should we ever be able to get these ten years with a pension automatic? Then people would have to work two or three years longer for those who would be sent to the pension with a golden handshake! – Please, it can no longer be in Austria in the future, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The loads are continued: Under the argument to revive the labour market, a bonus malus system is introduced. On the one hand, the economy is occupied by the bonus, and on the other hand, families are burdened by the fact that payments for the bonus are, of course, taken through the family compensation fund. He is already burdened with over €3 billion himself. How far is that supposed to go? At €4 billion, €5 billion, for which is the Republic good to stand? On the other hand, Malus is burdening the economy. – Well, the economists will be happy about this – and will not recruit any additional staff. This is actually a logical conclusion. Or the old socialist hat, now suddenly with a value added tax – an idea that was no longer up-to-date 30 years ago – to revive the economy. Yes, please, ladies and gentlemen, there can be no such thing! We want to: We want the government to finally take action to bring about a harmonisation in accordance with ASVG in all the federal states and wherever it is necessary – and to speak with Mr Häupl once a serious word, why he has not done so until today in Vienna, at the expense of all other people living in Austria. Of course I can't. We also want a reduction in the number of social security institutions from currently 21 to 2. One would – see Bavaria! – we need a second one for foreigners, so that we finally know what we are talking about when foreigners want to have access to the Austrian social pot. To pensioners, ladies and gentlemen: Well, 1.2 percent, that's inflation. – You know our position on this. We are actually those who vote for a pensioner's contribution to the pension, but if the pot is no longer in it, then we will no longer demand. One thing, however, is actually to say: If there is a great tax reform here that promises that pensioners will get more and that they will suddenly receive the €110 for the negative tax, then you have to say quite clearly one thing: Who pays the pensioners, who are the compensaters, this € 110? They have been excluded from this tax reform by you as the most socially weak in this country. While politicians here in this hall are allowed €8500 salary €2 500 – €2 500, Mr. Minister! – the pensioners, if they are compensation payers, do not even get the 110 € negative tax. Shame! Of course, we liberals will not agree to this budget in this form.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e28908	Next, Mr Wimmer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e28929	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In fact, we always find the same scheme with the members of the Freedom Party: They divide society and divide the groups of people. [[Abg. Neubauer: You just got that...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schimanek.]] My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen, this is actually objectionable, because you do not offer solutions, you divide people apart, Mr. Neubauer. [[Abg. New builder:... at the salary negotiations!]] [[Abg. Schimanek: The truth is reasonable, almost everyone!]] My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen, of course we have a problem on the labour market, which is not disputable. It would be necessary for us to make a close of our shoulders and to be able to get closer to this issue together, precisely on this issue, which concerns so many people. But from the opposition there is not really any solution proposals, ladies and gentlemen, so I am grateful that our Federal Minister offers these approaches. [[Abg. Schimanek: Well, then listen to me! There are yes... applications in committee!]] People over 50 years of age have a very big problem. As we know, this group is deeply affected by unemployment, so it is important that we create new initiatives with the 50+ employment initiative, for which up to €250 million are available in this budget. Thank you, Minister of State! This is a far-sighted policy, and you just feel that your social-political heart is particularly important to you. The labour market, ladies and gentlemen, is of course directly linked to the economy, economic growth and purchasing power, and in this context wage negotiations are very necessary. And, Mr Neubauer, because you so small in the speech made by Mr Muchitsch that we as a trade unionist are only here in wage negotiations. - Yes! This is very important because people need wage increases. Even if there are not huge increases, but the 1.5 percent that trade workers have received, the 1.5 percent that metal workers and workers have received, and the 1.3 percent that the public service has received, are very important, because these are money that goes directly into consumption and which we need quite urgently for the economy. [[Abg. New builder: Now you've got another year of nothing in front of you!]] Two more rates on wage tax reform, ladies and gentlemen – by the way, you voted against it, perhaps [[towards FPÖ]] You're still commenting on this today. The wage tax reform will be the greatest relief for workers and especially for pensioners. Make You're not bad at this wage tax reform! 5 billion € are available, ladies and gentlemen, and the people will actually feel that. [[Abg. New builder: We pay them ourselves!]] An example: With an income of € 2 000 to € 2 500 gross, people will pay about € 1 000 less pay tax per year. [[Abg. Honey: Where's the median income?]] [[Abg. Neubauer: What is the median income?]] I would therefore like to conclude by saying: The 2016 budget is a good budget! Above all, it is a good budget for workers, especially pensioners, and we are proud of it. [[Abg. Honey: More than half of the income...!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e29084	Now comes Mrs Mag. I'm talking about Jarmer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e29105	Mr President. High house! Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen and spectators at home in front of the screens! Budgetary planning: Let me briefly explain the situation of people with disabilities in Austria. People with disabilities are not very, very good in Austria. There are, of course, measures and promotions on how to make life a little more beautiful for people, and I would like to pick out a few points that I would like to explain to you in connection with the budget. The budget is provided by various pots, in order to finally create accessibility in jobs with this money, to enable people to work freely. Among other things, money also flows to companies to make working for disabled workers better and easier. But the budget for this is getting less and less. This budget fell from € 56.1 million in 2014 to € 48.2 million in 2015. In 2016 we are at €39.2 million, and it is getting less and less. The amounts are reduced by €9.0 and €8 million respectively. We're talking about 18.7 percent less money here. What are the consequences for people with disabilities in the labour market? Is that the measure? To the labour market: Women, particularly disabled women, are particularly affected by unemployment. I have seen in the 2016 budget plan, when I read it, that the impact targets are already set in percentages, and I have also read out one for 2016: You know, you see the number of people with disabilities, you see the number of people with disabilities, you take out the number of people who are affected, and you compare men and women. The fact is that, for next year, the percentage of favoured disabled women is less taken into account, by 1 percent. This means that the goal of taking women more into account – a very ambitious goal – has decreased for the next year. In 2016, however, €50 000 is reserved for a study to investigate the situation of disadvantaged women with disabilities. Are there any specific plans? What objectives are there set and met for these women, for this target group? Is there something there? Are there campaigns, measures, support? What's going on? - I don't see anything there! These people will be forgotten. You know, the life situation of people with disabilities is marked by barriers – in offices, in authorities, in health care, and, and, and,. From One cannot speak of an equal life. If a barrier is there, one feels affected, one can go to a so-called conciliation point and work out a conciliation procedure. There you can say, for example: I will be discriminated against in the labour market! And, and, and so. – Then both parties will be put to a table, and it will be simpled and negotiated, and then there will be a result that will be documented. Of course, it is the goal of creating awareness among all possible groups of persons. The fact is that the 40 percent target in 2014 could not be achieved. In 2015, the target was not achieved by 9 percent, and the figures speak for themselves that in 2016 the target is slightly lower and says: Well, we only want to reach 33 percent, that's our goal! – Apparently, the figures and the 2015 interim balance do not speak well. That means, what happens in ten years? The goal of action continues to go down and down! I would like to say one more thing: ==References== January 2016 all public buildings must be accessible. For this reason, a lower percentage than the so-called impact target for conciliation procedures is not realistic because there will be several conciliation procedures. The fact is that this law, which will come into force next year, has not yet been implemented everywhere. Papers also say that equality in all areas of life has not been achieved in the life situation of people with disabilities. We cannot talk about equality, says the budget service personally. Of course, I appreciate your employees, they do very good work, but one thing I would like to make clear again, Minister of State: The responsibility for complying with the National Action Plan in Austria – with regard to the quality of life of people with disabilities, including older people affected – lies with the Ministry of Social Affairs and the responsibility for creating awareness, with all people who are not included, but who live with people in a society. The budget shows a decline, not a forward trend, but a backward trend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e29176	The next item is the speech by Mr Obernoster. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e29210	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen in the gallery and at home in front of the TV screens! If you listen to the discussion like this, there seems to be only black or white, that is, either it's bad or it's all great. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein:... Power of the middle!]] I think the truth is somewhere in the middle. [[Abg. Peter Worm: Ha!]] I think we Austrians do not need to hide internationally, no matter in any area. Let us be proud that we are Austrians! But that also means that much has to be done to keep it going, and the government has done so too. We know that we have reached the border from the burden and from the bureaucracy, and we have actually made every move to relieve and debureautize in the future. [[Abg. Peter Worm: Register case!]] Only a few points: the tax reform – over €5 billion in income and wage taxation, in terms of employees and employers. We know how much €5 billion is, and every single one is broken down, on average, that's about €1,000 a year. The additional wage reduction package, which was recently decided at the labour market summit – up to € 1 billion in the year – of course also relieves the economy and benefits the labour market. Debureaucratisation has been launched. The focus should be on setting aside what is no longer needed, and on second, not to punish immediately, but to advise first and only to punish further. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: Allergenordnung! Allergensordnung!]] [[Abg. Peter Worm: Smoking Prohibition!]] What is very dear to me is a clear regulation regarding the voluntary cooperation of the closest family members in the family association in the small-scale economy, for example in the gastronomy. The issue has already been dealt with in the committees for the xth time. There is almost unanimity among Members across all political groups. I hope that we can end this as soon as possible in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. In the meantime, however, there has already been a leaflet, concluded between the social partners and the Ministry of Social Affairs, so that family members have legal certainty, if they are in retirement or in the labour market or the children are in training and temporarily in the family business. We have to put this in legal form, and I hope that we will close it soon. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e29312	Next speaker: Mr Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e29333	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Estimated Secretary of State! Mr Minister, you mentioned earlier in your opinion that the general decline in insolvency in enterprises is a good measure and shows that the economy is not so bad at all. But if I evaluate the degree knife and see that every fifth company decommissions employees, I have to say: This is a bad degree knife, and I think that should also be a worrying measure for you. I also think that at the so-called labour market summit the wrong signs were set, in that it was not a summit at all; it was more similar to a breakfast to six. I'll give you a little example of what you've done. Because Gabriel Obernosterer spoke of debureaucratisation, I would like to consider the bonus malus system for older employees and consider it more precisely. What happens in our industry? – These older employees will be released just before the deadline, including with the history of the higher exemption levy, in so far as it is called a disbursement levy. This is precisely counterproductive because we do not create one thing: that we reduce the wage curve especially for older employees. This is a springing point, that would have to be done to make it work, so it's your problem too. Mr. Obernosterer, you're talking about debureaucratisation. All those establishments – and this is especially in the West and in our area, in the tourist segment, dramatic – which will probably find very few older employees in the tourist valleys, i.e. the demand to employ older employees – cannot meet the demand – bonus malus system – then have a mandatory advice of the Forced Office. – That’s completely absurd! In addition, the employment model seems to be already working at the Chamber of Commerce: that the more employees build up that they get a mandatory advice from the Forced Office. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] I think that's absurd, and that's not how it goes. And it's unbelievable when you stand here and talk about debureaucratisation. Next example: All-in contracts. – This was done by Mr Wimmer, I think, yesterday very well illuminated. Where's the whole thing going? You know very well that contracts are concluded early, especially for winter tourism-extensive farms. Yes, at leadership positions, all-in contracts were concluded. This was obviously won through yesterday in the Council of Ministers, which is the result of all these entrepreneurs being able to adapt to juicy penalties with your consent, because all all all all-in contracts apply immediately, from winter onwards. That means they can't be reprocessed anymore. This can be a worrying attitude of an entrepreneurship party, as you position yourself. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Obernosterer.]] In this respect, I would like to raise another point – and I must also give back cover to Minister Hundstorfer – that is, how important it is, especially in the integrative field, for all asylum seekers or those who have the status to receive immediately appropriate training at the AMS in the competence centres. That's why the AMS needs a lot more money for it. Integration is facilitated by work and thus access to the labour market needs to be facilitated. This should also be promoted, but it must also be promoted that with regard to all those with much better linguistic training and those who do not yet have language training, it is possible to find out what skills they have so that they do not end up in long-term unemployment. This is particularly important, and in this respect I would like to try to give rise to this, with the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e29422	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Schellhorn is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e29488	Next speaker: Mr Keck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e29509	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Neubauer has said several times today that the trade unions only showed up once a year at wage negotiations and that is nothing. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that precisely these collective treaty negotiations, precisely the results of these collective treaty negotiations, revive the Austrian economy, because the money that is being negotiated there is once again marching into the economy – and precisely this money saves jobs or creates jobs. I think the work of the union is a good work, and to put it here, as if it were nothing, is, I think, really to reject it deeply. [[Abg. Kickl:... at Taferl g’habt!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Contrary to all the comments, the labour market budget will not be reduced, because labour market support is excluded from the counter-financing measures for tax reform, and even 250 million € can be used from the passive resources for active labour market policies; 150 million of them are for persons from 50 onwards. Year of life – only €120 million so far – and €100 million for long-term unemployed. The additional funds decided for Group 50+ are flexibly flexibilised in such a way that, above all, people with reduced health status over 50 years of age and under 50 years of age can benefit from them at an early stage and also long-term unemployed under 50 years of age. As in the past, 60 percent of the funds will be available for integration and combined wages and 40 percent for employment in social enterprises. Now a few words about the pensions, ladies and gentlemen: Obviously, once again we try to change political change with fear and imagination, because if you look at our budget, you can find: With this estimate, we are approximately €350 million below the ceiling of the Federal Financial Framework from 2016 to 2019. The budget is therefore not only respected, but it is even lowered in this area. The measures taken by Federal Minister Hundstorfer show their effect: In 2015, expenditure will be €300 million lower than budgeted, and in 2016 the financial framework will be reduced by €350 million. Ladies and gentlemen, these figures speak for themselves and show the excellent work of our Minister for Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e29551	Next speaker: Mr Peter Wurm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e29575	Mr President. Minister! High house! Values Watcher in front of the screens! Before I come to the issue of consumer protection, I would like to make a very important motion for a resolution on the best bidder principle. I do not understand, Minister, why you are delaying this important best bidder principle by an incompetent economic councillor in Tyrol and an uninformed head of state in cooperation with an uninformed President of the Chamber of Economics, because the workers, but also the SMEs in Austria, are waiting. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A short replica to the union: The existing real wage losses of the workers are already responsible for the trade union, and this should also be communicated to its members quite openly. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Let's go to consumer protection: Minister, I think you will probably have forgotten, but you are also Minister for Consumer Protection – what a surprise! I call you a date, the 27th. ==References== What was it? . I don't know if you know it, that was the last time you showed up in committee as a responsible consumer protection minister. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Listen to me.]] 27. May 2014 – that is, for a year and a half, you are no longer a member of the committee as a minister. [[Abg. Loacker:... nothing fails!]] Mr Minister, I have already said that you have clearly demonstrated your inability in this area, in our view, very important area of consumer protection. Mrs Lueger said it briefly. But I do not know what the performance of your ministry and your person in consumer protection is in. You can see it on the basis of the budget: We are talking about €3 million of consumer protection budget here. I just figured it out: That's 0.03 per mill of the total budget. One thing is clear: Where the money is, the music plays as we say. That is, if the consumer protection budget is worth €3 million, then it is about the importance of consumer protection. [[Abg. Loacker:... Chamber of Workers... billions...!]] Mrs Lueger, you as the competent consumer protection spokesperson at SPÖ should actually make this sick. The most important thing, Mr Minister, that would have been necessary in the budget, namely that you would benefit from the criminal payments of the Federal Competition Authority to the VKI – your idea was, I believe, 25 percent of those penalties – you did not achieve that again. This is one of many points you have announced, but you have not reached, Mr Minister. That is, these penalty payments do not benefit the VKI, and the VKI is in reality the Minister of Consumer Protection. You do not carry out your tasks, the VKI as an outsourced association is actually consumer protection in Austria, and I believe that is the wrong approach. We have a Minister for Consumer Protection, you should carry out this task, and if you cannot and do not want to, then you should financially equip the VKI so that it is also mobile and active. He's not. When you talk to the VKI leadership team – I did it – you know the problems that the VKI has; and the VKI is getting more and more powerless; I want to hold on to that. It is, in general, as follows: Mr. Minister Hundstorfer is never responsible, he can never do anything. 25 Requests, we have made requests, and the answer has always been the same: if he doesn't, he doesn't know, he can't do anything. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Listen to me.]] In other words, a minister who is never responsible is sitting here and representing consumer protection. An exception has been made this year in 2015: They have carried out a quarter of a million Euro consumer protection information for migrants. Austria, a roadshow, from the 3-million-€ budget, a quarter of a million for consumer protection training for migrants – every Austrian can only laugh. 2016 You don't do that anymore. By the way, Minister: A home page is not yet an active consumer protection policy. In fact, social democracy, your foremen and foremen would have to turn around in the grave, because consumer protection was once a central social, social-democratic concern. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lueger]] That's what you've passed for a long time. Total: If something comes up on consumer protection, it comes from Brussels: Food information regulation, food labelling – all EU regulations, which are not the focus of the consumer, but the interests of the lobbys, the large companies, and that is what you will sell us as consumer protection. Very short, negative balance dog torfer: Overdraft interest on the giro accounts, an old theme, unfair margins for the banks – they don't do anything; to this end: EU deposit guarantee, that is, the state liability for deposits up to €100 000 is lost – you don't do anything, you don't react at all, you could almost be described as bank lobbyists; Limits on rent and housing cost reduction – no activity on your part; Private bankruptcy – already mentioned today –: 95 percent of people in Austria who have financial problems do not want to complete the private bankruptcy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker]] We know all this, you should realize sometime, Minister, that you have to help because people stay in the poverty spiral and it does not help anyone – even here no concrete action, zero, nothing happens. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Listen to me.]] Inflation, Stopping of Fees: For this we have made countless applications – all rejected, nothing happens; in Austria this is galloping. Kilometres Increased, Pendler Payroll: What was done for the drivers? - Nothing! Mrs. Lueger, if you know anything specific, you can tell me afterwards; I have been watching over the last two years: It happened exactly zero in the area. [[New call of the abg. Listen to me.]] Then another interesting story: Smart meter, a theme that applies to all Austrians. – The Minister of Consumer Protection does nothing; but it is a 25-billion-€ business for some companies in Europe. The Minister for Consumer Protection supports this, no protection of data security, so no response on your part. Very, very important: TTIP and CETA. There is nothing going on at all, there is no budget for consumer protection; there is no response at all. Genlachs, genera – everything that concerns consumers in Austria. A uniform consumer protection right – also pushed to the long-term bank – has been pushed to the long-term bank. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lueger]] I am already at the end of the speech. Unfortunately, my speaking time is running out; there is still a lot to be done. [[Abg. Loacker: Thank God!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] – Yes, thank God – because there are no concrete measures in consumer protection, nothing happens to consumers in Austria, nothing at all; and the objective and subjective feeling of consumers is that they have fewer and less rights in this international competition. Consumers stay on the track. I say it again: What is a functioning consumer protection, where can it work? – Only where there is fair competition and enough providers – and unfortunately we have God’s rarer and rarer. In conclusion: Mr. Minister, you're on your way to Hofburg. I have to say that if you can make it to Hofburg, I am getting a little sluggish, because if you use the same activity for the Austrians as the Federal President as the Minister for Consumer Protection, then there is little to expect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e29735	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Worm is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e29968	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Hammer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e29989	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Wurm, you have obviously, as in the Committee, still put in the same tape. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ and NEOS.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] On one point, I would like to expressly protect the Federal Minister. You have already mentioned to the Committee several times that a meeting of the Consumer Protection Committee will be convened. Please contact Mr Steinbichler, who always spits great tones here, but is unable to coordinate such a committee! The problem lies there. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Steinbichler: such a fool!]] But we are discussing the social budget here. I believe that the social budget, as it stands, can be described as good. Even in economically difficult times, sufficient resources are available to help exactly where people need support very directly, so that, in many areas – whether the labour market is now, pensions, especially in the area of care and people with disabilities, are important measures. A lot has already been said about the social budget. I would like to pay more attention to the subject of care. There we are basically good on the road. It is also appropriate to ensure that we meet the challenges there. What is a major challenge, however, is that we can provide sustainable financial support and finance in the future as well as use sufficient staff. In the Federal budget itself, which has already been mentioned, €2.76 billion is available for the field of care, which is a very significant part, because countries and communities also spend a large part of their care. The funds are mainly distributed to € 350 million for the care fund, € 2.3 billion for care and care care care, € 80.2 million for 24-hour care and € 12 million for the support fund for caregivers. I would like to refer specifically to the care fund, which is, in principle, a very useful institution and ensures the financing of care, especially the financial burden of the countries and municipalities. However, I already believe that in the next few years, we should deal intensively with the topic of care financing in order to establish a sustainable care-financing system. The care fund is a good establishment; we should talk about how to teach it and how to establish a sustainable care financing system. That is what we are calling for. To sum up, this is a good social budget, which we of course can agree with.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e30047	Mr Steinbichler spoke on an actual correction. You are aware of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure: Please repeat the subject to be corrected first, then apply your comments. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e30084	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Hammer claimed that I would not be able to coordinate an appointment for the Committee because of an emergency. This refers to my predecessor, Mrs Dietrich. Five dates have been proposed and the first possible coordination takes place on 3 March. December – thanks to Minister Hundstorfer – took place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e30109	Now comes Mrs Mag. Aslan to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e30130	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators in front of the screens at home! Mr. Worm, somehow you have to be aware of something: On the one hand, you want to stand for all consumers, on the other hand you make a separation between migrants and consumers. [[Abg. Pe- ter Worm: The minister did this!]] You'll have to find the middle where you're really... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] - They're not credible. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But this separatism, which always comes on every level, is simply despicable. Now I want to come to the fundamental issue. In 2014, the VKI published 115 tests, market surveys and reports. Over 4,500 free initial consultations and 3,500 specialist consultations were carried out. There were also around 200 legal proceedings. The website consumptionent.at was visited last year by three million people. That is where we see the importance of strong consumer protection for our citizens. The Ministry supports the VKI annually with €1.5 million. Another financial contribution comes from the Chamber of Labour. This is precisely because the contribution has been shortened, many VKI employees have gone to the streets to protest against the continuing saving course. The protest has also been effective. This means that the Ministry is trying – at least until December 2016 – to continue funding the VKI so that it can continue its work. But what happens after that, it's still open. A short-term budgetary policy of the Federal Government towards the CCI simply cannot be a sustainable solution in the long term. This is nothing but to keep the VKI on the leash and simply to weaken the VKI strategically. Although the current short-term financing sounds very good, the VKI has been starving financially for years. The test facilities are outdated and the list of tests not carried out is becoming longer and longer. I also see another problem with the VKI, namely the problem of independence. This showed up very well at the VW scandal. On the one hand, we have seen the interests of workers on the one hand, and on the other hand it has been the interests of consumers. There one felt very well how much the VKI then had pressure from his money provider, says: from the Chamber of Workers. It can't be! It may not be that in similar cases, the VKI is almost in danger of its independence. The current mixing of these interests cannot make the VKI credible even in its interests. Above all, I must remind you again and again of the proposal from the Government Convention, where you are trying to devote fines from cartel proceedings to the CCI. This could not be set up by law so far. This already agreed commitment of fines from cartels needs to be speeded up. Independent budget planning and long-term sustainable positioning of the VKI therefore seems impossible in the future. That is why I again call on the government parties to seek a financially sustainable solution to independent consumer protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e30179	Now comes Mr. Ing. Vogl to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e30200	Mr President. Mr. Minister! I would like to deal with UG 22, which is the area that covers pensions. However, if you want to cover the whole subject of pensions, you should probably take into account the area of civil servants' pensions, the UG 23, which we will discuss tomorrow. We have planned expenditures of almost €11 billion for 2016. This is about €0.75 billion compared to the year 2014, where for the last time figures are available, more than €0.75 billion. Let's take UG 23's official pensions to make up €7.1 billion in grants, and we're about €18 billion we need in grants in our pension system. Official pensions are higher than in 2014 by €0.45 billion. If we look at the actual trend in this year, then we see that in the UG 22 the rise of January to September was only 1.4 percent and expenditure remained the same in the UG 23. This has led to the fact that in 2016, we have already revised the payout limit by €350 million down. In its analysis, the Budget Service points out: ‘The measures already implemented to increase the actual retirement age are expected to work better than originally adopted.’ However, where I am concerned, if we already need 10 percent of the funds we have allocated here, we need to do so in order to provide compensation compensation for those involved. 10 percent of the funds are: Much more than probably about a quarter of those involved are already dependent on the fact that their own pension is covered by a compensatory allowance. If we are now considering that the forecast for 2016 has been corrected down, this has not happened for the years 2017, 2018 and 2019. There a significantly higher increase in pension expenditure is reported as GDP grows. This brings us back to the discussion, which comes back at the same time every year, about the financing of our pension system. That is why we should perhaps take a short look at the figures again. The number of old-age pensions increased from 28,890 to 30,457 in 2014, the year the last figures are available. Early retirement pensions after long insurance periods, the hackler scheme has fallen from 5 586 accesses to 4 299. The long-term insurance scheme has fallen from 25 554 to 17 547. And the corridor board has slightly increased from 5 832 to 6 267. Who doesn't know what's behind these numbers? That means quite simply, we have made a lot of pension reforms, where people today do not know exactly what that means. The fact is, people go to retirement later. Maybe the figures once again: The pension insurance institution transfers funds of €31.4 billion, of which the grant is €5.7 billion. The insurance of the railways: €0.8 billion in payments, €0.35 billion in state aid. Social security in the industrial sector: € 3.3 billion in payouts, € 1.7 billion in grant. The farmers' social insurance institution: 2 billion € the payouts, 1.6 billion € is the grant. In the UG 23 9 billion € the payouts, 6.7 billion € is the grant. Mr Wöginger, that is why: Where does the redistribution not work?
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e30258	Next speaker: Mrs Gamon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e30280	Mr President. Mr. Minister! The pensions are safe! – This is heard relatively often, even in recent times again, in various SPÖ broadcasts and their associated organizations. This is based on this snapshot of the budget, which may not look so bad right now. As Mr Vogl has already said, the budget has said: Yeah, yeah. . But he also said that this was not going to happen in the long term and that a few basic reforms might not be bad. By 2019 alone, expenditure will increase by 20 percent in the overall budget. The Minister has now said that he can calm down because he has his own opinion. It's only that far in 2020. - Nice! A year later. But what do we have about it? Is that really soothing for anyone? I don't think so. The expenditure in this area is simply galloping on us. This takes us the space to make meaningful investments. We're here now in a budget debate. In many areas that really concern the future, education, science and so on, it is that the money is not enough at the front and the back, but we have it with pensions. Clearly, we do not have enough suffering pressure to really change something fundamentally. But I would also like to use the opportunity to comment on some of your statements. Mr. Minister, you said: “The system is crisis-proof, the system can be financed.” – This may be true if you think of an ever-bearing money tree that you can shake when there is a hole somewhere. Then you also said: “A certain part is a state grant,” it was just made out. – But it seems to you that this “sure part” is completely variable and can simply go along with the rising expenditure, while everything else stagnates and we have no money in front and back. You have also said that for many reasons. – Let’s talk about these reasons! Let's talk about why the system was built in this way and why it no longer works these days! Because we have more and more people who go into retirement and less and less who pay into the system. That doesn't count anymore. That's a system error. Then you said that the studies were wrong and that they claimed something else. – Well, the OECD, the Monetary Fund and the European Commission are probably wrong. If you stand alone now and see that only the ÖGB and the Chamber of Workers support your own arguments, perhaps you should consider whether it would not be time to throw a little bit of your own opinion. In addition, you have said that we use the same figures as the Ministry of Finance. – Tomorrow we will decide a federal grant of €11 billion, and the day after tomorrow it will be said that it is €240 million less, but in the same calendar year. This is not particularly trusting. [[Abg. Schwentner: What exactly do you want?]] Then let's get to what you could do to change that. There is a need for a fundamental reform that is geared towards how old people are becoming real today and what they have paid for in this system. I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would also like to say, in particular, that pension automation alone is not enough. We really need a fundamental reform, which also takes account of demographics and takes into account how many people there are who are enrolling in the system, how the health system develops and so on. It must be a system that also adapts to the circumstances and to reality and is not just that, because it has always been that way and anyone has invented it that way. That is why I would like to conclude by saying: What is left behind by this government is that, as a next generation, as a boy, we need to do this later in the future. There you can only say: The pensions are not safe. But what's going to be safe for us boys is the debt.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e30340	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Gamon is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e30411	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Hofinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e30432	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Gamon, I am glad to hear you lean on our ideas. It is, of course, such a thing with the automatic retirement system. Our health system is in itself very well positioned worldwide. I think we can really be proud of it. However, I would also like to make my speech in the direction of Pen- sion reform. sion The Federal Minister said it himself yesterday, the life expectancy is 81 years. The time in the pension increases. Because of our good food we live longer and longer. That's nice. But of course it turns out here that we have exploding costs. I think with 11.2 billion € grant to the ASVG sanctions, the situation is really dramatic. We have to take consequences. This is alarming, especially the population no longer sees it. We really owe it to the future generation. I think we could, with some automation in pension insurance, especially our younger generation, provide a guarantee for a further functioning pension system. I do not understand that, quite honestly, our coalition partner, if he is always flexibly blocking, with which we have already had consensus. I think this problem is relatively simple to explain. It is also so in every small community that, if the cost coverage is no longer there, whether it is in the canal or waste area, there are two ways to solve it: Either one waits and then increases painfully high under major grumbles of the population. Or the second option would be to act immediately and have a moderate increase every year. I and the population would really prefer the second thing. That is why I also appeal to you, Federal Minister, that we really bring together a good cast for our young generation for February in the pension reform. It is already remarkable when every seven euros of our tax revenue is used for these pension payments. I think we owe it to the people to step in here and make our pension system future fit for our grandchildren. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e30474	Next speaker: Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e30496	Mr President. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Muchich – yes, you are in the hall – you said to Mr Kickl that it is not quite right that everything should always be mixed, that refugees, asylumists and the like. I'm asking you: Do you think that our labour market is bearing even more asylum seekers? – I don't think so, ladies and gentlemen! I think the measure is full. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I'm coming back to consumer protection. The budget is estimated at around €3.11 million, about €2.25 million as a transfer effort, for example for the VKI, for debtor advice, and so on. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I believe that this is very, very important and that consumers need protection, especially older people. They need protection from curly machinations, from dubious companies and fraud. In recent times, fraud has become more common. In the first place is the so-called internet subscription, and I think it must be tried to help people in these cases. The honesty of the people is being shamelessly exploited, and I firmly reject it! Ladies and gentlemen! The consumer has a right to protection, and I also use this protection as a consumer when it comes to the so-called gene salmon. I reject this so-called gene salmon, because I believe that is the premise for the free trade agreement, and I do not want it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e30538	Next speaker: Mr Hell. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e30559	Mr President. Federal Minister! My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Hofinger, I think you were not present when the Federal Minister here explained how the Federal Government's subsidies to pension insurance looked, because it was clear that the lowest subsidies were for the ASVG-pensionists and that the subsidies for farmers and self-employed – the Minister also explained why – are relatively high. I believe that the biggest mistake in the whole debate on pensions is the claim that pensions are not sufficiently financed because there is also a federal contribution to this. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I should like to remind you once again of the basic principle of pension financing in Austria: The employees contribute to this, and the Austrian State also contributes to it. The Austrian pension system is well assured, which also shows the latest opinions, and especially in the long-term perspective there are positive effects. In recent years, numerous pension reforms have been adopted, and these reforms have had positive effects: The number of pension applications per year is growing over-planned. In the Committee, the Federal Minister also pointed out that the planned expenditure in this area had already been far lowered in this year. Ladies and gentlemen! Instead of uncertainty, we need measures to create employment and economic growth and to keep older people in employment longer. But we can get even better if we manage to set up measures for the 50plus group here. With the bonus malus system, an important step has also been taken here. Many jobs and fair wages mean more contribution payments. In the 2008 economic crisis, we have noticed how these developments have a negative impact on this system. Ladies and gentlemen! The implementation of the requirement to introduce the automatic increase in the retirement age does not lead to new jobs. If it fails to lift the actual retirement age, an automatic one is completely pointless. The pension system requires: high employment growth, adequate wages, economic growth, employment-oriented jobs and the willingness of the economy to employ older workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e30606	The next item is the speech by Mr Schmid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e30627	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! On the topic of social affairs: Our Republic is widely regarded as a social state. Contributions to the social system, such as health insurance, pensions and the like, are made by the service provider and the employee. In days like this, the social system is heavily burdened by a high and steadily increasing number of refugees without return. With increasing numbers of refugees, there is a large number of economic operators between actual refugees and a large number of refugees. The Commission's proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the protection of the health of workers. The Austrian social system must be interpreted in favour of the local population, contributors and pensioners as well as health requirements. The medical care of our population is comprehensive and complete. It cannot be that the existing medical care is reduced, as is the case in Salzburg, for example, where the nocturnal domestic medical care service was discontinued from 23 o'clock and therefore part of basic medical care was abolished. The proven and necessary medical service has been replaced by a telephone service. We invest our money in our proven social system in favour of our population, their health, care and pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e30666	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e30688	Mr President. Since I only have more than 2 minutes of speaking time, I just want to address a few things. Mr Wurm, I am pleased that you have released half the Austrian government, because if it goes according to the competences you assign to me, I represent the half government, we do not need the rest anymore. You know exactly how our constitution is built, and you also know exactly how our competences are built up, even if you do not want to take note of it, because your mesh is always the same; we will be on 3rd. ==References====External links== To the migrant project so that you can stick to the facts: In 2015, the expenditure was €14 940 and not €250 000, as you were mistakenly told here. To the VKI itself: The million is in the permanent right. We do not tremble every year so that we do not misunderstand, which continues to flow. And of course the functionality of the VKI is also an important factor for us in the future. On independence and VW: We're doing this a little different. We are currently negotiating a ban with the VW Group because this is the next stage to continue in this legal procedure at all. We don't sell this to the media big, but we do it. For two weeks, the lawyer responsible for this limitation has been taking care of by us. And you can imagine that this is not quite easy for the Group at the moment, because the Group has a global problem, and we are only part of the market. I would like to have said that. Coming to the end: Mrs Belakovich is not in the hall now, but because you're a little out of the AMS – sounds modern –: At the end of the year, the AMS will have brought 590 000 people out of unemployment. It is an institution with about 5,000 employees and a multi-billion budget. I think the two managing directors deserve adequate. Mrs Jarmer, you know – you have already received this from me in writing – that the budget for the disabled sector is not reduced, but the budget remains – you also know what measures – at the overall level. It is known that these resources are available. The reason for the study is quite simple: We currently have a support share for women in the AMS funding budget of 41.8 percent. We have a female share of 41.8 percent of the people affected, and we want to improve the share of support. That is why we are doing this study together to see how it looks and then think about how we can get better. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e30739	Next speaker: Mr Mag. It's a kilnauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e30760	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! Ladies and gentlemen! Consumer protection is a relatively small chapter in the budget. Nevertheless, it is also important to allow citizens to be informed and also to take action against seemingly overpowered opponents. You could say, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Protection by knowledge. For consumer protection, an amount of €3.11 million is foreseen in the budget. A significant part, i.e. € 2.7 million, goes to the Consumer Information Association. Through tests and product comparisons, and in particular through publications in his journal “Consumer”, it contributes greatly to the advice and information of the population. It is also not uninteresting to question why the VKI has lost its members and therefore co-financers in recent years, and – at the present time – the ÖGB has also resigned at the end of 2016, so that as the only member only the Federal Chamber of Labour remains, and therefore, of course, there is no income. Consumer rights only fulfil their purpose if they are enforceable. However, for a variety of reasons, only relatively few consumer disputes come to court. Therefore, on the basis of an EU directive with effectiveness of 9. In January 2016, eight nationally recognised conciliation bodies were created, which are responsible for various areas. With relatively little funding for the federal government, there is a great deal of added value here for consumers, I think, because these conciliation bodies can help to ensure that no expensive court proceedings need to be worked out, but can already be settled in advance without great use of money, time and nerves. It will certainly be interesting how these interlocutory bodies will work, how this will affect the work and also the complaint activity of the VKI, how it will affect product design, information and so on. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e30794	Mr Antoni is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e30815	Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank you for your support. High house! I would also like to take a brief look at the subject of consumer protection in my speech. Consumer protection is almost the same budget as 2015 available in the calendar year 2016, and there are no significant changes in this respect. An important measure in the field of consumer protection in 2016 is to ensure, inter alia, the legality and effectiveness of the conciliation bodies. ==References====External links== July of this year. res the Alternative Dispute Resolution Act adopted. This law has been created in the implementation of an EU directive and leads to the availability of a comprehensive network of alternative dispute resolution bodies across the EU by January 2016. I think that this is really a milestone from the point of view of consumer protection and will result in consumers having a real alternative to ordinary court proceedings for the enforcement of their claims in the future. Consumers are free to initiate dispute resolution proceedings in the event of complaints in the area of purchase and service contracts. Companies are free to participate in this. The law is therefore also an essential advantage for entrepreneurs and offers an additional free offer. In addition to the seven existing dispute resolution bodies, the new law also establishes a dispute resolution body. This is about simplifying consumer business, i.e. the pilot project initiated by the BMASK under the direction of former OGH President Dr. Irmgard Griss before the implementation of the EU Directive. The BMASK has gained very positive experience in the field of this pilot project. Another word about the costs: I think the chosen structure is a resource-efficient and effective implementation. Only the funding of the Conciliation Body and the monitoring and reporting required by the Directive, which is taken over by BMASK and BMVIT, constitute additional costs. The funding of the Conciliation Body will be made available annually at around €450,000 and monitoring and reporting will amount to just over €50 000. Finally, I would like to say that the alternative dispute resolution will enable all contractual disputes to be settled quickly, uncomplicatedly and appropriately in future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e30860	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Zakostelsky. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e30882	Mr President. Dear members of the government! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Oh, my God! I think we agree on one point after all the speeches on pensions: The government pension system, with a share of more than 14 percent of the total budget, is decisive for the budget to express this. In figures: € 11 billion of a total budget of € 77 billion. If, perhaps not quite appropriate now, you can see under the topic of pensions in a wider sense, the expenditure for official pensions of €9.4 billion is charged, then in total you will get expenditure on the pension theme in the order of €20 billion, and this corresponds to a share of more than one quarter of all payments of the federal government, planned in 2016. And a discharge – ladies and gentlemen, perhaps the decisive one – is not in view of the famous question of whether the pensions are secured or not. They are, of course, secure, but the question is always to what extent. What will happen to us in the next few years? – The famous Babybomer generation. Thus, the most powerful births in post-war history are referred to, namely, the vintages from 1956 to 1969; these are 14 very child-rich vintages. And these begin to retire in the years 2018 and 2019, which for us means that between 2018 and 2034 these 14, 15 birth-like years go into retirement, which naturally increases expenditure in the budget disproportionately. An incidental set maybe related to the baby boomers: If one looks at the birth rate in 1963, then 2.82 children per woman, about twice as high as today, one sees how important it would be to support the families even more. For our budget and for the Austrian population, the development of effective solutions on pensions is therefore crucial. On the one hand, as mentioned earlier, the state pension system must be safeguarded, but also kept financially, on the other hand also ensure the standard of living for future generations. This can be implemented with a clear five-point programme, to which I would like to make a preamble. The Preamble is simple and simple that it would be very, very important to make us in Austria aware again that work is not a shame and even longer work is no shame; otherwise some radio station on Monday in the early morning begins to point out that the next weekend is already coming to us in four and a half days. [[Abg. Schwentner: Then you have to see that people have a job!]] This does not necessarily raise morals – but that only on the edge. [[Abg. Neubauer: The Häupl is already in the weekend!]] As far as the concrete five points are concerned, ladies and gentlemen, most of the points are concerned, we agree: On the one hand, the approximation of the actual retirement age to the legal age, I believe that we are 100% d’ac-cord; hopefully also on the next issue, namely the very important approximation of the age of women's retirement to that of men, with due regard for child rearing times, which, as I think, is very important. This is also an important measure with regard to equality between women and men. The third point, ladies and gentlemen, is the link between the retirement age and the development of life expectancy. This is nothing but social justice. The fourth point is to increase individual flexibility in choosing the date of retirement. Ladies and gentlemen! Let us strengthen our citizens' choice of when they want to go into retirement in the case of appropriate insurance mathematical supplements or discounts, that is to say, according to very clean methods of calculation, this also in terms of intergenerative justice. Fifth and last points: Development of the second and third pillars of pension provision. By extending the company and individual precautions, each Austrian and every Austrian will in fact be able to obtain a supplement to the state sanctions, so to speak, the sausage on the bread. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwentner.]] As the first important measure, Mrs Colleague, the pension monitoring provided for in the government programme must be implemented urgently. As the second equally important measure – also in the government programme – the Pensions Commission urgently needs to deal with the pension system in the future, i.e. with the entire pension system, with all three pillars, and not only with the state pension. These things, ladies and gentlemen, are to be done! After all, we – we have quoted the government programme – soon reached the half-time of the legislative period, and we cannot always wait for the rapid fourth hour. The topic of pensions is probably more important than any other one of us in the country: The reforms must be implemented, then – and then indeed – there is also the possibility of securing pensions for the next generations. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e30940	Mr Wurm has spoken about an actual correction. Mr President, you know the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e30964	Mr President. Federal President in Spe Hundstorfer has claimed that migrant education in consumer protection has cost 14 000 €. [[Federal Minister Hundstorfer: Last year!]] I'm actually correcting: ==References====External links== In June 2015, he mentioned the amount of €273 138,24 on my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e31018	Federal Minister! [[Federal Minister Hundstorfer: Yes, I am already quiet!]] I am no longer in favour of subdivisions 20, 21, 22. The discussions on these topics are thus over. [[12:21:55]] UG 32: Art and culture
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e31047	We shall now proceed to the negotiation of subheading 32: Art and culture. First of all, Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e31072	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! I would like to focus on a special area and start with the following: How did Arik Brauer sing in his song? – “She built a house, built a house, built a house, built a house for us.” Well, it will not only become a house, but, as it is with a proper coalition government between red and black, you will build two houses; the house of history for the SPÖ – obviously the party that only wants to have something to do with its own history – and for the ÖVP the house of the future. However, if this government continues to work for a long time in Austria, this House may at least be a little smaller, just as it is planning the future of this country in view of this budget debate. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The House of History is a long-standing wish from the President of the Federal Republic of Germany downside; Cost: 111 million €. In the inn one says 111 is a number of snaps. – Yes, Schnapsiden obviously also get budgetary numbers. Mr Ostermayer has also said that there will be an estimate of 25 percent in this respect. So there will probably be 140 million. – 140 million €, which will be buried in the Heroes Square in part! Not only a deep store is made, but at one time a underground garage – an idea that will be Erhard Busek at the time when he was still responsible in Vienna, what the newspapers wrote about, Archduke Karl and Prince Eugen will then become the roof riders of this underground garage. This project has gone down with bombs and grenades and is now coming out of the Mottenkasse, even with the exception that institutions such as the armor chamber, the collection of old musical instruments suffer difficult, as well as the corresponding community – as is so beautifully said – the music maker has recognized. The Federal Minister has said that this collection of old musical instruments is not at all interesting, the audience is not interested in this collection at all, so one has to do something. – This is the perfide on it: First, you don't give the collection any money so that it can be modernly equipped, then you say it's unmodern now, and now we have 8.5 million € left to put it up again. This is not easy, because the collection of old musical instruments consists not only of small Piccoloflutes and mouth drums, which can be exhibited on stairs and in halls, but also large pianos, wings. Should these wings – in the truest sense of the word – be hung to the ceiling as the planes in the Technical Museum? Then you only need a flying pianist who will play on it during a concert. - No! This is absolutely unforgivable, what happens here with the collection of old musical instruments. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you like to have the house of history, you might want to try to interfere with me in terms of content and, above all, ideologically not at all, but in total, it is an absolutely inconceivable luxury to put 140 million € there in the sand to bury the earth! When I hear Mr. State Secretary Mahrer's argument that the House of the Future has been framing for the ÖVP – I quote: "... a unique opportunity to further develop the historically grown overall ensemble" – I already have the architectural competitions and the results where imperial axes have to be brought back, where counterpoints have to be placed, where dot houses have to come, and other viewpoints. It should become – I quote – the “signature of our time” and a “place” for “new ideas”. For the time being, it may also be that provisional buildings are to come. – This is relatively simple, because they are already there. These will be the containers in the course of the parliamentary resettlement to the Heroes Square, which will anyway convey the building site mood. That'll be these places. Mr. Federal Minister, the project House of History and the Coalition Access House of the Future will bring sustainable budgetary but also image-based damage to the reputation of the Republic of Austria in the world as a tourism, tourism and research location. Look, we'll have the opportunity to stop this dispassion through the early elections!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e31135	Next speaker: Mrs Hakel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e31156	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Politics must create the framework conditions for the creation and mediation of art and culture. Especially in a time like today when there is a strong refugee movement also in Austria and the fear of terrorist attacks, as they happened in Paris, is constantly present, an open concept of art and culture promotes the understanding and experience of the world and respect for others and is part of a mutual understanding and bridge to integration. Art and culture know no boundaries, art and culture enable participation in social processes and underline the individual's personal responsibility, regardless of social, ethnic or religious origin. Art and culture are part of the Austrian self-understanding and also an important economic factor. Of course, the framework conditions for artistic and cultural work need to be continuously secured and improved, both through an art and cultural budget. It has succeeded in keeping this stable, and with the refinancing of the construction costs of the museum quarter completed at the end of 2015, an additional € 15.5 million is available for award. This makes it possible to increase the basic remuneration of the Bundestheater and to strengthen the promotion of contemporary art. But the focus on regional cultural initiatives or also on innovative filmmaking is also a necessity and I am delighted. In addition to funding, there are other ways and measures to support the arts and culture sector. Therefore, I am very pleased that after lengthy negotiations with the ORF on the one hand, it has succeeded in achieving an Austrian music ratio of 16 percent to Ö3. On the other hand, it is also important that the ORF shows responsibility again when it comes to the Austrian film industry, and again strongly invests. It was urgent that the ORF fulfils its educational and cultural mandate again. Harddisk output keyword: It is gratifying that before the summer it finally succeeded to achieve this kind of remuneration, which is so vital for the artists, but we also know that it cannot stay there. It is now necessary to start discussions for a successor and also to install a strong copyright law. One area that is very important to me and which is not as much in our focus as it should actually be is digitization. The digital transformation progresses, it changes our society, and of course it also changes the possibilities in the field of art and culture, so we now have to deal with the following questions: What are the strategies for countering comprehensive economicisation in the cultural policy? What concrete challenges arise from digitalization? What opportunities, but there are also dangers through the digital revolution? What framework conditions does it need from politics? [[Abg. Neubauer: Yes which one?]] To answer these questions must certainly be one of the central tasks of policy next year.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e31193	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Zinggl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e31225	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Let's talk about clear text! The cultural budget has remained constant, it has not been increased. It is the same as last year and also the same as in the year before. This does not alter the attempts of the Minister of Finance or the Minister of Culture to present them differently. Deviations within the department – that would have to be clear between the two ministers – are not an increase under the line. I think the truth is reasonable to people: The cultural budget is constant, has remained unchanged. Now you can think about why. – Perhaps because of economic development, but if you look at what it looks like in Germany, there the cultural budget has been increased by 5 percent, then you have to say that Germany has a conservative Federal Chancellor and a conservative Minister of Culture – perhaps it is because of it. Or let's look at Switzerland! Switzerland has about the same economic situation as we do, and there is an increase in the cultural budget by 6 percent. In Italy, the economic situation is much worse than with us, but there is an increase in the cultural budget next year by 7 percent. Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, constant budgets mean less activities for cultural policy, because they are also affected by pressures. Higher rents, infrastructure costs, personnel costs are rising – the programmes have to suffer, that is clear, and also the activities. Of course you can say if all the resorts save, then the culture must also be saved. However, the general budget has grown and the cultural budget has remained the same. What does that mean? – This means that the budgets in the general budget have fallen by percentage in the culture. And we've been experiencing that for many years now. You see here on this curve that 20 years ago the percentage of the cultural budget in the general budget was 1.5 percent, and now it goes at 0.5 percent. [[To illustrate the following versions, place a panel on the speaker’s console]] Even if the budgets remain the same in cultural policy, this is still the issue of division. This is perhaps culturally political, even the more important question: Who gets what? This is very interesting, because in recent years we have increasingly had to do with an allocation to the state-owned large tankers, museums and the federal theatres. The Bundestheater is now again receiving € 15 million more. It can be said that this is a bill of price, but it should also apply to everyone else. I also have a board, on which we see the development since 2006 to 2016. [[another panel on the speaker’s console]] While the allocations to Bundestheater and Bundesmuseen are rising significantly, all others in the sheer are visible in the lower section of the curve and are falling further. That means that this sheer is getting more and more apart. What does that mean for the future? – For the future, this means extrapolating, if this continues, not only that at some point only the federal institutions will be supported by the Republic, but that any increase in the federal institutions at the same time means a weakening of all the other institutions with a constant budget. And there is no money left for the cultural design possibility at all. It is not true that the Bundestheater will only receive € 15 million next year, but always from next year. That is to say, we are dealing with an ongoing increase in the federal institutions, which always go at the expense of others. Mr Ostermayer, I urge you to recognize and counter the development. We know that the House of History – and again the ongoing operation, not even the commissioning, will cost not even the construction costs – €3.6 million a year; in turn, as part of the Federal Museums. This is a development that worries me! I can show you once again, Mr Minister, my two tables which show, on the one hand, the development of the share of cultural expenditure in the total budget and, on the other hand, the development of the national institutions in comparison with all the others. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e31282	Mrs Dipl.-Kffr.Pfurtscheller is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e31308	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear viewers and viewers! I would like to draw your attention to the arts and culture in rural regions and also to the promotion of women in art and culture. I am very concerned about art and culture in the rural regions. I am an electorate from Tyrol and have quite a lot of experience with cultural initiatives. I am also engaged in several cultural associations myself and can say from my own experience: Cultural work in the countryside is strongly marked by many people who do cultural work with a lot of heart blood, mostly volunteering, free of charge in their free time, and cultural work in the country is also characterized by the constant search for money. Mayor, Excuse me – mayor, excuse me now, I was probably too much in the country –, Federal Minister Rupprechter, together with Mr. Federal Minister Ostermayer, has launched a new initiative to promote regional art and cultural projects in order to support the many creatives in rural areas. The funding initiative will be implemented under the EU LEADER programme 2014 to 2020 and will also be supplemented by funding from the BKA. With a total budget of around €2 million, about 20 projects are to be implemented in the run-up. I very much welcome this, of course, but I allow myself to say – Mr Finanzminister, also addressed to you – that: It may also be a bit more in the future, perhaps for the next lead period, because if I think of the € 2 million, then I now only know in my constituency some projects that could need these 2 million. In connection with this, I would like to make a sidestep a community package. This has been reviewed recently, the deadline has already expired, and I would like to express my sincere congratulations to our Secretary of State Mahrer and thank him for having been so committed to it. These measures are intended to facilitate the deductibility of donations to culture and help to increase the flow of private money into the culture. However, I am very sorry that only associations and cultural initiatives will benefit if they also receive public funding; at least this is what the Minister of Culture has told us in the Committee on Culture. I hope I got it right. I think that especially cultural initiatives, which do not receive public funds, need money, need private sponsorship quite urgently like a bite of bread, and I would therefore like to ask for further reflections in the future to bring about improvements or additions. “Art does not reflect what is visible, but makes it visible.” – This is a statement by Paul Klee, and in this sense I would like to talk about the promotion of women in art and specifically the promotion of women for film-makers. In his reply to the question concerning the promotion of women in the film industry, Federal Minister Ostermayer addressed this. Mr Minister, I would really like to congratulate you: As far as the award of funds directly from your scholarships, projects, purchases, prices and premiums is concerned, you are really very, very exemplary on the road! It has not yet been split 50 : 50, but you are already very close to it. The Austrian Film Institute, on the other hand, still needs a lot of food. It currently stands at a distribution ratio of 75 percent to 25 percent. But at least it looks like there's going to be a lot of things going on in the near future. I'm sorry. And I would ask you, Minister, to continue to use this area as far as possible. I am now finally coming to a point which does not directly concern the cultural budget. It's about promoting film-makers in the ORF. The Minister has told us in the Committee that an agreement has been reached with the ORF that over the next three years it will invest €95 million, €100 million and € 105 million in the Austrian film industry. This is, of course, very encouraging, but unfortunately not a certain percentage for women has been negotiated. In this sense, I would like to ask you and Mr Mahrer, Secretary of State, to point out in the talks that there is a fair distribution as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e31360	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Alm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e31381	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! The budget in the arts and culture sector is falling very slightly. And even if the internal budgetary room increases somewhat by the departure for the rates of the museum quarter, one cannot necessarily say that the budget remains equal or even increases. New, representative projects – a literary prize, a house of history, other measures around Heroes Square – are also planned, which in part should be found in this budget, but are not necessarily seen. I don't know where this money is supposed to come from. But it is also important where this money is to go. It is noteworthy that other promoters existing around the museum have of course been standing with their backs on the wall for years. The rate of sales has also been increased in the field of culture. The new tax abstinences in the arts and culture sector seem to only affect promoters again and thus exclude others. In other words, this only fills gaps where it leaves the state itself and tightens the situation for free and independent institutions. However, the problem lies precisely in these areas between pop culture, socio-cultural, free art, because that could be the areas to which it comes in the future. So point one: Stoli. Second point: The same mistakes occur as in media policy. These are representative projects that help the government, but not necessarily society. This makes a system of institutions from 19th and 20th years old. Century stabilized, which with less and less money can in principle offer less and less performance, while we actually miss the virtual, digital, networked discourses of the future regularly. The 2014 Art Report lists individual grants, awards, something like gender budgeting. We can therefore take a picture of how balanced and fair it is within the funding projects. That's nice, but that's secondary. Art and culture are not self-evident. And far more important than the question of how art and culture are concerned are other questions: How powerful is our art and cultural landscape? Who ever saw or heard the support? Did it move anything? Have new attempts been started to keep up with time? – I say no! But also because this perspective has failed, it has not worked. Our culture must have more impact than xenophobia, extremism, religious fanaticism. It's not just about how we measure art and culture, it's not about prices and admissions, it's about a debate that my colleague Franz – who's not here – would sum up as something like guiding culture. And today, Mr Franz, on Twitter, has put forward the proposal: “I am in favour of that in the Esterr’s plenary room. Parliament is being hanged a cross. #National Council #Main culture" But I would really ask him to make this a request, if one can make it as an application at all. Then we vote on it and then we see how it goes. And if there really is a cross, you can think of what I'm going to hang next to it. The budget for culture also finds no answers to this challenge. It promotes stones and it promotes concrete. Newer representative museums and prices are, of course, great, but it is not that there would have been no museums and theatre in which the angry, young, white men could go out of the suburbs or the immigrants who have been traumatized by war. [[Abg. Wheelers: You live in a dream world!]] You just don't go. – Just as young people no longer consume ORF programs these days, as young people do not read newspapers anymore, but get their nonlinear TV contributions out of the Internet or perhaps use daily newspaper-like subway media at best. Why do you think Heinz Christian Strache is so successful in social media? [[Abg. Rosary: He is not only successful there!]] A cultural policy that does not create a perspective on discourses will have no relevance at all for future generations. With these new chic prizes and new underfinanced institutions, we will not win anything. It may still be possible for an ever smaller elite to entertain itself culturally, but we will lose an ever larger part of society with it. [[Abg. Insanity!]] Everything we do is so Bergmoney. But for a budget that is intended to provide broad connectivity, that is clearly too little.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e31471	I need to see if I can find it in the record. I have not heard it, honourable Member, but don't worry, I will verify it! Mrs Mag. Muttons. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e31495	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Back to the cultural affairs: I would like to address foreign cultural matters. Although foreign culture is largely located in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Art and Culture is also aware of the importance of bi- and multilateral cultural matters. For this reason, 1.1 million € were also budgeted. The strengthening and further development of the positioning of Austria as an art and cultural nation is an important undertaking. But this is not only about the positioning of Austria worldwide, but far beyond. Bi- and multilateral projects provide a platform for exchange, for dialogue, will ultimately provide a further This is the first time that we have been able to find a solution to the problems facing the Community. Art is therefore a means of reflection, irritation and re-look and can therefore also be an important contribution to a peace process. For example, on the Majdan day after day, the Tulunbass is to hear the traditional cosakic drum. The Kazakh artist wants to place a sign in the central square of the Ukrainian capital and symbolically bring about peace. For example, the world-famous musician and conductor Daniel Barenboim does not give up to let Palestinian and Israeli musicians experience a new reality with his project "West-East Divan", namely that of playing music together – with the emphasis on it. For example, Turkish-Greek Cypriot archaeologists have long worked together across the closed border, under the most difficult conditions to make their common cultural heritage visible. In 2011 musicians and dancers played an important role in Tunis, in the days following the fall of dictator Ben Ali, when the mood was at the extremes, when dedicated demonstrators and the insecure security forces of the fallen regime were confronted. The situation could have escalated in violence at any time, and there was a group of peaceful musicians and dancers who put themselves in Tunis between the demonstrators and the police. They have managed to solve the dangerous tension between the police and the population through their art, through music. Art and culture thus play an important and balancing role in times of uncertainty, conflict and crisis. And that is why I would like to say a sentence from Tatjana Markova, the head of the cultural department of the Ukrainian port metropolis Odessa, who said in an interview: "The whole energy released from the conflict must be picked up. Especially with the boys (...). And we want this energy to be converted into creativity: in drums, painting walls, organizing festivals. This is also a kind of self-understanding of society and takes the stress that people feel.” – Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e31549	Mr Rädler, you will find it in the Stenographical Protocol of the said term of yours. Unfortunately, I have to give you a call for order. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] – I would ask you to give up applause and similar rallys in order calls! Mrs von Wogau (S). — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e31585	Yes, the comedy is also part of the arts and culture department.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e31606	That's where I'd be trying to praise you, too.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e31621	Mr President. Minister! The budget corresponds to art and culture – we have already heard it – de facto to that of Previous year. But I do think that we should not be sorry here, because there is little money there, the debt of the Federal Republic is increasing steadily. I believe that it can be seen as a success that has not been negotiated downwards in the arts and culture budget. That's why we're all running on a very high level. Unfortunately, you can't spend more than you take. But I think art and culture has so much to offer in Austria that we really have an international, very great business card here. The budget has not changed much. However, a number of changes have been made among the recipients, namely by re-transpositions, individual sub-areas as well as contemporary art and cultural creators will be able to make more money available. This includes, for example, increasing the basic fee for the Bundestheater by € 14 million. This is not quite understandable for me, honestly, because recently the Court of Auditors was very clearly debated in the subcommittee that the Bundestheater-Holding lacks internal control and a four-eye principle is missing. That is why I cannot fully understand this increase, especially if it is to be carried out for more years. Overall, relatively few initiatives are being put in place in the budget, which can be expected to be of great development. The basic question in the room is how to promote the public hand at all. In fact, targeted art and cultural promotion is rather rejected by the artists as an influence and restriction of the development possibilities. In particular, our art and cultural understanding is not one of subsidized state artists, but our cultural understanding is that we say that with the existing arts and cultural means, one must rather promote the breadth, the diversity – with optimal transparency, with fair distribution of resources and, of course, with valuable cultural promotion, which also creates an environment in which the culture of our country can be positively realized for our and, of course, for future generations. At this point, I would like to pick out something very, very positive for the arts and culture sector, namely the change in the Law on non-profit-making, which has indeed been envisaged. As of 2016, a number of companies could have taken the decision to increase the rate of value added tax from 10 to 13 percent, with the status of public utility, many companies could now benefit from this change. It is also alleged that it is also discussed whether this area should be excluded from the registration obligation. So I hope and expect that this change will be or will soon be decided positively here in Parliament. This is a very, very beautiful sign for art and culture, and – as a small sidenote – I would also like this law for animal protection and sport. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e31673	Mr Ostermayer came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e31694	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I begin with a thank you, with the thanks to Mr Finanzminister, to the Federal Government and also to all the Members who will agree to the budget, for a very simple reason, from the point of view of art and culture: We have a budget that makes much more millions available to do new things, increase promotions, increase the basic salary. And that's what we're doing. Of course, Mr Zinggl, even if more money is actually available. We have had the discussion that nominally the amount has fallen by 0.5 million. That's quite easy to explain. This year we made a change to the business classification. For example, due to the new division of business at the Federal Chancellor's Office and the merger of the two sections Art and Culture – under the guidance of the Court of Auditors – the colleagues who have been involved in budget control have been assigned to the presidential section. This also means that the budget for these employees of the UG 32 has also migrated to the UG 10. This means, therefore, that additional money is available from the past – museum quarters and Erl – due to the falling burdens from the past. Of these additional funds, 14 million are put in the base of the Bundestheater, and more funds will be invested in various initiatives: Among other things, the field of innovative film is increased by 10 percent. It will increase the promotion of young people in the fields of music and performing art by € 0.5 million. The innovative museum work will increase funding for the Jewish museums in Vienna, Hohenems and Eisenstadt. The amount for cultural initiatives will be increased. Already in this year, the promotion of publishing houses has been increased, and there are also, because the demand has been demonstrated accordingly, increases at the Salzburg Festival, at the Bregenzer Festival. And to secure the artistic program, money is also made available to the museum quarter, which can so far be financed from lower interest rates, because we find that the museum quarter and the program that makes the museum quarter itself is worth being supported. I would also like to thank the Minister for Finance, in addition to the support by the Federal Government, through countries, for some of which I have also opened up a new funding platform for art and culture, namely the availability of donations. We agreed to it in the government programme, and yesterday this law was passed in the Council of Ministers. We don't know exactly how much that will matter. There are estimates, for example, from the fundraising association, where it is assumed that there are between € 20 and 25 million, which are also flown into the field of art and culture. We have discussed very intensively how we can construct this, so that it is also practical for the financial authorities and for the citizens to understand, in which institutions, if you donate, can also stop this donation. Since we do not want and wanted the financial authorities to decide whether a particular institution operates art and culture, we have said: We link up to where there is already expertise, namely at the Federal Funding Offices and the funding offices of the countries or, due to the constitutional special situation, at the municipality of Vienna. If you create a new instrument, then it is about that – economically or administratively – this is partly manageable, so we have opted for this procedure. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] On the federal theatres and the just made statements by Mrs Weigerstorfer on what was discussed in the Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors: We have already put in place many measures in 2014 and also in this year, in order to avoid these problems that have almost exploded at the Burgtheater in March 2014 in the best possible future. At the Burgtheater, I have put in place appropriate personnel measures, we have a new law on the Bun- destheater-Holding, I have ordered interim Günter Rhomberg, and we have announced the function of the Bundestheaterholding-chef or the Chefin. On Sunday, hearings took place with the candidates who were selected. In the next few days, I will hold talks with these candidates, and then a new occupation will be held in good time. Before I take a look at the future with you: I could say a lot more to the budget about points that seem to have been misunderstandingd, but I hope that I have already done so now and also in the Committee on Budgets. Now to look into the future: What's next year? . Yesterday, at the Council of Ministers for Culture in Brussels, we also discussed the subject of robbery and dealing with it. To this end, a UNESCO Convention was signed in 1970, but it has not been implemented for a very long time. In the meantime, we have decided in the Council of Ministers on a corresponding law on cultural goods return, which is about preventing trade in predatory art, which is also one of the sources of funding of the IS. I have now learned that the Cultural Committee is unfortunately only meeting in January, otherwise we could have decided and implemented this earlier. In addition, we are currently in the finalisation of a federal museum law, in which the construction of a house of history – almost as an independent department in the National Library – is also to be established by law. With regard to the complex Heldenplatz has already made initial cost estimates by the expert group, which are also discussed in the media. The next step is to develop an appropriate financing concept, of course also together with the Minister of Finance, in order to go into implementation. In addition, there are some calls for tenders: The management at the Museum of Applied Arts, in the Belvedere and in the National Library is announced each year, as well as the artistic direction at the Staatsoper, as music theatre needs a preliminary run. So we have enough topics in the coming year too, which we can discuss intensively with each other. Once again, Minister of Finance, thank you very much! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e31770	Mrs Nachbaur. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e31792	Mr President. Dear government representatives! Dear colleagues in the House! Dear taxpayers! Fortunately, there are citizens and companies that give money for a good purpose, whether that is in the field of sports, science, art or whether it is for another charitable purpose. If you look at the private donations in different countries, you can see the following: In Austria, about 65 percent of the people donate €90 a year, in Germany there are already 70 percent who donate €150, in Switzerland there are 75 percent who give €460, and in the USA the most is donated at all, because it is €700 per person per year. At foundations, the difference is much more acute. In Germany, 183 € are donated per head, in Switzerland 109 € and in Austria the total amount of 3 €. So Austria is obviously not a country where private benefactors are only so infested with it. [[Abg. Wheeler:... NEOS!]] Why is that so? Why do Americans, Germans, Swisss donate much more? – It is obvious that there is a clear link to the high state rate. So does the eaty state make us greedy? Why is the charity elsewhere, while in general, but especially by the rich, with a few commendable exceptions, so little is donated to us? [[Abg. Rädler:... Hazelsteiner!]] There are two reasons for this: The first is the high tax burden, and second, that's a question of power. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wheeler.]] The tax burden: The Austrian taxpayers remain far too little in the pocket of money, so it is understandable when people think: What, you want me to donate now? – I therefore very much welcome tax relief, especially for lower incomes, through the tax reform, but we are far from the goal. In any case, the government ratio must be lowered below 40 percent in the long term. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We know that the tax rate must be reduced, dear comrades! [[towards SPÖ]] With a 40 percent government ratio, Germany has not only a balanced budget, but even generates a billion-high budget surplus. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: Where is...?]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The second reason why we donate so little: Distribution means power. [[Call at the SPÖ: Then the Russians would rejoice!]] A short story: A non-profit association established a hospital. The head of state came of course to the solemn opening and obviously enjoyed the lightning thunderstorm. Later on in the meal, a representative of this non-profit association said to the head of state that the public hand could actually have saved the grant if donations were better deductible. This head of state rejected this, of course, and said: Yeah, what am I for then? Distribution, ladies and gentlemen, means power. This is particularly true in the red Vienna, where the city with more than 220 000 apartments is the largest property owner in Europe, and at the same time living in Vienna is as expensive as hardly anywhere else, but if the citizens depend on the state distribution then they are dependent, and this likes so many politicians. [[Abg. Gisela Worm:... so much time must be already!]] [[Abg. Steinhauser: That's total nonsense!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] However, we need less dependence on the state, more private involvement by civil society and especially by the wealthy. Instead of "eat the rich", we need more "general rich", i.e. more rich who are donationable and who like to give. [[Hello call at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: Yes, exactly, here with the Reich tax!]] Economic freedom makes more generous than state premeditation. Thank God, Secretary of State Mahrer has recognized this correctly, so I would like to congratulate him very warmly on the new law on the non-profit foundation, with which donations can now be applied to art and cultural institutions for the first time. – Bravo, Mr Mahrer! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course, I hope that not only the left-wing state artists will benefit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e31956	Next speaker: Mr Mölzer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e31977	Mr President. Minister! High house! I can address three areas to this cultural budget. Point one is the today's multi-thematic basis for the Bundestheater, where there is a significant increase. In our view, there is the great problem that this significant increase is de facto mainly in the higher personnel costs and not in the operating budget, i.e. in the actual cultural budget. On the one hand, this is a shame because it does not basically increase the range of culture, and on the other hand it is a shame because, as we have seen in the Court of Auditors' subcommittee on the Federal Theatres, there has been a potential saving potential of up to €30 million or there is still no exploit. If you do this or at least some of it, I think that would be very nice, because you could actually invest in the cultural offer. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The second point, which, if one wants to do so, appears to us in general as a problem and which has been going through the years, is the question of transparency in subsidies. From our point of view, the first question is the question of the advisory committees which grant cultural and art subsidies. There are people in the advisory councils who decide on promotions and at the same time – in the same years – also obtain funding from the same pots. This smells like clumsy, these operations are not transparent and not to be welcomed in the distribution of public funds. On the other hand, and I think this is an even greater problem, the so-called transparency database – which, of course, also affects other policy areas, not just cultural and art activities – is a project that has been largely announced by the government, as we all know, in recent years, which, in our view, would be urgently necessary in order to avoid duplications in support, in order to distribute funding more efficiently and to achieve transparency in this regard. The third area I would like to address – that has already been the subject of today – is the community package. This is really a gratifying step in the field of art and cultural sponsorship, but with the limitation that only then the tax deductibility in the field of art and cultural institutions is possible, if these are also promoted by the federal government or by the countries, which is already very limited. That is why we believe that this can only be a first step. You know: The long-standing demand of us liberals is the tax deductibility for all private expenses and for sponsoring of contemporary art and culture. There is also a request in the Committee on Culture, as well as in the transparency database, which I hope the representatives of the government parties will in future not postpone these requests until the Sankt-Nimmerleins Day, but, I believe, they will be implemented together with us in a very valuable and meaningful way in the field of culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e32033	I call Mr Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e32054	Since the colleague Rebaur is not in the hall, I can give the ÖVP a hint: Be alert! Watch out! She already has: Dear comrades!, said to us. That could be the first step towards us. [[Rejoicing and condolences with the SPÖ, as well as with representatives of ÖVP and Greens.]] A placerl we would still have, we could still make that available, so: Watch out! [[Call the SPÖ: A threat!]] However, since I have only three minutes of speaking time, I would like to address a few points in a short time. The first concerns the basic problem in the field of media and media promotion, that print media in the printing sector are getting less and less and do not deserve enough in the online sector. There is a need to think together about how to guarantee – especially taking into account competition with large corporations, with Google, with others – that there is also a quality journalistism, also an independent journalism. This would have to be based on the funding criteria to be discussed. That would be something that... [[Abg. Rädler:... Austria!]] Well, do we have another call, a sharp one? Let everything out at last! Just say it once! Tell me at last! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Willi.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Or is nothing in there? I don't know now, he only knows! [[Cheerfulness with SPÖ and Greens.]] [[Abg. You don't want to hear that!]] You still can't have enough, can you? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] We can talk, too. Come out, let's do a double conference! I don't mind, you're good. [[Abg. Wheelers:... don't want to hear...!]] Nevertheless, now I have to keep talking, it doesn't help. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] Even if you're so passionate about listening to me, I still have to talk. It is therefore so important that in this field of electronic media competition, one especially appreciates the importance of public-law broadcasting, but that one sees that there is a variety of media. I am convinced that the Minister will certainly want to continue this path together with us. Another point is – because this is always up-to-date – the question of our move. We will settle with our replacement spaces at the Hofburg. With regard to the legitimate concerns of the National Library, with regard to storage and garage, and so on, only the following would be important: The fact that the planning and surveying can take place is of course, is clear, but what I can't imagine is that we then have to work there and then hear all around ra-ta-ta-ta-ta, and possibly even among our containers, where we don't know if we don't hang 5 meters deeper in a short time. I do not think that anyone would have wanted to do that, but I say, as a works council of all here in the hall, that you should really consider a lot of things in this regard. Last point: Because there is always the discussion about a “house of the future”. Future, future – I have been allowed to lead the future workshop for years, I think this is an important topic, I would just like to know what substance one should address. No one will want to gather glass balls or prophets there – then you will have to think about it. There are different parties with different concepts and considerations, which can be quite an exciting discussion – whether this will be enough for a “house” is another debate. But thinking about looking over the edge of the plate, I thought it was exciting. I am therefore excited to see if Mr Mahrer will present something. Otherwise, if you want, let's go to a coffee, I don't mind. [[in the direction of the Abg. Wheeler]] You've got something in your face again, I feel it. [[Abg. Wheeler: Yes!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e32210	Next, Mr Neubauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e32232	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! My speech deals with a subject area that essentially has to do with culture, namely the protection of monuments in Austria. In recent decades, the monument protection, such as observations, has often become the game ball of politics in Austria. The great monument protector of Austria, Alois Riegl, whom we owe a lot to, would not be pleased with today's conditions, which are being practiced there and there. Many have found the reason for this in the legislative novels of 1978 and 2000, where, in the view of many architects – including many architects – there has been no great improvement, but in many cases, through the additions to the law, namely through the inclusion of terms such as ensemble protection, construction status or economic efficiency, legal possibilities to actually intervene in the relevant building materials to be protected, and now in a legal way. Let me give you a few examples from my hometown of Linz: The accident hospital was removed in this way, the Chamber of Labour did not pay any attention to the protection of the monument, and the same procedure is planned and already noticed at the financial building Linz, at the main square. We reject this form of monument protection as a freeman, since we believe that it is essential to intervene in cultural goods. Mr. Federal Minister, we would like to see – as many national conservators I have talked to in recent weeks and months, who also teach at universities and complain there – that you, as the Federal Minister, are finally creating framework conditions that enable these national conservators to carry out their work again. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It would really be time! We have been waiting for the appropriate framework conditions for at least five years in order to give the national conservators the opportunity to re-establish the monument protection.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e32281	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Tür. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e32302	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the cultural policy of SPÖ, Austrian history, and thus our history, has a high priority. ==References== It was so that our parents and grandparents had dramatic – not to say: tragic – experiences. ==References== In the 19th century, it has probably become the one that has the strongest influence on Austrian identity. In this sense, I also welcome the concern of Federal Minister Josef Ostermayer that the debate with history is taking place and is being mediated actively. An initiative is the “House of History”. I think Heroes Square is one of the magical places in Vienna and Austria where politics, history, culture have taken place in concentrated form. History, of course, is about knowledge, facts, and, of course, also about cultural achievements in Austria. But one's own story is always a mirror. And if you look at the mirrors of Austrian history, you can not only see the beauty of Art Nouveau style and those of the Ringstraße-Prächtbauten, the Austrian mirror is a medium that also has brown spots. Therefore, in the Austrian mirror of history one can see also worshiping dictatorships, one sees cowardice and indifference, one can also see the way in the field of anti-Semitism and hatred. Anti-Semitism and hatred have prepared the ground for horrendous people, namely, for the insult and hatred of minorities, for arrogance and robbery, for the deportation of people, for extermination camps, for so-called wars of conquest and for millions of murders.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e32333	Excuse me, deputies. I should like to ask you, as a speaker speaks, if in any way possible, to release this area here. [[pointing towards the government bank, where Abg. Willi spoke with Federal Minister Ostermayer]] Please, Mr President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e32354	Thank you, Mr President. When it comes to the mediation of Austrian history, it is so that we have great exhibitions on the occasion of commemoratives and anniversaries. But now a permanent place could be created for the mediating of time history. The focus here is, of course, on the 20th century. In the 20th century, it also included democracy, parliamentarism and dictatorship. You'll probably ask questions. Some of the questions are: How was it possible for an emperor and his imperial government to send Parliament to the “compulsory leave ” in 1914? How could a declaration of war take place at this time, a world war started from Vienna – without the consent of Parliament without this being discussed? Another question is: How, in 1933, could an Austrian Federal Government Hermetically have this Parliament locked off by police and refused entry to elected parliamentarians? However, a permanent place of time history should become more a place of thought than a place of thought. The question remains: Can you learn from history? – I think an attempt is worth it all. Therefore: Yes to the project “House of History”! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e32393	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Mulder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e32415	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! “For me reading belongs to the good sound.” This was done by Anna Netrebko during an event in the series “Austria Reads. Meeting point library” said. This is an event series, in which Christoph Waltz, two-time Oscar prizewinner, also participated and which was made possible by the initiative of the Austrian Federal Chancellor's Office and the cultural budget. I have also chosen the topic of books in the cultural budget because it illustrates two things, namely the cultural concept of how the SPÖ understands it – one wants to reach all the people living in Austria – and culture as a contribution to training and deepening basic skills as well. The possibility to access books is exemplary in Austria, also internationally. There are over 1,500 libraries in Austria to get to literature. In this respect, Vienna stands out particularly with its 39- library store network, where printed, digital, offline, online, audio, video, multimedia media are available. This has also enabled more people to visit the books, which only later discover their love for the book. The offer is also relatively good in rural areas. Due to the breakdown in associations of carriers, the parish books, small books benefit from the central offer and from the offer made available. There are signs of education – here I would also like to thank the volunteers, whose work allows decentralized small units to exist at all – software licenses, offers for reading promotion and direct funding of half a million euros. All this shows that the cultural budget is very good in savings times. It ensures this offer, and it also allows for an extension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e32460	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e32481	Mr President. The Federal Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! In the 2016 budget approach, art and culture subdivided, gender equality is enshrined in Article 1. I would like to stress here once again, Federal Minister, that since 2007, your report has provided an exemplary overview of how to grant funding between the sexes. Here you can read a righteousness-lact-must test. When we discuss the budget of art and culture, it is of course also about making visible. In art and culture, women should also be made visible. Women are very often not in the foreground, in the spotlight. Bringing women to the curtain is an important signal in this context, yes, more than a signal! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to point out here to the Federal Minister that he is a female friend in a positive sense, for example, what one sees in the following facts: Karin Bergmann is Burgtheater-Chefin. Elke Deligan-Meissl is appointed Commissioner for the Austrian Pavilion at the 2016 architectural biennial and is also the winner of the 2015 Grand Austrian State Prize. The cultural and art section is in women's hands: Sectionschefin is Andrea Ecker, a very well-known and competent civil servant. In addition, I would like to mention award winners: The Erich Peace Prize went to Dorothee Elmiger, the Austrian State Prize for Literature Criticism at Brigitte Schwens-Harrant, the Manès-Sperber Prize at Ilma Rakusa. 13 women received start scholarships and, and, and. That's an important signal, Minister of State! Women need to be thanked! Women need to get the chance to show and exploit their potential! Of course, it takes money, it needs funds, and they have made you available and sent to women. As a Tyrolean Member, let me also mention three very important art projects – in addition to all the smaller promotions you have given to programme cinemas in Innsbruck for example: The Festivals in Erl were held at €500 000, the Festival weeks of the Old Music – a great supporter and singer is also Georg Willi – with €120 000, and the sound tracks – contemporary music in Schwaz in Tyrol – are subsidized with €120 000. This is important and well-used capital, which we – Federal Minister Rupprechter nodd – can assure you as a Tyrolean, and as a Tyrolean, I would like to thank you for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e32536	On the subdivision of art and culture, I no longer have word messages. The discussions on this subject are therefore complete. [[13:28:35]] UG 42: Agriculture, forestry and water management UG 43: Environment
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e32572	We now come to the negotiation of subheadings 42: Agriculture, forestry and water management, and 43: environment. A joint debate is taking place on this matter. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e32599	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! The climate conference will take place in Paris next week. For the first time, developing countries will also be subject to these limitation obligations. Austria is in a good starting position in order to achieve its climate change targets by 2020, also to achieve emission reduction by 2020 through domestic measures without the purchase of certificates. Emissions trading currently covers only power plants and industrial plants. However, if private households, agriculture and transport in particular, there is a total surplus of four billion allowances. If you evaluate the vice versa with € 30 per certificate, we have a surplus of € 120 billion in emission certificates. At the same time, these certificates are traded by private organisations, not by government organisations. We say consistently and strictly: We reject this emissions trading, because this trade in certificates does not protect the environment, in no area. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Federal Minister, you mentioned in the Committee on Budgets how you would like to achieve the climate change objectives better in the future. Currently there are 170 000 Green jobs, a total of 3 984 projects you are running; Their ambitious goals for the future: 200 000 Green jobs; You want to achieve €40 billion in sales in this area to boost the economy. Of course, it is important to have a sufficient budget, sufficient financial resources. That's what we're limping behind, especially in your area. Until now, you had a total of €100 million available in your area in the case of thermal renovation alone. Now 50 percent of the budget has been cut in your area. Payments in the field of climate and energy funds are falling by €11.35 million in your area. At the same time, however, you say you need a lot more resources. Mr. Federal Minister, one minute and another minute will not be a plus. This is an old bill after Adam Ries, and it will not be possible to play it in the future. The budget and the transparency of the funding are concerned solely because the estimate of the funds for the thermal renovation and the climate and energy funds is divided into different UGs. That even says the budget service of this house. The division of competence between the environment and the economic sector in the field of renewable energy is finally regulated! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr. Federal Minister, these double-tracks and this bureaucratic obstacle are to be ended, and things have to be regulated in a uniform manner in the field of renewable energy. In the following way, it cannot be – only as an example – namely: ==References== December, there is the same game every year: ==References== On December 24th, the ladies and gentlemen who apply for a promotion, in front of their PC, press the button. What's going on? – 5 minutes later, the whole network collapses. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lightenecker.]] Overall, the funding system is unified and made transparent! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In conclusion: No trading of certificates and funding like on a Turkish bazaar! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e32682	Next speaker: Mr Auer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e32703	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! With the approval of the President, I also particularly welcome a school group of the abz Lambach, an excellent agricultural training centre. [[General condolences.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, I am dedicated to the chapter on agriculture and forestry and I must insist that agriculture in particular is an important factor in the added value and appreciation of rural areas. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The value added of primary agricultural production consists of many aspects, ranging from the original task of agriculture, food production, production of means of production, animal feed to energy production. Agriculture is more than just production. Farmers and farmers work daily for every citizen of our country because every day we have people to feed. Anyone who eats, benefits from this production, from the hands of the farmers and the farmers. And every day you have to produce more. Keywords: The population of the world is growing, also the population of Austria. Better and better quality is needed, as especially in those countries where prosperity has grown, all naturally want the better quality. Especially the farmers and farmers are a professional group that works a lot, even on Sundays and holidays, in the morning and in the evening. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Even at night!]] This should not be forgotten in some discussions. As this professional group works so efficiently, ladies and gentlemen, many do not need to work in agriculture anymore, but they benefit from this professional group. That is why I often wonder where the appreciation for the products produced remains. I am very excited if there is a rural manifesto of a large trade chain, on beautiful paper, but unfortunately limited. The best agricultural manifesto, I repeat here, would be appropriate prices if this trade chain were to implement it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Interestingly, these trade chains explain to us, their prices are based on calculations. Interesting and exciting is the fact that precisely these trade chains are able to set up four or five such sales stores in municipalities with 3,000, 4,000 inhabitants. And they are able to re-start or perhaps even rebuild these sales objects every six or seven years. This opportunity of calculation and this opportunity to rework a stable every six or seven years, I would like to have as a farmer, as a farmer once. I would also ask that this be asked to my colleagues on the left, to say some times to the Chamber of Labour: If one compares prices, one should look a little more objectively, the things are somewhat more objective and the prices are somewhat more realistic. It's exciting that it doesn't matter to us when cats' milk, dog food and so on per kilo cost €4.5, but a litre of milk in the shop can't even cost €1. [[I should like to congratulate Mr Doppler and Mr Schmid on his work.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I was in Tokyo recently; there costs a liter of milk for sale 2 €. In America you won't find a liter of milk below $2, and with us the world will go down if you want to skip 1 € by a few cents. That's where the world is going. Ladies and gentlemen, on this occasion, as we are dealing with the budget, I should like to thank the Federal Minister for his initiatives: First: It was recognised that the rural development programme was the first programme in Europe to be completed. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Secondly, That it is possible to make certain payments, like few countries in Europe, shows that Austria is quite outstanding. Thirdly, Mr Federal Minister, thank you for the possibility that export will be facilitated in the future by setting up an export service office. Unfortunately, we have had to experience that this is urgently necessary. Because it is always interesting – I know, I repeat here – when the economy exports, this is due to the special performance of the Austrian companies. We are proud of the companies, we are proud of the employees there. If the peasantry has to export and should, then surplus production is. That is why I also ask for a little more appreciation here.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e32771	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Brunner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e32792	Mr President. Mr. Environment Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear spectators with us here in the house and also at home! I will devote my speech to the environmental budget, which will also be discussed. I would like to say in advance that we have also put written questions in committee meetings. The answers are not yet available. This is not a concrete accusation to you, Mr Minister, since it is still within the deadline, but I still think it is relatively unfavorable if we hold the debate here without having the answers to questions put to us by Members – and I think I can speak for everyone. It would certainly have been more interesting for the debate, even for you, if we could have discussed the answers of the Minister. [[Congratulation with Greens and FPÖ.]] I now come to my analysis of the environmental budget and have to say: There's pretty much everything wrong. [[Abg. Lightenecker: Oh, oh!]] [[Abg. Höfinger: This must be due to the analyses!]] [[Abg. Lightenecker: I don’t believe that!]] We can then compare our analyses, Mr Weninger, but the practical part of the budget is that there are quite specific figures inside and it is relatively objectively evaluable. But why is it wrong? [[Abg. Rädler: That's not Wenninger! You already have a problem with the people! That's my colleague Höfinger!]] Maybe you listen to me and try to understand, and then we can discuss it – I haven't said anything yet. [[Abg. Lichtenecker: Mr Rädler, now leave the colleague Brunner!]] In the environmental budget, quite everything is wrong, first of all, the setting of priorities. In parallel, we are negotiating the agricultural budget and the environmental budget, and if you compare this a little bit, you can see that the agricultural budget remains relatively constant, but the environmental budget is reduced. So, Minister,... – Yes, I do not know how you have it with Plus and Minus, but the figures we have are falling in the environmental budget. [[Federal Minister Rupprechter: It's rising!]] [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the greens.]] For the first time, there has been a wrong set of priorities. Secondly, there is a massively wrong approach in the overall budget, and emissions trading has already been mentioned, which concerns companies. Until a few years ago, companies received free certificates. You can already ask why environmental pollution should be free. In addition: These free allowances were paid from environmental resources, environmental protection. So I think if free certificates already, then they should be paid from the sources of the contaminants, I do not know where they are at home – economy, transport, elsewhere – but it should not be paid for environmental pollution from environmental protection resources. Now, for the first time, we have a situation where revenue from this emissions trading is coming back because the certificates are auctioned. The European Directive would provide that these funds would also benefit from environmental protection measures, climate protection measures, which is actually logical. In the Austrian budget, in the budget of the Austrian Federal Government, this is not foreseen as the revenue is sent in general budget. So that's a wrong access again. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The third thing that's wrong is: We have – I think it is known – a discussion about the objectives, the climate change objectives of the Austrian Federal Government, whether they are ambitious or not. It is because of the objective figures that each individual can make a judgment. So if you have a certain amount of 1990 that goes up pretty steep by 2005, then a little bit down and comes back to the value of 1990 in 2020 and sets itself the goal, then that is not an ambitious climate policy for me. All countries, including Austria, must save greenhouse gases in order to achieve their international commitments. Austria is going back to the start, before the international climate negotiations. So that's not ambitious. In addition, we have the situation that it is not clear whether Austria will achieve this goal for 2020. Even the Austrian Federal Government's programme of action to achieve the climate change objectives – I have already mentioned it the last time – says that only if the existing climate protection instruments are preserved can these objectives be achieved. What does the Austrian Federal Government now present to us in its budget? – Reduction of all climate protection instruments. The thermal rehabilitation is folded to half. By the way, this is not only an environmental measure, but also a major promotion in the economic recovery programme – also by you –. The budget is thus cut to half, the climate and energy funds are reduced by one third, and the domestic environmental funding is reduced by €20 million. I'm asking you now: If your programme of action says that the Austrian climate targets can only be achieved by maintaining the existing measures, on the other hand, the measures are now being deleted, how are they going? – Not at all, because your budget means 2.5 million tonnes more CO2 emissions, 200 gigawatt hours less energy saving, almost half a million less investment in the eco-economic sector, almost 8,000 jobs less. [[Abg. Lightenecker: I can't believe it!]] So I am convinced that we cannot afford to do so, neither from a climate perspective nor from an economic point of view. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The economic perspective has also been confirmed in the last Economic Committee. Prof. Agenger of the WIFO has said quite clearly: If Austria continues to want to remain economically among the top 5 nations in Europe, then we have to recapture our environmental pioneering role – reconquering it, for we have long since ceased to have it. It is our approach to recapture this environmental pioneering role, as a signal towards the economy for an ambitious environmental policy, as a signal also towards the climate conference in Paris, which starts on Monday. Unfortunately, what is available here is a very, very bad signal for the climate conference, and I am convinced of it, and that is why we will certainly continue to fight in Paris. I don't care what's going to happen in Paris. But whatever comes out there, we have to put Austrian climate policy on completely new feet. And that's why it's going to be here in Paris after the conference. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] A very important question, which is actually completely wrong in the overall budget, is the question of climate financing. Climate financing is the crucial issue for the Paris climate conference. The issue is that the industrial nations, the nations that have caused climate change, the poorest of the poor, the developing countries most affected by climate change, help to protect themselves from the consequences of climate change, but also to take climate change measures themselves. Because even if many of them call for a globally binding agreement, it is often heard: No, we can't do anything, we need a globally binding agreement. Yes, but this also means, of course, that developing countries must also commit themselves to reducing greenhouse gases. And of course they say: Why should we do this if you don't support us? You've caused this. That is why this question is so important. The French President Hollande pointed out earlier in September: Without the promised funds, there will be no agreement in Paris. And Nicholas Stern, an economist, just today called for an appeal to the industrial nations to really deliver these funds in Paris. Mr Minister, what I think is wrong with this is that we two have to talk about this question. I agree with you that you can at least talk about it. The Minister of Finance, who is completely blocked here, would be responsible, because these are not environmental funds either. These are funds that we have to pay out of our responsibility, and to do so we need our own budget path, a long-term budget path, so that Austria can also secure its contribution in the long term. However, we do not find this path in the budget. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I think that's a witness to poverty. We have also made several attempts to make a decision in this House. Unfortunately, this has not succeeded. Austria will be under international pressure on this issue. I heard Federal Chancellor Faymann will travel to Paris on Monday. Federal Chancellor Faymann made the promise of Austria in 2009 in Copenhagen. I expect a German chancellor, just from a German chancellor of the Social Democratic Party, to fulfill his promise to the developing countries and to pledge 100 million dollars of fresh, additional money for Austria. [[Abg. Wenninger: Of course!]] I am optimistic about the climate conference in Paris, because there is a lot of international movement from many countries. 160 countries have already pledged their contributions. But I am also convinced that, after the Paris climate conference in the House, we need to talk seriously about a new set-up of Austrian climate and environmental policy. That is why I am convinced that Austria needs an independent, strong and committed Ministry of the Environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e32965	Next speaker: Mr Preiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e32986	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Estimated television viewers at home! On my part, too, a warm welcome! I am referring to agriculture and rural development in my comments. Since, I think, in 2016, the priorities are set correctly in the budget estimate, although I think it is necessary to do and equip some budget items even more financially. In 2016, €2.13 billion is planned in the field of agriculture and rural development, by 0.4 percent less than in the current year 2015. What's this about? What are the objectives? – Strengthening agriculture, rural areas, also through financial strengthening of rural family farms, the auxiliary farmers, at the end of the day also the organic farming industry, but above all also strengthening the direct marketers, strengthening regionality in itself. It is also important to provide the basis for ensuring that rural family farms can continue to produce healthy food and food in Austria in order to ensure food safety. Ladies and gentlemen, fair prices for producers and consumers, this is the challenge for the present, but also for the future. The basis for this is that all of us together also look more closely at the relevant trade chains than perhaps in the past. In short, the budget for agriculture is made up of the first pillar of the market order – a hundred percent EU money – and the financial pot of the second pillar of the rural development programme, which is also equipped with appropriate co-financing by the federal government and the countries. I think a success of the SPÖ is that in 2016 there will be higher funding for young entrepreneurs, but also for investments, but also more money for the mining industry in the difficulty categories 3 and 4. Quality before quantity therefore means – and I would like to stress this again – also strengthening the rural family farms, the ancillary farming and also the organic farms. In order to remain at Bioland number one in the EU, it is necessary to provide Minister Rupprechter, also more money, with more financial resources for organic farming! I would also like to remind you that the 2014 Biotransition measure already contains €830 000 for the financial support of the organic farmers, and would like to urge you, Mr Minister, to make this money available to the organic farmers as quickly as possible. They said in the last Agriculture Committee that we received €7 million from the EU and additional €5 million for damage caused by drought from national resources. In the last Committee on Agriculture, you said that these amounts, in total €12 million, have not yet been paid in the 2016 budget. I would therefore ask you to fix this failure as quickly as possible. I also very much welcome the expansion broadband Internet initiative, for which the Ministry of Transport, Innovation and Technology will make 300 million € available in the coming year, and a small part will also come from the Ministry of Agriculture. In any event, this expansion strengthens sustainable economic competitiveness in the less-favoured rural regions. Finally, I would like to mention the statement made by an ÖVP collegiate at the last meeting on 12 November. In November, agricultural policy could not be a social policy. [[Abg. Höfinger: Wrongly quoted!]] From the point of view of social democracy, of course, one thing is clear: Agricultural policy must always be social policy, to strengthen rural areas, to strengthen rural family farms, to strengthen organic farming. That's the SPÖ. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e33057	Mr Schellhorn. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e33078	Mr President. Dear Minister! With the budget for agriculture and forestry, of course, we also have a special case in my view, which is particularly dependent on a positive common budget pot. I therefore find this positive, and I also believe that the common European agricultural policy is on the right track in all legitimate criticisms. In concrete terms, we speak of 60 percent of the 2016 estimate, which is therefore variable, strongly dependent on payments to EU funds under the common agricultural policy. On the whole, however, in concrete figures, when it comes to agriculture and forestry, it is also interesting what is no longer contained in the objectives of impact: No longer included are the implementation and evaluation of the education and consulting concept in rural areas, companies agriculture 2020 and the campaign “Genuss Region Austria”. Why, is it clear? The Court's criticism was clear, and it was necessary to respond. I should like to quote: “The RH missed a concrete occasion and the definition of quantified efficiency targets by the BMLFUW for the campaign for the benefit region of Austria. He criticised the fact that the BMLFUW granted the annual basic fee for GRM Gesundheits Regios Marketing GmbH without a staff and material cost preview and without a development concept adapted to the actual organisational structure.” Federal Minister Rupprechter has promised restructurings for this, and I can also say that it has already begun. In this respect, this should also be assessed positively. But you all know that it is my personal concern to make the co-operation of agriculture, tourism and gastronomy with strong brand formation a very crucial goal. I would like to repeat once again from the report of the AMA marketing: “More factors are Austria’s reputation as a sustainable production country with high environmental quality and high affinity for natural and traditionally produced foods.” - Quote. That's exactly the point: In what direction should the agricultural country of Austria actually move as a producer of high-quality food? [[Abg. Steinbichler: In the corner!]] We discussed milk, which we discussed last week in the Subcommittee, a high self-sufficiency rate which, on the other hand, forces us to look for markets. We are naturally under strong price pressure, because we compete with countries in which much larger businesses can produce more cost-effective and efficient. We have already debated this in all the details. But one thing is fact: We are passengers in agricultural policy and, above all, in the agricultural market. Price formation takes place on the world market, which is not somewhere, no, dear colleague, the world market is located in the home supermarket shelves. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler]] And that's fact. Therefore, the promotion of niche products, in which one has an exclusive position, is, in my opinion, the right approach to the goal of more innovative products rather than mass. I also believe that a stronger linkage – and you will now guess – of agriculture and tourism is a chance of survival. That's very important. It is also a matter of deciding whether we are making ourselves even more dependent on export markets. As we have seen in the Russian crisis, this can have quite unpleasant consequences for our farmers. But it should go in another direction: that we now recognise at this point in the budget that a better linkage for better marketing for more special products is the only chance of survival to achieve a better yield, and then we should try together. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e33121	Mr Höfinger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e33142	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear young visitors to the gallery! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Environmental policy is on the right track in Austria. Nevertheless, we know that in many areas we continue to face major challenges. Among them are, and this is currently recognizable in many headlines, climate change and the preparation for the climate conference in Paris. The question is: How do we deal with all our resources in the future? What will the energy supply of this country look like in the future? What sustainable steps can we take? Where can we activate and stimulate people to make a positive contribution to environmental protection as a whole? And much more. If you look at this budget, you realize at first glance that many of these measures have been in progress for a number of years and are constantly being developed or re-thinked and launched. What is it about in this environmental budget? What is it all about? – I may only give you a few short keywords so that everyone can understand how extensive this chapter is. Of course, it is about promoting the environment in the country where projects are supported and financed. For example, these so-called UFIs – domestic environmental support – support an investment volume of around €1.17 billion, thus securing or creating 15 000 jobs. It is also a matter of conscious shopping, and waste management can also be seen in a context. It goes down to the radiation protection area, which is also a relevant question for us. It is about the settlement water industry – on the one hand, both water supply and wastewater disposal – and, of course, climate and energy issues that are all relevant in this context. But it is also a matter of agriculture, as has already been mentioned by my previous speakers. If, since yesterday, since the general debate, I have been hearing again and again, budgets have been limited, reduced, then I have to say that you have to see this in an overall context and also understand it. I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to put the facts on the table here as well. Mr Preiner, you said that a colleague from the EIA said that agricultural policy was not a social policy, and I must correct you there. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Preiner.]] That's misquoted, it's never been said. The colleague said that agricultural compensatory payments are not social benefits, and he is right to do so, because these compensation payments are supported by work, as there is investment, money, effort and work. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Preiner.]] This is not a social benefit, someone has done something for it. These are benefits that are simply paid off. – As far as the clarification is concerned. I'm asking you not to mix this. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Preiner.]] The second point is: Agriculture makes a significant contribution to climate protection. I'm just taking out one chapter. For organic farming, i.e. for biological measures throughout the whole, over €440 million is estimated in subheading 42 – that is agriculture. This – we know – is €240 million climate-relevant. Please do not forget that in your calculations! There's something you need to know: To all the budgets managed by the Federal Minister, € 130 million is added from other departments and ministries, which are also climate-related payments, support and funding. So, please count. You don't always get that out! Then there are false representations, and people feel misinformed and are. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the budget – and this may seem terrifying at first glance – is intended for the next year with a total of €627 million; this year it is €643 million. That's a minus of €16 million, that's right. But the Federal Minister has specified this in the Committee's preliminary work. Mrs Glavischnig, you are here now, you, too, emphasized this yesterday. You were not present in the committee, and I do not assume that your colleagues who were present in the committee have not informed you in more detail. The Federal Minister has informed us that although a total of €16 million is less, EU support from the agricultural sector, which will be in addition, will add €24.5 million to this area. He has broken this up into demand. [[Abg. Brunner: What did you do with it?]] The Federal Minister has held the Committee's deliberations, of these additional €24.5 million, €22 million in climate protection measures, €17.1 million in environmental promotion, €5 million in climate and energy funds, and of which €2.5 million in nature conservation and national parks. [[Abg. Brunner: Which one?]] Forget You do not want to do so in the overall view when it comes to the budget and the environmental budget. I can only ask you more for your support so that we can also define further measures in this important area of the department. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e33222	Next item is the report by Mrs Weigerstorfer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e33244	Mr President. Minister! We ask for support – that is what we do when it comes to the environment, of course, everyone likes to do – but support can also be that one draws attention to where something may not be quite optimal. In the budget, we see this in the case of the significant cuts in the area of thermal rehabilitation and the entire climate and energy funds. This does not make sense from the point of view of the environment and also from the economic point of view. It seems that those responsible in the economic or energy sector and the environment have not really worked on a uniform strategy. In fact, the 2030 energy strategy is still lacking in its entirety, and unfortunately some of the energy strategy 2020 measures have not yet been implemented. Savings in climate protection instruments mean more emissions – probably more than we have done in savings by 2020. Although the Minister said that this would not be the case, the reduction in the budget will be offset by additional EU money, namely €24.5 million. In addition, the housing investment bank is to be established, which means that additional economic impulses are hoped for and desired. The emphasis may be on the hope. This is certainly very good, hope is always something fine, but the main component of a responsible policy should also be facts. Indeed, the housing investment bank has already been questioned in the review, and even the Ministry of Finance does not recognize the meaning and purpose of the construction of a housing investment bank and cannot fully understand the 5 billion € of the building volume to be triggered by the Ministry of Economic Affairs. In addition, it is also on the verge of serious constitutional concerns by the Constitutional Service. As often as there are differences of opinion, but within the own political group including the chambers, this, of course, leads on the Austrian solution path very often a little towards the standstill or Austrian compromise solution. We have seen this in particular with the Energy Efficiency Act, in which the Greens, who were the majority in those days, already have some criticisms. [[Abg. Brunner: Not by law, by the decree!]] The law has been in force since the beginning of the year, and the Chamber of Commerce has already drawn a sobering interim balance sheet. I should like to give you a funny example at first glance, but it is less funny for those concerned. If one assumes that a production company is running well, which means that it has to produce more, then, of course, through these higher production figures, electricity consumption also increases. For this the company is then virtually punished – this time only not by the state, but by the energy supplier, because he has committed himself to stopping his customers for energy saving. What happens if the target of minus 0.6 percent per year is not achieved? Then fines are due. Who finally pays them? - The consumer paid. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brunner.]] So you see, in this energy efficiency law, a lot has also gone wrong. I think that there are also some steps taken in the right direction. Austria is always very much highlighted as a pioneer country. Unfortunately, it's not like that anymore. You can see this once again using the donation of the Green Climate Fund. [[Abg. Brunner: This has nothing to do with environmental pioneers!]] For this we have given 25 million US dollars. This is a very minimal amount in international comparison. That's $2.9 per capita. I'm allowed to bring a few comparisons: Sweden has given $60.5 per capita, Germany $12.1, Spain even $3.4 per capita. I can repeat: Austria was worth the total $2.9 per capita. But there is nothing negative without anything positive – and with this I can conclude: At least we already paid for it. So that's something you can be proud of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e33300	Next speaker: Mr Wenninger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e33321	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In order to achieve our large, common political goal – namely to limit the increase in global warming by two degrees – the UN Climate Change Conference in Paris must be a success. We agree on this. I am very grateful for the fact that in the last few days all the criticisms of this positive access have also been articulated by most opposition parties. We must succeed in agreeing a global climate agreement in Paris and establishing a concrete funding path. Only then will all parties be ready to submit these common objectives. Austria and the European Union have put their positions clearly on the table. A reduction path by 2030 of minus 40 percent, Austria and the European Union by 2050 minus 50 percent, and by the end of this century we want a completely decarbonized economy. [[Abg. Brunner: The European Union, not Austria!]] Today, the question arises of how to make the way to COP 21 in a budget debate in the Austrian Parliament. Of course, it is legitimate to play the usual role distribution – government parties counter-opposition. With regard to the Paris conference, however, we could very self-confidently point out as an Austrian delegation that in our Republic there are numerous highly committed, ambitious climate communities and climate regions, which are truly exemplary best practice examples – including for the international community – that we are actually playing a pioneering role in Europe and worldwide in the share of renewable energy – even under the condition of a strict anti-CFC policy – and that we have succeeded in decoupling CO2 emissions from economic development. Negotiations in Paris are expected to be a poker until the last minute. It will be not only about political content but also about funding. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brunner.]] Mrs. Brunner! You have always heard from me that until the last moment we will try to screw up the Austrian contribution as high as it is not only worthy of Austria, but as it is useful in the negotiations. [[Abg. Brunner: No, I have quite another...!]] I say quite clearly to you: There are also countries that legitimately demand financial resources for climate protection, but at the same time are willing to spend many billions of US dollars on arms policy. This discrepancy must also be discussed openly. [[Abg. Brunner: Did you understand anything at the climate conference?- Oh, my God!]] We can now discuss this in the example of India, China or Russia. [[Abg. Brunner: Climate conferences are not a poker game!]] We will not be able to solve the global climate problem through intermediate calls, but through very concrete and really hard political negotiations, where we must succeed in bringing all players to the table. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] As Europe contributes less than 10 percent to global greenhouse gas emissions, we do not make use of it if we fail to bring everyone – from the USA to China – to a table. [[New call for tender Brunner]] [[Calls and appeals between representatives of the ÖVP and Greens.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that a successful climate conference – even beyond the real subject and especially in Paris – would be a strong sign of the world community that we are capable and able to solve global problems together.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e33421	The next item is the speech by Mr Riemer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e33443	Federal Minister! Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I am taking a position on the subject of agriculture. One thing I have heard today is that all the farmers and farmers love and are one. Of course, I always ask myself a question: If you hear the word “rural development” and what is done, I wonder why more and more farmers have to lock their farms, why more and more farmers say that they are locking up when it goes on because they don’t make it any more. I wonder why it is automatically called “rural development” when you know that when the farmers lock up farms, people settle down and walk into the cities, we have a structural problem – that is, in schools, kindergartens, rural communities. So, please, no one's gonna stop you from doing something decent. I just remember that in the last 20 years, 70 000 courts have been lost, roughly one third of the courts. There have been mentions of auxiliary farmers today. Unemployed farmers account for 55.1 percent, and only 37 percent are in the main acquisition. This budget contains nothing to counter it. What are we doing with the auxiliary farmers? Where's the offer for them? – For example, one could reduce the contributions of the workers' chamber or perhaps do something in the obligation to contribute from a certain unit value, because there is a compulsory insurance. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] No one prevents you from doing anything. We know that Austrian farmers have to do a lot not only in the field of the environment, but also in the field of animal welfare. Col. Schultes is not so wrong – I have to say “Hut!” because he mentioned it correctly – when he asks what we do then. It is, I believe, too little to talk about the trade chains. No one could prevent us from adopting a proposal here in Parliament, which we consider to be the barracks, in the hospitals, is worked in all public facilities with food from Austrian production. Why can't we do that? – That’s actually not a question. He's right. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] One thing is clear, and as an animal protectionist, I must say that the person who stands for animal welfare cannot then be punished with cheap goods. It is also necessary to say to the consumer: Dear consumer, you are responsible, you donate on the one hand for “Four paws” or otherwise, and on the other hand you buy cheap goods! If you want to kill our farmers, please continue to buy products from abroad! It can't be. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] I would like to take a small example from Styria – only very briefly, as long as time is enough – so that you can see how pig production has developed in Styria. We have had about three million pigs in Austria. Now it's only 2.8 million. In Styria, 31 percent of the so-called TGD farms – i.e. those working with animal welfare – have to lock up to 31 percent within a few years of four years, because people were not willing to do so. Finally, I would also like to say something about sanctions against Russia: It's just being thrown out like that. Please let us do something – in the diplomatic field et cetera – so that we can handle it! That's a million-height damage, we can't just do it like that. TTIP should also be a topic. Then there is also the gene salmon – thank you for your statement – which is also true of us. [[towards Federal Minister Rupprechter]] Every farmer who locks up with us costs the economy a little, costs the rural region a little. Let us not just talk about the budget, but really set a target for the small farmers' structure! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e33525	The next item is the speech by Mr Sieber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e33546	Mr President. Minister! High house! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! Already during the discussions on the Green Report 2014, we had to find that the income situation in agriculture is a very tense one. Three years in a row, the farmers had to take a reduction in income. If we look at the current market situation – both nationally and internationally – in the various sectors, we cannot expect a rapid and sustainable improvement in the situation. It is all the more important that the rural development programme as well as the direct payments, the first pillar for the 2014 to 2020 programming periods, provide a stable and reliable framework. It is thanks to our minister and his house that his quick action ensures legal and planning certainty for the rural family farms, but in accordance with EU Regulation 1306, payment of the land premium under the CAP would be possible only after completion of the administrative control. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] Also, due to the implementation of the new system in the AMA and the extension of the application deadline of the multiple application until mid-June 2015, a Regulation-compliant payout in autumn 2015 is not possible. Due to the currently difficult market situation in various sectors and also because of the drought situation last summer, many businesses need this money, but they need it very urgently. Our Minister has, therefore, made it possible for a special directive to be adopted, which makes it possible to make a payment from both pillars to the establishments this year. In total, €713 million has already been transferred to the farms this year. The rest of the funds will then be paid to farmers at the correct date in April 2016. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress once again: The farmers need this money, and these payments are urgently needed at the moment! [[Abg. That's right!]] Mr Minister, I would like to thank you and your House for responding in good time to the fact that you quickly recognized the problem and reached an unbureaucratic solution for farmers in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e33601	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e33622	Thank you to the colleague Sieber. Mr Sieber rightly pointed out that farmers have had a reduction in income for three years. I agree with this analysis. In other things, I have a different view, which I will also be happy to bring to you. Maybe at the beginning: What is fact? – The fact is that there is no budget item in this federal budget, which is so strongly influenced by European policy. The share of the EU budget, which is involved here, which is related to the first and second pillar, is just over €1.5 billion, and that is 72 percent of the total agricultural budget. So more than 70 percent are EU-related programmes and funds – first and second pillar. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact is that we have a crisis in the agricultural policy, especially because there are these cuts in incomes that have led to the task of 24 000 farms over the last ten years. Without public funds, farmers have agricultural incomes from production, incomes minus expenditures, on average just €2 700 a year. You have to let that break on your tongue! – And 20.5 percent of businesses even have negative income without public funds. So it is a real crisis, Mr Federal Minister, to which you have to respond, namely by changing the agricultural policy direction. You will now ask yourself: Is this even possible if 70 percent of EU programmes are EU funds? Yes, ladies and gentlemen, the last reform of the CAP has given the Member States many, many possibilities for an independent design. I take an example: The EU has said that the Member States can, of course, promote the first 30 hectares of each holding better than the remaining hectares. In other words, a shift in funding within the support system is foreseen by the EU. Mr Federal Minister, I asked you in the committee if you would at last make use of this opportunity to strengthen small and medium-sized enterprises which have higher social security contributions in relation to their operations, which are particularly threatened to give up the operation. You have said, no, you will not do, and this is unfortunately one of the great failures of this agricultural budget that is present. [[Interim remark by Federal Minister Rupprechter]] As far as you are concerned, Mr Federal Minister, I must also say to you: I'm very disappointed! I have not found in this budget an effective objective of “enhancement of organic farming”, there was no indication that this is a special objective of effect. Why is that particularly remarkable? . We have just discussed milk prices in the subcommittee and know that in Austria there are significantly more than 40 cents in the organic milk sector, but the conventional price is 10, 11 or 12 cents below. The market is asking for organic milk, but this is not considered to be an effective goal in your budget to explicitly increase the bio share. However, to increase exports is very likely to be an effect in your budget. There you see: That's your strategy! They want to export more on world markets, by 10 percent, between 2015 and 2020. Very reasonable, say the colleagues of the ÖVP. Well, I heard that, but the farmers have a different opinion, Mr Sieber, right. [[Abg. Sieber: Hey, I didn't say that!]] So you distance yourself from this statement of colleagues? I think that's a positive indication, very good. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] - Thank you for your colleague, Sieber. Mr Sieber distances himself from the export orientation of the Austrian agricultural policy. We have thus found a new colleague in the alliance for greater justice, for more social orientation and for a genuine circular economy in agriculture. That's what I'm going to remember, I'm particularly happy. Ladies and gentlemen, the challenges that exist, however, one can also find colleagues... [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP.]] Obviously a new agricultural policy dispute in the ÖVP. You obviously don't agree where you want to go. We will continue to discuss this in the Committee on Subcommittee, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, and you still have enough time to deliver your opinions there. Mr Bundesminister, TTIP is the key issue for many farmers over the past few weeks and months, and I would like to give you today the opportunity to make a clear commitment to this. The farmers of the Austrian Mining Association have launched an initiative, “Farmers & Farmers Against TTIP”, calling for resistance. [[The speaker shall keep up-to-date a brochure of the above-mentioned initiative.]] I ask you here and now to support this petition online. They have already supported everything, but this would have been taken seriously once. Let us look at those who are fighting for the future of agricultural agriculture, and not for the export industry, so to speak, to pursue its policy. Put yourself on the side of the mountain farmers!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e33703	The next speaker is Mr Sub-brancher. - Ah, you're not finished yet? All right, then go on. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e33736	Mr President, I have only given the card to the Minister. I have another concern, ladies and gentlemen, namely the World Food Programme. It is about the international obligation to help the poorest of the poor around the world, where it is about hunger. That's a position, Account 78008142, and in this 2016 budget estimate an amount of zero is actually set for the FAO or for the World Food Programme. Mr Federal Minister, who you are presenting us with documents, here in this Parliament, I expect you not to present a paper here in such sensitive areas as the World Food Programme, where in such a fragile situation as is now being reduced to zero. That's your proposal, that's your budget you've presented! And that is simply a shame, ladies and gentlemen, a shame for this policy which does not deserve to be called socially or ecologically. A real shame! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is a command of the hour, ladies and gentlemen, and I expect you to agree to this request. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e33814	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place, and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e33878	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Unterrainer. - Please. [[Abg. Kogler: (in the direction of the Abg. Underrunner) Get out of your Lord's corner of hypocrisy!]] [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] Mr Kogler, I give you a call for order for this call. [[Calls to the Greens.]] I would ask for rest so that the honourable Member can start with his remarks. Please, Mr Unterrainer.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e33935	Mr President, at the beginning I would just like to say: I came to stay, at least 2 minutes, so please understand. What would we be without our miners, without our mountain farmers, what would we be without our pastures? Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Values Watchers on the ranks and in front of the screens at home! 80 percent of the agricultural land in Austria accounts for so-called disadvantaged agricultural areas and 20 percent for so-called alpine areas. Only do these figures give relatively little to them alone. that, how great the importance of our miners and mountain farmers really is, because you have to imagine, without our miners, there would be no alpine meadows, no hiking areas or the typical regional specialties – all things that express the interconnectedness that actually make Austria to Austria. But only by hard work of the miners and mountain farmers can all this be done, and not often enough thanks can be said for that. It is incredible what these people are doing in our territories, especially in Tyrol. You have to imagine that everything is done by hand, because simply the use of devices due to the steepness and the situation of the surfaces is not possible. We have already come relatively far, we have already improved the situation of our mountain farmers, but it is not as yet as it should be. We are not yet, above all, where we belong, namely that the output of farmers will be paid accordingly. I am pleased that this draft budget has adapted the resources for the miners and their income situation has been slightly improved, but we must, as has been said, go a long way. It is important that, in the 2016 impact target, it is also clearly defined as the objective not only of balancing and imbalance between men and women in the rural sector, but also of defining the equality of opportunities for development for men and women in rural areas. As a tourist speaker, I know: Many guests from Germany and abroad come only because we can really offer our dreamy alpine landscapes. Maybe back to the beginning, to the asked question of me, which we would be without miners: This question, I think, is quite, very difficult to answer, but one is certain: Only with the miners and the mountain farmers are we what we are, that is, a beautiful land worth living and loving. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e33986	Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Rupprechter will now deliver an opinion. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e34008	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to go into the 2016 budget for agriculture and forestry and water management, UG 42, as the agenda is such. In addition, we are pleased to note that, despite the very strict consolidation course of the Austrian Federal Government, we have succeeded in keeping it close to the same level compared to 2015. The budget focuses on five priorities: firstly on the sustainable development of a viable rural area, on the protection from natural hazards, on securing water resources as a basis of life for man and nature, which is also part of the climate change adaptation strategy, on the sustainable strengthening of the forest habitat – the forest is the largest CO2 sink and thus a very active contribution to climate protection – and fifthly on the education and training. In the agriculture and forestry sector, implementation of the reform of the Common Agricultural Policy is scheduled for 2014 to 2020, and last year we adopted the relevant Market Regulation Act Novelle here in the House. Austria has succeeded in maintaining the system of direct payments and rural development as a reliable planning instrument for the Austrian farmers. Mr Pirklhuber, with €1 280 million, there are indeed a lot of EU funds, and your criticism is not quite understandable, because on the contrary: We have achieved that we are in the first and second pillars together in the meantime net recipients from the agricultural pots. And I would like to make the accusation that we have successfully negotiated it in Brussels. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Austria is committed to a sustainable, including organic farming of our farms, to a broad environmental programme and to the management of disadvantaged areas. The programme also contains a very thick set of measures, such as the investment measures that we have increased by 25 percent in order to make our agricultural sector more innovative, professional and also competitive. However, there are also measures in the social field, namely social services, because the principle of solidarity, which I feel committed to, is also a principle of sustainability. The fight against poverty and inclusion in rural areas are important options in these programmes. In 2016, around € 850 million was spent on EU and federal funds for the rural development programme. Together with the state resources, this programme is thus available annually for the development of rural areas. This corresponds to the same size as in the previous period. In 2016, the EU's market organisation measures amount to €718 million, of which €693 million is estimated for direct payments. A further €7 million, which is not included in the Federal estimates, will be provided by the EU for market measures in the pig and milk sectors 2016. In 2016, around €21 million will be available for additional national funding in the global budget of agriculture and rural areas. This sum will be used for national support in the field of quality improvement, production change, plant production, animal husbandry, bio-organisations under the Bio Action Programme, advice, research and AIK. Also due to the drought events of recent years and especially this year, additional funds from the federal budget will be available for pilot projects to develop a risk insurance scheme in the sense of crop insurance in 2016. The possibility of drought insurance will already exist for the 2016 harvest. In the field of protection against natural hazards, water resources and forest – and as mentioned above, contributions to the climate adjustment strategy – total € 206 million for the global budget for forestry, water resources and natural hazards management, and additional € 32 million from the disaster fund will be added. The improvement of the protection of rural settlements is an important work impulse in the context of construction contracts. The ongoing collection of water quality and measures for water conservation are further priorities in this area, as well as the conservation of forests, forest planning and forest development. A very important priority in my agricultural budget is education, training and training. Around 12 per cent of the agricultural budget without taking into account EU funding will be implemented to train agricultural and forestry managers in the eleven higher educational institutions to which research institutions are also associated. In this area, we have been able to expand the budget in spite of savings, i.e. € 101 million, which will be added by € 41 million annually for the costs of the national teachers. In addition, €16 million per year for training and training programmes are available as part of rural development. This is important to me because investment in the minds is the best investment in the future. Mr Pirklhuber, on the World Food Programme you have referred to: Today, I will transfer € 5 million to the World Food Programme, the funds will be exempt from the financial sector in the meantime, and we will, of course, continue to comply with this commitment, also in line with the common resolution of this House. The Austrian Federal Government will reprint the order. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now let me come to the UG 43, the classic environmental budget. As a starting point for the creation of the environmental budget, the Federal Financial Framework Act was adopted here at the Hohen Haus for 2016 to 2019. Through intensive negotiations with the Minister of Finance, I was able to achieve an increase of €12 million for climate protection measures for the proposal, so that €628 million are now available. While the Federal estimate is lower compared to the previous year by €16 million, the budget cuts are not made linearly, but in different sub-areas and are aligned according to the needs of the disbursement. [[Abg. Brunner: For example, in climate protection!]] It has already been put right, Mr Höfinger, whom I would like to expressly thank for having succeeded in making the budget cut more than bet by providing EU funds. For example, € 25 million will be available in 2016, which will not be found in the environmental budget, but will be available for successful environmental policy as a whole. In fact, Mrs Brunner, there are more funds available than before. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brunner.]] Now also on international climate finance: Austria is already making an adequate contribution to international climate financing – and we have really put it in detail in the Committee on Budgets – € 130 million a year. This is neither embarrassing nor small, as you like to say, Mrs Brunner. Don't talk about the benefits of Austrian taxpayers! This is a strong contribution that we are making to international climate finance. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As regards the initial capitalization of the Green Climate Fund: That's where we promised 25 million US dollars. We are one of the first to have this – Mrs Von Weigerstorfer, thank you for the correct position! – already paid €6 million. Austria has thus ensured the operational capacity of this fund. In addition, € 12 million is available for international climate financing in 2016. Of these, €10 million will be transferred next year in addition to the $25 million. My aim is to make this amount available annually by the 2020 period as a whole. That is, Mrs Brunner, with this additional donation, we are doing almost what you have given us here as a bar of measurement. So I think that we do not need to put our light under the Scheme, but have made a really proactive contribution to the Green Climate Fund. Now on the € 91 million shown in the budget concerning thermal renovation, environmental promotion in the country: I should like to point out that additional €17 million is available on EU funds. In environmental policy, we are taking the successful path of co-financing our programmes by EU funds to obtain EU funds. A third of the national funds are used for the thermal rehabilitation project, with additional resources being provided by the economic sector. The reduction in these budget items was also made in view of the federal housing bank created by the federal government, which was adopted yesterday in the Federal Government as a government proposal. As regards the reductions in investment volume, CO2 effects and energy efficiency in the Federal estimates, it should be noted that this presentation does not include the shown EU-wide surplus resources. As far as the climate and energy funds are concerned, the €37.5 million and €5.5 million are available for EU funds corresponding to the 2015 annual programme. After the adoption of the annual programme, we will be able to ensure, after the budget has been completed, how much liquidity is needed in the climate and energy funds. But the funds can be made available in the same size. [[Abg. Brunner:... not particularly sustainable!]] With regard to sustainable nature and environmental measures, national parks and nature conservation, €12 million – as much as 2015 – are available. EU funding in this area is €2.5 million, with which we can finance other nature conservation projects. The federal funds of €11.4 million continue to provide measures for sustainable waste management to reduce the flow of substances to health and environmental chemicals. The budgeting of the old load recovery takes place at €55 million in the amount of the expected assigned revenue on old load contributions. This will continue the successful path of old-age rehabilitation and the elimination of risks to people and the environment. This could also be ensured and budgeted in terms of urban water management. In addition, funding commitments of € 100 million for drinking water supply and wastewater disposal can be made in 2016. So you see, the environmental policy of the Federal Government is a successful, ambitious and targeted one. I hope you will consider it again and perhaps agree with this very ambitious budget. - Thank you, Hohes Haus.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e34102	Mrs Brunner, just mentioned, spoke on an actual amendment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e34126	Mr President. The Minister said in his speech: Austria provides € 130 million for international climate financing. This can be done if you want to. [[Federal Minister Rupprechter: No, it is!]] But it is wrong. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] It is unfair that these are fresh and additional funds, just as is required for climate negotiations. The € 130 million are funds that are already running, where climate aspects are now being searched and which receive the mesh of climate finance. Fresh and additional funds from Austria are only €20 million over four years plus the unique 12 million, as we discussed in the Budget Committee, next year. [[Federal Minister Rupprechter: I just explained!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] This is insufficient compared with other countries.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e34198	That was one. Only the introduction was a little insidiously chosen, I would say. [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] I call Mr Pock. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e34228	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! Estimated "PaMis"! Before I go into the budget, I would also like to take a very brief look at the correctness of Mrs Brunner. It was not correct in so far as the content was wrong. [[Cheerfulness and demonstrative applause with the ÖVP.]] The Green Climate Fund is one of several tools to stop climate change. Only the Green Climate Fund is concerned with these 100 billion US dollars, which is about fresh resources. All other measures can include development cooperation and many other measures. Whether that is right or wrong; but that would be the fact once, and I would have liked it to be. [[Abg. Brunner: I have everything double and triple...!]] To the budget itself: I am responsible for NEOS in several budgets and have to say that the environmental budget was the most uncritical and the most widely accepted. Why do I say that? – The main issue of the budget debate is, of course, the following: How are the funds used? How much have they decreased or increased? And could you do better in general? – We looked at several points, but in general there was no substantial criticism, and all the questions were answered. However, I would like to address this question when we look at the environmental budget and see what major challenges we are currently facing in Austria: How far does the Ministry of the Environment go? . I would say that the three main points are from my point of view the labour market, economic growth and climate change. In the labour market, Mr Minister, I probably understood your calculation of the fact that the reduction in the budget in the field of thermal rehabilitation is, in fact, absorbed by European funds. Now you can say the 100 million that have been available last year – or rightly: 105 million – will be available in approximately the same size in the next year. But what I don't understand is: The government has always said that this is an essential lever to actually create jobs. So, as it were, my access would have been: If I have a tool with which I can actually create jobs, then I do not stick to the state of things like last year, but I raise accordingly, because I have a direct answer to generate jobs. The second point, which I do not think is understandable, which we have discussed in the Committee, is the question of objectives in the Ministry of the Environment. They have set themselves the goal of increasing Green Tech jobs and environmental jobs to 200 000 by 2018, and they have also coupled impact targets, for example in the field of exportation of environmental goods and technology. We set the goal for 2016 to be as good as in 2014. This is not sufficiently ambitious if I say that I want to achieve something in the field of labour market and economic growth. The third point, which I would like to address even more in detail now, is the question of the Green Climate Fund and climate change. You know my position that we would have wanted much more, comparable to Switzerland, not comparable to Sweden. We have heard again today: It is the 25 million US dollars you have originally announced, and another 12 million are currently in the budget. This is not even half of what Switzerland will do. I understand that the environmental budget itself is not enough to raise the whole. What I do not understand, however, is the lack of ambition to actually act in other areas. They even took the CO2 tax into play at the “press hour” on Sunday. There is currently no pressure from the Ministry of the Environment towards the Ministry of Finance that environmental taxes are indeed designed in such a way that they (a) do not lead to any additional burden, but (b) actually tax and (c) can also serve as counter-funding for the Green Climate Fund. At this point, I have to tell you, I expect much more commitment in the future. My speaking time is about to come to an end, I would like to make one more point. Where we really depend on cooperation with the federal states in the target values, we fail, whether it is in terms of land use, whether it is in terms of resource productivity – i.e., productivity decoupled from actual resource consumption – and also in terms of biodiversity, in terms of maintaining our environment our descendants. I also expect a lot more than before. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e34271	The next speaker was Mr Eßl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e34292	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Agriculture and forestry is an important pillar for the economy in Austria. Of course, the list of priorities for food production and the safeguarding of the supply of best food for people. It has already been mentioned: Of course, the home market is the most important. But I say, Mr Pirklhuber, that exports are also important. [[Abg. Pirklhuber:... not contradicted! It is about the objectives of action!]] – Actually, you disagree yourself. We know exactly that 40 percent of the organic milk produced in Austria is exported. That means as an alternative: If you want it to be even more organic farmers, each litre of additional organic milk will have to be exported or sold domestically at conventional prices. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: These figures are not proven by the statistics!]] You should consider this if you are opposed to the Minister's initiative on export. Our farmers, however, also provide a wide range of environmental services beyond the actual, causal production. These benefits must be paid by public authorities. Three-quarters of the farms participate in the environmental programme or in the Bio measure, with 86.7% of the Austrian agricultural area. In addition, many farms have difficult production conditions. Over 60 000 farms, for example, are mining plants, and these have only one chance if they are supported accordingly. That is why we need a well-educated agricultural budget. €2,135 billion is planned for 2016, most of it also comes directly to farmers. 2,135 billion €, this may appear a lot at the first moment, but we know that 1.28 billion of them come from Brussels, 290 million € from the federal government. If we add the € 190 million that comes from the countries, we must say that, starting from € 290 million in federal funds, € 1.76 billion a year comes to the farmers! That's, I think, a performance we don't need to hide. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, the benefits of farmers are also worth it in all cases that they receive this payment with good reason. I would also like to thank the Minister that he has succeeded this year in an exceptional situation – new programme and many uncertainties – that a large part of the money still comes to the farmers. That's not the way it is elsewhere. I quote here an interview given by Landesrat Schuler in South Tyrol: “The South Tyrol farms have been waiting longer for the payment of various premiums for the years 2014 and 2015. The premiums for 2014 now go a little further: As the Landesrat Arnold Schuler reports to the ‘South Tyrol Farmer’, by the end of the year some 40 million will be transferred to the farms... Only in the course of the coming year can the advance payments for agricultural world premiums, compensatory allowances and farm premiums be made in 2015. When exactly, this is not yet fixed.” In contrast, our farmers in Austria can always rely on the fact that the whole money actually comes. I would like to thank you very much, Mr Minister, for the fact that we are on the road better than all of Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e34348	Mr Steinbichler is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e34370	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and in front of the televisions! Mr Eßl has just spoken in praise. I think you haven't talked to practitioners for a long time. But that's not a problem. [[The speaker presents some pictures and objects to the speaker's desk.]] In the first place, I would like to thank the farmers who, despite this ugly price situation, are ready to do their work in all sectors, from wood to fruit, to milk, to meat. I would like to appeal here that we become aware of the seriousness of the situation. It really hurts when you hear how hard it is to talk about the situation. But the proverbial hat burns! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I have therefore taken this picture with us, so that we can come to the subject of the flow of goods. [[keeping a photograph of a container ship in height]] We discussed refugees on the subject of economics. We have also repeatedly discussed the need to combat action. Like climate protection: Use a lot of money, but don't do anything! The decisive thing is that: We have a lot of warm air in climate protection – and the “green crown” has brought it to the fore. Since 1978, environmental conferences have been taking place – I think that is certainly very amusing for the participants – but it is not enough to tell, it counts the achievements – and that is zero! We're falling back, the environmental situation is getting worse. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] When you look at the weekend supplement of the “Salzburger Nachrichten”, you know what’s going on: this terrible picture with the dried up, torn ground, with the poor native, who stands on it barefoot and then unfortunately becomes an economic refugee. [[Abg. Heinzl: We already know that!]] He's not becoming a war refugee, he's becoming an economic refugee. I thought I was taking a picture with you here to explain a bit like the food we import, economic refugees are born and we are also affected. This is nothing but an Indian water buffalo driven by an Indian Indian Indian Indian, with a fist of sugar cane. [[keeping a photograph in height]] We'll take this sugar cane on the ground. Whether soy or palm oil, we take the basis of life in all areas! He's already on his way as a refugee, he's already with the economic refugees. And in the next five, six weeks – now we need the ship again for a short time – the water buffalo is delivered and then delivered as beef in Austria. [[Again keeping the photography of the container ship in height]] Friends, this is the economy we operate! We don't need to talk about this: This will kill any regional production. There's no chance, except for those who speculate here, except for those who really make a lot of money. And then they should be asked for the cash desk – these groups that speculate here on the back of the practitioners! With the tax models, they've always managed to get out. They should, however, be asked to pay for these costs. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I do not want to address this – because the money was spoken of, Minister, whom you brought home from Brussels: 7 million, you double them. Please, if you could explain here in this House to colleagues where the money is going! That would be interesting. I can guarantee you one thing: not in the farms! That would be interesting, as Mr Hofinger has recently thanked the Green Report for the advance payments. Now we have shortened the pledged compensatory payments, and now we are talking about advance payments at once! Yes, please, can you explain the bad mood of the farmers at the farm? - I do. Speak to them, then you know how fatal the situation really is! Second point: The funds in question, the compensatory payments, do not come to the farms for the most part. This needs to be clarified, and I think that is the starting point why energy drinks are conducted in food export statistics, for example. Please, what does this have to do with our farms? – You have to explain where the sweeteners come from. I believe that financial compensation will be a topic of its own in rural areas. Then we will experience what reality really looks like. The surplus lie is quite easy to explain, and this is very interesting – I have to take it with you, because many people didn't believe and said: That doesn't exist, it must be a confusion! –: That's the surplus, it's rainforest pure! [[Keep a pack of margarine in height]] Pure rain forest, excellent with guaranteed Austrian quality, with Austrian quality seal. And – the Lord God is there for His sleep – this afternoon I think: There's no such thing as that, all organic in the canteen, wonderful! Ladies and gentlemen, today you have looked at a hundred percent of the menu. [[keeping a food and drink card in height]] “Gourmet” and – there is no such thing as this: This is the same organic seal as on palm oil! This is a universal seal, I think. We will then also take that for TTIP products. – That is unbearable! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Mr Minister, if I look at this card like this: There is then a bio-cola, a bio-almdudler, a bio-red bull, a bio-romer source, a soda water. But of 45 drinks, only four are really organic. So on this page this seal has lost nothing! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] So please, Minister, don't go that much abroad. Today, President Auer has explained it to me. Now I'm getting pretty slowly aware of your desire to travel. You have caused around €890,000 in costs with your travels. The successes are very poor. In reply we have learned from Mrs Oberhauser that no kilo has yet been exported to China, but you have had yourself celebrated for the great successes with the President of the State. [[President Bures takes over the presidency again.]] Of course, it is nice to see as a Minister of Agriculture that in Japan milk costs 2 €. This is wonderful, and now, I think, the work is also commissioned: We need to see that we get fair prices in Austria. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Abg. Obernoster: The speaking time is off, the light shines...!]] Mr. Obernosterer, you've been reporting at the right time. Of course you knew what was coming. That's not a food label. [[a table on which three seals are depicted: Protected geographical indication, Protected designation of origin, Guaranteed Traditional specialty, keeping in height]] That's done away with! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Obernosterer.]] We have tabled an application because this “PGI” sign leads to the deception of consumers because the product does not come from the region. It is enough when it is processed in the region, and that is very bad for the gastronomy. Imagine being deceived, and then you'll be held accountable by a guest. [[in the direction of the Abg. Upper Noster]] This should be changed in a verifiable food label, in the course of the TTIP discussion, in the course of the international discussions, Mr Minister. [[Abg. Wheeler:... China Restaurant!]] A short approach to the environment: Biodiesel is used to treat 13 000 hectares of rainforest in Austria. How can you explain this in Paris at the environmental conference if someone asks you there if that's true? - That's awful. We deal with the Austrian fuel, with the biodiesel, rain forest. That is how we destroy the valuable word “bio. ” The Quintessence from all over the story is... [[Abg. Rädler: How was that in your China restaurant?]] Mr Rädler, perhaps you will go to the Committee on Agriculture. We will discuss the Austrian quality seal law next time. This is the only way we can finally treat all the problems we have here today, especially those on the consumer side, with fairness, that where Austria is on it, Austria is in it and we are implementing this quality seal. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler]] [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Finally, Mr Minister, I should like to make a motion for a resolution on the report on imports of oils and fats. This is interesting: For a farm, if a cow does not have two earmarks, there will be a farm block and everything will be allowed to happen on the free market, that is why the motion for a resolution. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I am convinced that all the speakers and the other colleagues will agree today. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] In order to ensure that, in the field of nutrition, climate, environment, health and employment, we finally come to a secure policy. [[Abg. Eßl: But go!]] We're asking for support.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e34581	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e34643	Next speaker: Mrs Ecker. [[Abg. Steinbichler: (in leaving the speaker's desk a panel on which Maden is depicted in a cube, holding in height) That's the taste of...!]] [[Abg. Rädler: These are your currynudels!]] Now Mrs Ecker is speaking. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e34693	Madam President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values Advisors! First of all, I would like to thank you, Minister. Your criticism of the current state of play of the TTIP Free Trade Agreement can only be accepted. But, Minister, as much as I am It is a matter of urgency at TTIP. I still lack the will to change in a number of points in the budget. Fewer and fewer people work in agriculture. It is obvious that this is closely linked to the fact that income is very unfairly distributed in this area. A small farmer deserves a sixth of a large farm, and this, Mr Minister, cannot remain that way. I think we need to put more quality here before the quantity, such as the suspension of the milk quota, it is certainly not the right way. The majority of the farms can be found in the mountain areas. These can never keep up with a large company in production. Especially for these mountain farmers, I would like more support here. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Jannach.]] Although many things have already happened, there is also a clear recognition of the Social Democratic manuscript, but we are not yet at Zenit. To my previous speaker, Mr Eßl: Yes, we wish for more organic farmers in this country, and they do not only produce milk, you should actually know that. sen. The organic farmers produce great niche products and very, very great, high quality products. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to highlight broadband development very clearly and positively. For this, €300 million will be estimated for next year. This is a very important support for people in rural areas and especially small and medium-sized enterprises in the countryside. I would also like to thank the fact that next year more resources will be available for climate protection and protection from natural disasters. In my opinion, it is quite, very important that we as a state invest in infrastructure, this creates jobs and also receives purchasing power. Overall, I see some negative points, but also improvement potential, and of course I am pleased about the improvements in the budget. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e34753	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Hauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e34774	Madam President. Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The Minister is also substantially responsible for the protection against natural hazards, and I would like to make a few comments on this. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] It has already been correctly noted today that our farmers, our miners, are making a significant contribution to the conservation of the cultural landscape and thus create the conditions for preventing disasters, environmental disasters, in many areas. For this, our farmers deserve a great deal of thanks, because this means that the rural area can also be preserved. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP]] But that's too little. You know, it's not a year without a major natural disaster, unfortunately it's more and more God's. For example, only the Sellrain Valley in Tyrol, which this year has been hit by a major natural disaster, needs to be thought of in order to know how important cultivation measures are in the rural area at all. In its report of three years ago, the Federal Court of Auditors has even dealt with this issue in its “adapting to climate change at the level of the countries of Salzburg and Tyrol”. Among other things, the Federal Court of Auditors has stated that it is necessary for Tyrol and Salzburg, for example, to develop regional climate models in order to address these changes in climate change and take the right steps to prevent natural disasters. For example, he has called for the necessary flood-retention rooms to be provided. He has called for a review of the risk zone plans to know where the areas at risk are particularly in the federal states of Tyrol and Salzburg. There, where Bauland is very scarce, one needs to know where to build without the buildings being threatened, where to put in place cultivation measures, so that one may also be able to create new housing. All of this is important issues in this area. Among other things, he called for progress to be made on the renovation projects for the protection forest. I say quite honestly, if the Federal Court of Auditors deals with these problems, then it is five to twelve years ago, because otherwise the Federal Court of Auditors would have the Court of Justice, which normally deals with projects leading up to large investments, does not deal with these areas. Mr Minister, we really appreciate the commitment, but – now the big but – you have published a book (keeping a book in height): “130 years of Wildbach and avalanche cultivation”, in the self-publishing of the Wildbach and avalanche cultivation. Under the title “Visions”, a contribution was printed by your department, which I would like to quote here, according to the motto: Weird the beginnings. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to listen to this because statements have been made that really scare. I quote from this report: Vision – Look into the future: “The Wildbach and avalanche cultivation has always brought protection in rural areas and enables a life and economy to the remotest alpine side valleys. This is still supported by social policy with a lot of tax money. If you look a little more precisely, there are very large differences in small space. In addition to economically flourishing valleys, very poor valleys exist in Austria, but their mostly elderly population has the same claim of protection and wants to receive the same protection lines as every citizen and every citizen. Especially in such valleys, entire systems of cultivation are often used for renewal and restoration. In the light of the megatrends of urbanisation, we have to ask ourselves seriously whether public funds for protection measures with an average lifetime of 80 years are actually used in these areas. From my point of view, we urgently need a common development of strategies and orientations,” – now it comes, and that scares me – “how and where we want to live safely in the future and which areas can be left to nature.” Mr. Minister, that was published in its own language. This sentence means to me: We think seriously about it in those rural areas that have a population wound and where there is a poorer population to stop growing these areas, and we must not do so. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Minister, stop these considerations, and continue to invest massively in cultivation, in rural protection measures.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e34860	The next item is the speech by Mr Gahr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e34881	Madam President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The 2016 agricultural budget of €2.135 billion brings us security, stability and guarantee for agriculture and rural areas. It will be possible to pay back benefits, and it will be possible to finance projects. Thanks to national funds – I think Austria is exemplary in this respect – it is possible that we could pick up €1.28 billion from Brussels and invest here in Austria. I thank Mr Rupprechter for this. I think we can see ourselves there compared to other countries. The “Agricultural Development Programme” is worth €1.1 billion, bringing innovation and impetus to new areas and new developments. Mr Hauser! Yes, the Wildbach and avalanche plantation is an indispensable facility and will also be spent in 2016 with considerable resources of € 180 million. and in addition, € 32 million from the disaster fund. In this way, I believe, we are making substantial resources available for the protection of people and for security in rural areas. The production of wildlife and avalanche is a flexible and powerful facility for protection and assistance in rural areas. As a Tyrolean, I can say thank you today. In 2015, there were two major disasters in Tyrol – in Paznaun and in the Sellraintal – and there everything is currently being restored. These are also valleys that are not necessarily touristy equipped, and yet people are actively and sustainablely helped. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] By 2030, the share of renewable energy is to be increased from currently 32 percent to 50 percent, and I think there is still more wood in the local forests to use the sustainable resource biomass. It is also positive – and I believe the Federal Minister in the past has proved this – that it is possible to save internally. 5 million € were saved, for 2016 it is planned to save a further € 4 million in the administration by reorganisation. From my point of view, the agricultural budget 2016 has three priorities: It is possible that in Austria we produce food that is comprehensive and resource-saving. It is possible that we are developing our rural area in a sustainable way. And it is possible that we serve the environment by protecting the environment, soil, water, air and landscape, and thus preserving it worth living. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e34938	Next item is the report by Mr Willi. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e34960	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Minister, I appreciate that you would like to go into Austrian political history, so to speak, in a series with the ministers Riegler, Fischler and then Rupprechter. [[Federal Minister Rupprechter: You forgot two!]] At present, you are a bit far away, although the framework conditions would be optimal for you. We are just ahead of the Paris climate conference and you could go there and finally make clear and effective promises and promises. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wheeler.]] They could represent and announce that Austria will again become an environmental model country. We have very good conditions. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We have a very well-developed hydropower. We still have great potential in wind, especially in the sun, then in global warming, at biomass, and we have a population, Mr Minister, who places great importance on having clean air, clean water and very high-quality food produced as ecologically as possible. [[Federal Minister Rupprechter: Also at the water!]] [[Federal Minister Rupprechter: Also at the water!]] That means the population would be on your side if you said in Paris: Austria needs to become the environmental model country number one in Europe again! Yes, Mr. Minister, where is your train to the gate? – The ball is, as it were, at the Elfmeter point, and you just had to enter it, but you don't. I would now like to document this on the basis of an example: Mr Minister, you said in the Environment Committee that the diesel privilege is not to be kept. [[Federal Minister Rupprechter noddt.]] - Thank you, you confirm it again. Diesel has a higher energy content than petrol. This is a reason to tax diesel higher than petrol. This is not the case in Austria. Diesel provides higher nitrogen oxide emissions, higher CO2 emissions and more fine dust – a good reason to tax diesel higher than petrol. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Austria is not. Diesel is less taxed than petrol. Two good reasons to abolish the diesel privilege and ensure that this unsustainable preference of this fuel has an end. By means of two facts, they have enormous protective aid to abolish the diesel privilege: First, Austria in 2013 with 136 000 tonnes of NOx emissions was almost 30 percent higher than what the EU has promised us. 30 percent above value, we are, so to speak, dirty bounds in NOx emissions. Only six countries in the EU are above the permitted maximum levels, Austria is in the middle below. [[Federal Minister Rupprechter: That is why we are now doing the sectoral driving ban!]] – Yes, well, that’s You support the sectoral ban, that is right, but that is too little. Secondly, the huge exhaust fraud scandal is currently running. You'd never had so many people on your side if you said: So and now we're going to end this scam with this thing. We did the right thing, we put the diesel where he belongs. He's one of the dirt fins, so he's a higher tax. Austria has reported to the EU in January – I quote: ‘In the meantime, measurements have shown that real emissions of diesel cars are almost the same as those of passenger cars prior to the introduction of the emission rules (pre-EURO I).’ That means you knew in January, the whole thing is a mogel party. But nothing has yet happened – except to wait for what the Germans are doing. Minister, it is in your hands to go into the history of Austrian agriculture and the environment ministers. Finally, do something against the diesel privilege! They therefore make a huge contribution to environmental protection in Austria. Finally, take the train to the gate, dive into the ball at the Elfmeter Point, so that Austria will return to Europe in terms of environmental protection towards the environmental model country in Europe! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e35066	The next item is the speech by Mr Ehmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e35087	Madam President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! To the budget chapter Agriculture, forestry and water management. One of the most important points is the sustainable production of safe and, above all, high-quality food. A balanced consideration of social, environmental and economic interests is particularly important to us. For us, this means special support for organic farming, mining, especially those with high and extreme difficulties, but also for smaller farms. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] The rural development programme contributes decisively to this objective. However, we are also eagerly expecting the evaluation of what is coming in 2016/2017. Here. For me, the further question is: What happens if funds are not collected in certain areas? The possibility must be used, for example, in the field of organic farming. In addition to conventional agriculture in Austria, this should be kept in mind because organic farming is becoming increasingly important. Mr Federal Minister, apart from that, I have noticed a point in the detailed budget for the 2016 budget estimate in terms of research and other measures. The measures in the field of other measures are relatively clear to me, but the field of research is not very clear for me as a budget item in them. Perhaps you can sharpen this area a little bit in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e35133	Next speaker: Mr Neubauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e35154	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! First the atom bomb was, then the disaster came and then the disillusionment came. Then Chernobyl came, then Fukushima came, then the disillusionment came again. But what have we learned from the fact that we have been dealing with nuclear power stations, nuclear energy on the agenda for internal affairs for 40 years since the vote on Zwentendorf, but also in the context of foreign policy? We then have to discuss the subject that has been taking us up since the post-war years, namely: What is the origin and the scourges of all that we still attach to nuclear power today or that very many countries are still doing so? – This is and remains the EURATOM Treaty. It is the scourges of Europe that prevent us from actually changing to alternative energies, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. And this EURATOM Treaty – so that people can better understand it on television and here in the hall – is responsible for the fact that nuclear power plants can not only be built, but can also be rehabilitated with this money, so that the extension of the duration of so many scrap reactors can be enforced, that is, up to 22 years, as we have now experienced. There is thus a massive potential for the potential for danger in these nuclear power plants, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] All of Europe, despite the stress tests required by Austria, is watching and doing nothing against these nuclear power plants. That is why, Mr Federal Minister, I am very surprised when you said in the press hour, you will now oppose this EURATOM Treaty, which we welcome in principle. But what does this counter-model look like? – This counter-model looks like this, so you have described it at least in the “press hour” that you are creating your own fund to accommodate renewable energies and thus actually want to advance the promotion of these forms of energy. Well, I say that this would be all right, but then it comes to the fact that, of course, you need to have one in mind now, and as the Republic of Austria, you must continue to pay €100 million per year in the EURATOM Treaty and at the same time you have to deposit the Austrian amounts for the new fund. This means that the Austrians will not understand this, but all the other countries in Europe who are currently members of EURATOM will not understand it, and thus this perhaps good proposal will be condemned to failure from the outset. I would therefore ask you from here to go in again and talk to your constitutional judges again. If there are already five university opinions that believe that an exit from the EURATOM Treaty is possible, then no one in Austria understands why you are pushing in such a way that Austria is finally getting out of this troubled contract. I refer here to the provisions of Article 50 of the EU Treaty in conjunction with the Lisbon Treaty and in conjunction with the EURATOM Treaty itself: mutual agreement on this possibility of leaving the EU without having to leave the EU. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It will be interesting whether you will agree with your partner in the government to hold a survey – the proposal has a citizens' initiative – because this survey could also bring these legal questions to a final clarification and then agree to withdraw from this sick Treaty.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e35211	Next speaker: Mr Rädler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e35233	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr Willi – he's still here – 85 percent – that's not the result of an Obmann election in this case – I can underline those projects you have addressed in the energy sector. It should only be noted that the remaining 15 percent, whether hydropower or wind power, are boycotted by citizens' initiatives in Austria by around 20 projects, mostly by representatives of the Greens. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walser.]] I would therefore expect more commitment here than empty words. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Just as the point of view in this budget debate is very strange at all. 651 million € in the environmental field are too little. 77 billion € Total budget is too much for some, for some too little. For some too much, I say now, this is on the liberal side. According to Mr Strache's statement, this budget shows the overall failure of the government. He wants a balanced budget, because the state has to deal with less money and we have a problem with expenditure. There he lies in the election with the Minister of Finance. This is from Mrs Glavischnig, we need more money for the refugees, Mr Zinggl, we need more money for culture. I do not want to say what Mr Pirklhuber has asked for. [[Calls to the Greens.]] Mr Brunner, on the one hand, you agree with the budget, you say that if we have as much budget in the environmental field as before, we will achieve our climate targets in 2030. On the other hand, you say again, it is far too little and the numbers are not at all right. This would result in up to € 2 billion more alone in these two days, which we would have to budgetly estimate. This already shows the divergence in the statements and also that some here really speak of wishing budgets. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] We can be satisfied with those figures which the Federal Minister has presented to us. I just think that 20 000 Green jobs can be created each year in the environmental field. And as mayor, I say to the budget and to the estimated numbers in urban water construction that this is very important for the communities. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] Mr Pirklhuber, you have no understanding of this, I know, because you do not have much knowledge of how important it is to install waste water treatment facilities in to build rural areas and provide water supply. These are the tasks we need to solve as communities. It is therefore very important that this is also taught. I am just saying one word to you now, because these objections are coming from the green side: Show the power of action you have in words here, where you rule! Make Lower Austria a model! In Lower Austria, we generate the electricity 100 percent from renewable energy. And by 2030, we will obtain 50 percent of the total energy requirement in Lower Austria from renewable energy. I would like one to come out, Mr Pirklhuber, where the Greens rule, and say how much electricity is generated from renewable energy in these federal states. Then we can continue to talk about active environmental policy instead of empty words that you produce over and over again.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e35320	Mr Pirklhuber spoke on an actual correction. Mr President, you know the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e35344	Very well, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Rädler has said in connection with the water management and settlement water management – he has addressed me directly as a person – that I have nothing left for the communities. I have actually been sitting for the Greens in the Committee on Water Management in Austria since 1999 and have contributed to all the projects relating to the expansion of water supply and wastewater treatment in Austria and have been very committed to this area. You can ask in the municipal credit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e35372	The next item is the speech by Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e35393	Madam President. Minister! High house! Mr Rädler, it might have been interesting if you had given an answer to how much nuclear power is imported into Lower Austria. That might have been an answer. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, Let's get back to agriculture! It has already been mentioned, and the draft budget provides for €2,135 billion. And it is foolishly positive, Minister, that you have also addressed the forest at the five pillars. The forest, of course, is a vital factor in life, which is out of question. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it is simply a fact – that has already been mentioned – that without our farmers and farmers nothing goes, you have to say quite honestly. It is quite, very important that you simply express a thank you to the rural people, a thank you for their hard work, for their commitment and for their commitment. That is out of question. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Steinbichler.]] The farmers, the farmers work 365 days a year – whether Sunday or holiday, they simply have to be there. The cattle in the stable do not know whether holiday or Sunday is, but they want to be supplied accordingly. Very important, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen, we have also mentioned this in the Green Report, especially the management of our mountain areas. It is simply managed up to the tree border, and I believe that this is an important factor in preventing accidents or natural disasters, whether they are avalanches, murals or the like. That's where our miners are in demand. And that must be worth it to us too, Minister. I believe that there is no need to look closely at the euro, but that is simply an important factor. Since Harald Jannachda is already in the back holes: Ladies and gentlemen, I assume that you will return to the promotions, and that you will rightly address them. I believe that we also need a fair distribution for the promotions, which is important for the future, because I know that funding sometimes comes where they should not go. I believe that we simply need to expand the rural structure, as the Minister mentioned it, in general, and to support it accordingly, so that the countryside, the rural structure in our federal states, too, can be preserved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e35450	The next item is the speech by Mr Fichtinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e35472	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Already in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, there was an intensive discussion on the environmental and economic effects of the support for thermal renovations. The fact that investment in building renovations contributes significantly to economic recovery, which benefits from increasing employment of the state budget, seems to all of us to be apparent. If we do not want to clearly define the distribution of this funding between the private sector and the commercial sector, it should already be mentioned that increased use of funds in large-scale and non-profit housing would have much stronger economic impact and would therefore be desirable from my point of view. The taxpayers are at least pleased in all areas about reduced energy costs thanks to thermal insulation measures. Mr Federal Minister, you have said in the Committee that the level of funding in this area will be based on economic circumstances, but additional impulses for this sector will be assumed by the government from the planned creation of a housing investment bank. It is to be hoped that we will come to an implementation on this point as soon as possible. You have already mentioned the relevant government decision. In any event, we would like to welcome the better cooperation you wish to have with the federal states during the funding process in the housing sector with a view to an economic and efficient use of funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e35502	The next item is the speech by Mrs D. Winter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e35525	Thank you, Madam President, for granting the word. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! You know, it is actually a very pleasant state to come to the speaker's seat as free Members, because we are moving relatively far behind to a point of the agenda, and the views of the individual parties have been able to explain themselves clearly. But I have not only made it my task to listen, but I have also made it my task to compare the two budget speeches of Dr. Spindelegger and Dr. Schelling. This has been a very interesting task for me, because Dr. Spindelegger, in his speech, spoke mainly of the need to tighten the belt tighter, one had to save, one had to save – probably knowing or not knowing that we are living in a debt system where capital and debt are two equal sizes that grow exponentially. But no matter what, that's past. After all, he has devoted two sides of his budget speech to the environment, agriculture and forestry. At Dr. Schelling, on the other hand, could be thought to have read Le Bon’s book “Psychology of Masses ” in advance. Because what he's trying to do is simple. He tries, in words like, oh how beautiful Austria is and how great and how good everything is to agree to the people that the problem as such, which is actually presented by our budget, is not so big at all. And the second, although he has devoted a side to agriculture in his budget speech, the environment, as I mean, has not happened once. One could invent a connection if one reads on page 1 his sentence that one is obliged to give pure wine to the population. In this context, I would like to come to you, Minister. ==References====External links== On October 1st, just next to the presentation of the budget, I was very confused. For where do you find the actual figures you have dressed in words, in the sentence that this budget is “a solid basis for a future-oriented work ”? The fact is, Mr Minister, that you do not address the problems that exist in the environment, in agriculture and in the forestry sector in Austria, let alone that you act or act accordingly. In this long time I have been sitting in the Committee on the Environment, I do not think I have heard the word 'food autarchy' once, for example. We know that food prices are increasing as a result of an increase in agricultural prices. Now we can go back to two conditions: on the one hand, the weather events that occur due to climate change, or also – and not only or, but certainly – through speculation on agricultural substances. In this context, it would have been interesting if you had ever put forward a legislative proposal that deals with futures or index funds or hedge funds, or that you would like to suggest that it will be banned sometime, so that it will not be added to the increase in food prices. TTIP should also be mentioned in this context. They distance themselves from TTIP relatively little. They always say Minister Mitterlehner is responsible for this, and that's what it's all about. I just want to quote Ban Ki-moon here, who said: Never is hunger as humiliating as it was caused by man’s hand! – This is happening right now, and I would say that is something you would have to react to. The second is the farmer's death. You have just said that you are in favour of a viable rural area. - Yeah, that's okay, but that's not covered at all. Noteing the figures, 71 600 rural farms have been closed since 1995. This is one third of the real agricultural small-structured farms. For payments to the EU, which you mention time and again, where you think it would be back to us anyway: I would and I would like to make these payments in your place very easy and give direct payments to the small and medium-sized farmers. I think this has a much greater economic effect. I would like to come to the summary and say: Mr Minister, I am sorry, but I think your environmental policy is simply a missing one. And, of course, something that I, as a free Member, can say finely in this context, is: I would prefer the ten-point programme for green economies, for this includes, for example, the demands for 20,000 organic farms – the last sentence! – and for 100 percent organic in all kindergartens, hospitals and other public institutions. [[President Bures gives the bell sign]] To conclude: It is always said that the budget is the policy cast into figures. I'd like to review this and say: The current budget is the total refusal of reform.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e35590	Reported as follows: Mr Dipl.-Ing. Straster. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e35611	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated Mrs. Federal Minister! Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! We Austrian farmers are a reliable partner in the Austrian economy. [[Abg. New builder: Politics is a bad partner for farmers!]] We are 166 000 farms, 414 000 people. One third of businesses are run by women and we are jointly responsible for 1.4% of Austrian GDP. There are 120 000 employees in the establishments in which they are located and relocated. But: 2014 as well as in the years before, agricultural income has unfortunately fallen, and the alarm bells should shriek at us. For this reason, there are some organisations that actively support us: on the one hand, the Chambers of Agriculture in the federal states and also in the federal government, which assist us as important consultants and also in education and training and as a service facility. On the other hand, these are our associations that are active in the field of animal farming and also in the field of marketing. I should like to thank the Federal Minister for the financial contributions that are immensely important for the organisations, but even more important for the Austrian farmers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Steinbichler:... what form!]] Now a word about a few current things, because TTIP, bio and also exports are always mixed in a relatively insignificant way. On the one hand, the position of BIO AUSTRIA, that is, of the largest Austrian organic farming organisation, is that, under current conditions, one should: No to TTIP says. This is a sign, and this strengthens the Austrian position and actually strengthens the European position, because if I look into the ÖVP programme or the programme of Lower Austrian farmers, then the attitude of BIO AUSTRIA with that of the ÖVP and with that of the Lower Austrian farmers, because we want uniform and high product standards for which we have all fought. [[Abg. Steinbichler: Want to know the position of the Minister!]] [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Are you also against TTIP?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] We want social standards, and we don't want to say yes until we believe that our demands are met. That's our position. [[Abg. New builder: That would be there? What are these demands?]] On the other hand: The bio-success story is also an export success story. And we should not only be proud of our services and goods in general in Austria, which we export, but also of the food we export abroad. In this sense, I wish Austrian farmers good luck, and we will continue to fight for the interests of Austrian agriculture. – Thank you very much and very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e35750	Next, Mr Plessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e35771	Madam President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen here on the gallery and in front of the TV screens! My speech today concerns sub-group 43, environment. We took note of some cuts and reductions in the area of thermal renovation and transfer payments to the climate and energy funds in the Environment Committee, but I am very pleased, and I would like to thank the Minister very much for his commitment that he has achieved additional € 17 million for the thermal renovation, but also transfer payments to the climate and energy funds – € 5.5 million. Congratulations on this success, which is very important for the environment. Ladies and gentlemen! I would particularly like to address the area of urban water management, where there is also a good news to be announced. We have planned € 251 million in 2014 or spent € 336 million in grants, and in 2016 we planned € 351 million, an increase of € 14.7 million for the urban water industry. The urban water industry is a very important area for municipalities and municipalities. Thus, the supply of high-quality drinking water and the environmentally sound disposal of waste water is provided. That is why I am particularly pleased as mayor that we can make these additional budget resources available. In this context, however, I would like to mention the following because there are always politicians here in the House who claim that we have an expenditure problem and not a revenue problem: It is precisely this support, this expenditure for the municipalities is a hugely important contribution, and if you are talking about cuts in expenditure, you have to say where you want to cut down. In the case of effect Objective 5, you have provided some indicators to achieve this objective as well. In particular, the financial compensation will be aimed at obtaining the necessary budget for the settlement water economy. Finally, one of the indicators, in point 5 of the line lengths water pipeline and canal including conduction status. There's a big premise on that. I'm sorry, but I'm sorry. I'm sorry. We need the pipe information system so that we can also get an overview of the existing state of the pipes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e35813	The next item is Mrs Diesner-Wais. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e35835	Madam President. Mr and Mrs Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in plenary! Weather Caprioles and political unrests, speculations, these are things that produce volatile markets and product prices in agriculture. The main objective, of course, is to maintain the rural family farms in their multifunctionality through the hard-fought EU budget and now also the national budget, and to reduce the varying incomes a little, because low product prices in all sectors are currently on the agenda. If we look at individual products as a semi-finished one, only 2% of the proceeds go to farmers, 30 cents to milk or only 4 percent to Pommes Frites – and the workers' chamber still complains about too high food prices. Agriculture is for food security, independence and, of course, the supply of healthy, high-quality and regional food to the population. But it is also there for the conservation of nature, of resources such as soil, air and the environment. Only the farmers do this on their own. They guarantee a good quality of life for our citizens. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The benefits of agriculture must simply be worth something to us, a little valued, but also in financial contributions. If we have a total of €2.76 billion available in the Agriculture and Environment Budget Group next year, 2016, this is for the whole rural area, not only for agriculture, but also for a very efficient environment policy, because two thirds of our population live in rural areas, and that is why this policy is important for rural areas. Austria is committed to a biological, close-to-natural agriculture, an exemplary environmental programme and also to the management of less favoured areas. That's something very important. It is also important to me that we from Brussels collect all the funds available to us. Agriculture is a key factor in rural cooperation with industry, tourism and investment, of course, a regional economic engine. I am also pleased that the funds for education could be increased, because this will lay a foundation for professionalization in agriculture. Austria's farmers really have every reason to be self-confident and proud because they are a cornerstone of our society and an essential factor in ensuring living in rural areas. I would really like to thank our farmers for this.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e35884	Next speaker: Mr Bacher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e35905	Madam President. Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The priorities of the environmental budget in the fields of environmental promotion, water management in accordance with the Environmental Promotion Act, climate and energy funds as well as waste disposal and radiation protection. I think investment in these areas, especially in environmental promotion, is also a contribution to job creation and preservation. This is especially a huge topic for us in the rural region, and every step that helps people in the rural regions to find a viable region is an essential and necessary step. Effect Objective 3 deals with the improvement of environmental quality, biodiversity and quality of life. Every euro is well-designed and meaningful, and above all it is a sign that there is awareness that conservation of nature and biodiversity increases the quality of life of people and secures the basis of life for future generations. In different areas, such as the implementation of the Imissions Protection Act, investments are being made in the same way as in nature conservation and biodiversity measures, especially in the area of National Park Strategy. If these objectives are pursued with consequence, and this can be said in the budget figures, then the successes are far greater than that only the environment and resources are protected or preserved. The result is that people, especially in the country, are lucky to find more jobs in their region. In the country, we depend on nature and the environment being intact, and every step towards preserving the natural resources of our country is an important step, including in terms of jobs. I think the environmental budget reflects this objective. However, we must not lose sight of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e35948	Next speaker: Mr Grillitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e35969	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The agricultural debate is always a two-part one. Everyone says how valuable the farmers are, how beautiful this country is Austria, what great value added agriculture we have in Austria, which provides a basis for tourism, which creates jobs in rural areas that securely covers people's table every day, where people know who's where to produce. [[Call the FPÖ:Yes, it is!]] [[Abg. Rosary: Isn't that easy?]] But the reality in the daily life of farmers is unfortunately another, as is said here. [[Abg. Jannach: The first to say that!]] – Yes, haven’t you said that yet, Mr Jannach?- Oh, my God! That surprises me, because you always speak the truth here. I'm surprised you didn't do that today. [[Abg. Jannach: I'm still coming!]] Reality is really another, we have great challenges: World market discussions, globalisation, falling prices, market prices, trade concentrations, three trading chains have a market share of 85 percent in Austria. We are talking about climate disasters, our livelihoods are at risk. The farmers have their workshop in the wild, are affected daily by such climate disasters, weather disasters, weather conditions. And we'll discuss it here: We need cheap food prices, the funding, the support for farmers must be reduced, that is too much. We are talking about the renationalisation of agricultural policy, but at the same time we know that we can only provide the funds for farmers with the co-financing of Brussels, for our mountain farmers, for our environmental programme, for our environmental services. And this is what you are questioning here, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] Hand at heart: If you think it honest with the farmers, then make sure that they will also have safety in the future, in the daily production, in ensuring the environmental performance, in ensuring food that you want to have at the table every day! [[Congratulations and bravoruf at the ÖVP.]] If you don't, you'll be in danger. You need this profile. That is why, Minister of State: You are the true minister of life, because there is a ministry that has responsibility for safe food, which provides protection against natural disasters with wildlife and avalanche cultivations in Austria, as well as the environment, where it is concerned to introduce new strategies in the use of alternative energy sources. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Pirklhuber and Mr Riemer]] [[Abg. Steinbichler: Is the Rain Forest Minister!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] Here again, especially before Paris, we should look at a climate strategy from Austria in order to become a model country for Europe as well and not wait until anything comes from Brussels – but I also expect Parliament to have a corresponding initiative, ladies and gentlemen, because in the end it is about: [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] In future, how can we ensure our livelihoods accordingly not only in Austria but also in Europe?
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e36105	Next speaker: Mr Jannach. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e36126	Madam President. Federal Minister! Yes, the agricultural debate in the budget is ending. As a liberal, we are not satisfied with the agricultural budget. That's what's going on at one point: We all agree that in the last 15 years very many farms have closed the farm door forever. [[Abg. Steinbichler: 10 a day!]] - Ten every day? Maybe it was eight a day, maybe only five. At the same time, the number of agricultural... – 1.5 per cent migration may be. [[Interference of Federal Minister Rupprechter.]] In any case, we agree, there are becoming fewer and fewer farms. What is no less, and this has been the case for the last 15 years, is the people who are employed in the administration of agriculture. We do not have a reduction in staff in the ministry, we have a massive increase in staff at the Chambers of Agriculture due to all the consulting and control activities, and we do not have a decrease in staff at the AMA, Agromarket Austria. [[Federal Minister Rupprechter: That is really not true!]] In our view, it should be like this: We also need to link agriculture's administrative staff to the number of farms. It cannot be so that it is becoming fewer and fewer businesses – 30 percent of businesses have stopped in the last 15 years – and in the administration staff has not even decreased by 3 percent. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Steinbichler.]] We demand equality and an adjustment, because the personnel costs, and this is what you have here in the budget, against... [[Federal Minister Rupprechter: Minus ten departments!]] Minister for Agriculture, your own budget: Staff costs from 63 million to 66 million €. Where's the big savings? There has been a reduction in income for farmers for three years, 5 per cent each year – a 5 per cent increase in staff in your ministry each year. There is no savings, and there are administrative savings. [[New interim remark by Federal Minister Rupprechter.]] Mr Plessl referred to the question of where expenditure can be reduced. Eco-Social Forum, Eco-Social Forum Europe and in all national groups: 700 000 € per year! You can do that, no human needs it! Tell me a farmer who somehow benefited from the Eco-Social Forum! This is a supply club where only ÖVP politicians sit inside – € 700 000 throws out! [[I should like to congratulate the FPÖ and the representatives of the NEOS.]] [[Call the ÖVP:Hello!]] Or: these enjoyment-land actions, these entire quality programs that you bring there, each region is already a pleasure-land region: 3 million € per year! They're in each other's way! We don't need this, 3 million € you can save without a farmer having any disadvantage. Or: Internationalisation of PRAKO. No one knows what's hidden behind this title. Hundreds of thousands of euros! I don't know how many it is this year, you haven't shown it anymore. Last year it was €700 – for nothing, no one knows anything! Or: LFI, a very special organization. [[Abg. Straster: lectures and courses!]] – Yes, lectures and courses, exactly, we are now coming! – LFI, these are local training institutions, and they receive €7.5 million a year from the Ministry. [[Abg. Strasser: This is the educational budget!]] [[Further calls at the ÖVP:Education!]] That's the education budget. I'll give you that right. And now I am reading to you what the LFI is promoting together with the Federation, with the EU and with the countries. The training institute offers a ‘primary cooking course for students and apprentices’. Or: The Institute offers “Indian Balance”. “This is a form of movement from the Indian culture. The combination of fluid movements and conscious breathing opens the inner energy and tightens the perception of the body.” Funded by the Federal Government, Land and EU, organized by the Rural Training Institute. [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] [[Consistency with FPÖ and NEOS as well as with the Abg. Steinbichler.]] You can delete that, and no one has a problem with it. We have already criticized this at the LFI. Her predecessor has financed flirting courses for farmers, which is then big in the newspaper. You have abolished this, thank you very much for it. Have flirting courses for farmers It abolishes, for which other courses are now offered by the LFI, such as “Green Aphrodisiaca – the love medicine of nature”, funded by the federal government, country, municipalities and Ministry of Agriculture. [[Rejoicing at the FPÖ]] “Green Aphrodisiaca” – organised by the LFI, agricultural training institute. [[Abg. Steinbichler: Bravo!]] [[Consistency with FPÖ and NEOS as well as with the Abg. Steinbichler.]] Minister, I have to read to you a course offered by the LFI, local training institute where farmers are trained in “Kumihimo – Japanese braid art”, funded by the federal government, country and EU. [[Abg. Steinbichler: Bravo!]] This is about “personality and creativity”, price contribution: 35 €, funded by the Ministry. – I still have a particularly interesting course, Minister, from the local training institute of Styria: [[Abg. Darmann: That's where the minister has to laugh!]] “LQB – How do I embrace a cactus?”, funded by the federal government, country and EU. [[Abg. Steinbichler: Bravo!]] [[Lively cheerfulness and condolences with representatives of FPÖ, NEOS and Team Stronach.]] duration of course: 4 lessons; Target group: All interested farmers wishing to deal with puberty, supported by federal government, country and EU. If you are a farmer, pay 17 €, you are not a farmer, pay 94 €. So here, with almost 80 € of federal government, country and EU is supported for “How do I embrace a cactus?” Mr. Minister, that is cabaret what you are doing here! [[Lively cheerfulness at the FPÖ as well as cheerfulness with representatives of NEOS, Greens and Team Stronach.]] Save it here! It's a waste of money to square that can. They also explain to no one outside of the non-farm population. There is a lot of savings potential. [[Congratulations with FPÖ, NEOS and Team Stronach.]] Better save these "cactus promotions" and return agricultural diesel to farmers in return, better save something on social security, make a merger and give farmers the money directly. To finance such projects is not to be justified and that is lukewarm waste of money!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e36371	Next speaker: Mr. Prince. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e36392	Madam President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! It has really come a long way with the FPÖ's agricultural policy, if the agricultural speaker does not say anything about agricultural policy, but only deals with peripheral programmes in the LFI. A poverty, a real poverty! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Steinbichler: If you didn't say anything, it would be good!]] Mr Jannach! The rural training institute's programme. Please look at the LFI program, which courses are now offered! [[Call to the FPÖ: We did that!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] No, no, a bit more serious! There are also rural courses. 99 percent of the courses deal with animal husbandry, plant production, plant protection, animal welfare and such things, but you will of course take this one percent out. Who's going to attend courses at the LFI? Firstly, farmers who produce, and not those who have leased their reason, as you Mr Jannach! Practitioners should talk to farmers there and not one who has leased the reason. You don't know from practice what you're talking about anymore, you're far from reality. That's ridiculous! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] You should concentrate on the core area. Mr Steinbichler, I think that we should look at the speeches you have already held in this House, under a different color, but that is not a problem. Back to reality: As a farmer we operate under the open sky, that is, we are exposed to nature, and unfortunately there are years like 2015 again and again. Think about the drought situation! I am glad that in the Ministry of Agriculture's budget there are €5 million for harvest insurance inside. Upper Austria, for example, has already fixed €2.5 million per year for corresponding risk insurance in September 2015. In Burgenlander Landtag there is, I think, a coalition between SPÖ and – ah, FPÖ, exactly. The FPÖ is also there. [[Abg. Wenninger: In Upper Austria too!]] On a corresponding request from the ÖVP, it was said in the Burgenland no, the FPÖ is not interested in that. This list could continue. Not only give Sunday's speeches, but let acts follow for agricultural agriculture! [[Complementary and intermediate calls at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, one should look at how some things develop. If we allow the rural families to earn money, they will re-invest in the regional economy, in the economic cycle. Let's just look at how much less orders there are in the construction industry, how much less eventually machines are bought! The tractor registrations, for example, fall by about 11 percent. And I would expect other parts and whenever they say clearly, in agriculture itself and in the downstream and downstream areas, we are talking about jobs of more than 500 000 jobs. A sentence on tax reform. In reality, the collective reform benefits all, including the 96 000 auxiliary workers. [[Abg. Steinbichler: The farmers' pensioners with their fat pensions!]] I am glad that it has succeeded in preventing property tax on land and land and farm buildings. I believe that we must say soberly that the agricultural policy is really not in a simple situation, but in the end it is really the best done in those who are responsible for it.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e36501	A second word reported: Mr Jannach. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e36523	Mr. Prince! After your speech, I do not need to go to a Lachyoga course from the LFI anymore, if you think the agricultural policy is well lifted up with you, given the development we have! You're going out and criticizing us – that's your program, which I've made exemplary, with these idiot courses...
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e36541	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to be a little too moderate in terms of expression. Please continue.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e36559	with these very original courses, we say so, which cannot be promoted at all! We have previously criticized many things in the agricultural policy, including the level of support for individual large foundations, but these examples are exemplary of where you can save money in the administration, where you can save money in the ministry, without costing a farmer anything. This money doesn't fall from heaven! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of NEOS and Team Stronach.]] What do you need, Mr. Prince, to promote a Lachyoga course, what do you need to promote a soft wool mini skirt?- Oh, my God! We don't need such things! Let's do this! [[Abg. Steinbichler: We need an agricultural diesel!]] We need an agricultural diesel, we need a reduction in social security contributions, we finally need clarity as to how the values of unity continue. We need – and Mrs Ecker has already said this today – a fair distribution of funding, because it is not understandable that individual farms such as the Fürst Liechtenstein Foundation receive €1.5 million per year, while 70,000 small farmers receive only €5,000! [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Steinbichler.]] These are small examples, but they are symptomatic of agricultural policy. You only run client policy here! It's clean! This money can be saved without any financial damage to a farmer. It's pure waste of money!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e36613	Once again, I would like to say to you: Mr. Prince. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e36655	Madam President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Before there are calls, listen for a minute, and then you can respond. Here you go. To this course as ridiculous as you called it from the LFI, “Cactus Course”. What's this about? This course is about living together in the family, especially about how to deal with children who are in puberty and have difficulties. Let us not pretend that we have no problems in rural and rural families! I think that should not be ridiculous, but we should support the families and help them. That's what it's all about!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e36685	No one is now reporting on this subject. Thank you, Minister of State. The deliberations on this chapter are thus over. [[16:10:03]] UG 25: Families and youth
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e36710	We are now entering into the negotiation of Division 25: Families and Youth. I welcome Mrs Karmasin. We are about to get into the debate. First word message: Mrs Kitzmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e36740	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens! That was a very lively example of how waste can happen. Despite all this, I have to say, even if I am not satisfied with the family budget, that I have to praise Mrs. Minister, because we have not found such things here! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Although I have to tell her that the automatic valorization of the family allowance has remained on the track again. And why did she stay on the track? – Because the reduction of service providers’ contributions in the family compensation fund is massively down. Mitterlehner promised last time that it will be valorised if the family compensation fund is balanced. This cannot, of course, happen if we re-enter deficits, and of course we think it is important to reduce the additional wage costs. But not at the expense of the families! And not on the back of our children! [[As a result of the accident at the FPÖ as well as in the SPÖ's representatives.]] Everyone is working out of this fund, and the families are left with nothing. The funding of foreign benefits from this family fund would have to be missed and abolished at all, but more would be left to the families. In 2016, even €1.3 billion is wasted for non-family services. The section has said that it is also being discussed with the other ministries in order to achieve a reduction in these non-articipal benefits. What happened? - Nothing happened! It didn't do anything. On the contrary: If we look at the last two subbooks, last year and last year, then we see that there are exactly the same numbers inside as for 2016. What's going to change? It doesn't change numbers, it doesn't change at all. In this context, we have already made a request to reduce these non-articulities. What happened? It was said to be postponed because it is already being negotiated. But nothing happened! We have nothing in this budget that shows us that something would have happened in this regard. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I ask you to take this seriously this time and, in fact, to do something. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The ÖVP is acting against families. That's not what we're saying. That's what ÖVP head of state Haslauer said. So how far has it come to you when your own country leaders already say that?- Oh, my God! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] The family is completely empty when it comes to tax reform. Did you hear a word from the Minister of Finance that something had been said about family? – Not a single word! For good reason, he didn't say anything about it, because: What has become of the 7 000 € child allowance? - Nothing, stay on the track! Only doubled you have the child allowance of 220 €. We have had 220 €, now comes another 220 €, so this makes 440 €. There you can easily double. Further: The 13th. Family aid has been degraded to a 100-€-start tuition fee. And what's left of it? Today only more than 94 € worth. So: Where do the families stay in this budget? It has been said so much about the annual valorization of family aid. In 2014, it was increased by 4 percent, but after we lost 34 percent before! And what is now, 2016? – increased by 1.9 percent. But we have an inflation rate of 1.7 percent. What does that mean? – 1.9 minus 1.7 are 0.2 plus, that's not even 30 cents! [[Abg. Schönegger: About the inflation rate!]] Well, what? How much is that? 30 cents! We have already lost 30 percent in recent years. And: Not increased in this whole story is the amount of children's retirement; it has been 58,40 € since 2009. Ladies and gentlemen of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, you say goodbye to family policy! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We liberals are in solidarity with our families. We have families, father/mother/child families, single parents who are close to the poverty line. We will certainly not say that we need to know God where development aid is being provided, we are not going to get rid of it: As long as we have families living on the poverty line here in our country, these are first and foremost taken into account! This is our future, ladies and gentlemen. They always talk about how important the family is. Do something! Don't stick to words, do something! Our support you have when something happens for the families at last.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e36837	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e36948	Next speaker: Mr Dipl.-Ing. Straster. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e36969	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Kitzmüller, a lot is happening. It really happens a lot. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kitzmüller.]] The Federal Minister has been moving a lot over the last two years and she will be moving a lot with us in the next few years. [[Abg. Singer: Where?]] Just a few examples: the increase in family aid in three tranches, the introduction of non-appropriate family aid – we were praised in the constituencies for this! –, the expansion of child education and care services... [[Abg. Neubauer: But this has not happened in the elections!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ]] We are praised by the mayors. We are praised by the families in urban and rural areas. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Another point is the extension of the free kindergarten year. A lot of money that goes over the countries to the communities and benefits families. And because you're always talking so negatively about the tax reform: The tax reform also benefits families disproportionately with around €1600 per year. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Ironic cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the FPÖ.]] I'm making it a little more basic now because we're already so populist: For us, close-to-life family policy is based on the ÖVP – and I also see a great consensus in the Federal Government – on three pillars. One is the direct cash benefits. Here we are at an international level, at a very high level. The second is the expansion of child education and care facilities. [[Abg. Singer: This is particularly important!]] Here too, the Federal Minister and the Federal Government have put us on a good footing. [[Abg. New builder: You really have no idea!]] [[Further call of the Abg. Kitzmüller.]] – Ladies and gentlemen from FPÖ, I am looking for attention! The third pillar is economic and employment measures, and I am very pleased that this reduction in additional labour costs has come about because it will also create many jobs that will benefit our mothers and fathers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singer.]] In Austria, we have this custom – it is particularly strong in the FPÖ – to see everything very negative. [[Abg. Kitzmüller: After what is positive?]] There is this picture of half full glass, and you can choose, Mrs. Kitzmüller, whether You see half full or half empty. But I want to further develop the picture, because my circle of friends, the people in my constituency tell me about the mood, the glass is not half full, but 80 percent full. And above all, I wish you, Mrs Kitzmüller, or all of us, that we out of this 80 percent – where we say it is going well – we have confidence that we have hope – the strength to change the remaining 20 percent of the projects we want to improve. Do you know who already picked up this message? – It is the Austrians who live in a family association, because we are already in this European ranking... [[Abg. Deimek: That's why they protested!]] [[Abg. Kitzmüller: But the Catholic Family Association...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schimanek.]] – Mrs Schimanek, you don't have that confidence. The Austrian population now says to 60 percent that we are a family-friendly country. So 60 percent in Austria have already understood the message of Mrs. Federal Minister, and that is also our message. [[Calls of the Abg. Kitzmüller and Barbara Rosenkranz.]] Second: In 2014, 3 percent more children have been born in Austria than in recent years. [[Abg. Steinbichler: Heimische?]] These are results and events that we can certainly celebrate. I thank the Federal Minister and the Federal Government. We're on a good way. Thank you and all the good!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e37198	Next, Mrs Mag. Schwentner speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e37219	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Dear spectators and spectators! Ladies and gentlemen! After I have followed the debate now and the previous one, I would think that in the ranks of the so-called family party ÖVP the lobby in agriculture and in the peasantry is greater than that for the family. [[Congratulation with Greens and FPÖ.]] Otherwise, we would not have to talk here again about a really inconceivable story that has already been addressed, namely the family compensation fund, the FLAF. At the request of the ÖVP, we now have our own family minister, and I would also say that this FLAF, this compensation fund, is the most important family policy instrument at all. If it is then decided – yet for 2017 and 2018, that is not even relevant to the budget we are discussing now, but it obviously had to be decided quickly in a night and fog action – that from FLAF millions will be deducted for the reduction of service providers – and I have nothing against it, it is good if we relieve the labour factor, but not via FLAF, without saying how it is being financed against – and then in this whole debate there is no single word from the family minister, then I find it really very remarkable. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Call the ÖVP: You just don't understand!]] I understand very well! I don't think you understood it as a family party. This FLAF pays very relevant benefits in order to avoid poverty in families in Austria: the family allowance, the school book action – all possible, which is essential for families. It is also an important balancing instrument between those... [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] What are you so excited about? They would have had the opportunity to turn on, object, and prevent FLAF from being looted over the next few years. That will be the case! [[Abg. El Habbassi: That's not true at all!]] I would like to remind you of something: Mr. Klubobmann Lopatka – unfortunately he is not here now – wrote an open letter yesterday to the Catholic family association and other family associations, saying that no, family benefits are not in danger in the next few years. [[Demonstrative applause and bravado with ODP representatives.]] - I'm glad you're applauseing me. Okay, probably the next two years aren't because we know there's a small plus. [[Oh-Rufe and more recent demonstrationist congratulations by representatives of the ÖVP.]] But first of all: Be so honest and say that behind it is a huge billion hole! The FLAF reserve fund lacks €3 billion! And now tell me, dear family party ÖVP, how you want to stop this billion hole again in the next few years! [[Abg. Rädler:... don't explain because it's pointless!]] I remember Mr Lopatka – perhaps you remember him because he is not here now –: [[Abg. Grill: Where's Mrs. Glavischnig?]] [[Abg. Prince: Yes, where is Mrs. Glavischnig?]] [[Abg. Grillitsch: Is that not what the woman Clubob Woman is interested in?]] In 2010, you also said we need to save FLAF, there is too little money in FLAF. And what happened? – Family benefits have been cut from 26 to 24 years of age, thanks to ÖVP, to the FLAF, in order to save practically the deficit in the FLAF. [[Abg. Obernoster: Are 26-year-olds still children?]] I look at in two years how the big family party ÖVP will then have to reduce family benefits once again in order to maintain in some way what the money is missing for in the back and front. When we talk about FLAF, we can also talk about the fact that there are achievements that may affect other departments. But then let us also, colleagues from the NEOS, as it is proposed, talk quite openly about what services should be paid from the FLAF and which from other resorts – but open and transparent, and not about the back door as you do and take away the families money as it happens now. “Thank you,” ÖVP!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e37365	The next item is the speech by Mrs Kucharovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e37387	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the TV devices! I'd like to make a transfer. I understand the discussion on the FLAF, which we will continue to hold. We will also be here, and we have already discussed this in the Committee, very carefully to ensure that there are no cuts in family benefits. [[Abg. Kitzmüller: How is that supposed to go?]] That was just said at the outset, and the Minister has already spoken in the committee. [[Abg. Kitzmüller: How do you want to do this?]] I would like to speak to the child and youth budget as a child and youth speaker. For further information, please contact: Specific funds for children and young people are a bit difficult to find in the budget. I've already noticed that. A little more transparency, and not only in the context with families, would be, I simply think, a little more contemporary and from my point of view would be just great. I would like to speak on content. Very positive – quite clearly – is the guarantee of the continuation of work with the Federal Youth Office, the legal representative of children and young people, which is also assured in 2016, as well as open youth work and extra-school youth work, as well as the continuation of the youth strategy and structured dialogue. Important for students are, quite clearly, also the free ride as well as the top youth ticket, especially for apprentices. Unfortunately, it is not included – as was the case last year, one has to say quite openly, and has already been discussed – the extension of the top-youth ticket to students. Mr El Habbassi and I have tabled a motion for a resolution on this subject some time ago, namely before the summer. The students need this ticket! Therefore, once again the request to you – I know that more ministries are entrusted with it – to become active in this regard. I would really like that, and logically I would like to make myself active myself in order to bring something really forward. The students need that. A few months ago, you have also installed a consultant and hotline against extremism and radicalization. I think this is very positive, and it is very positive before al-lem that it is in the youth and family resort and not, as was then, in the Ministry of the Interior. They have also equipped this with €300 000, also for the coming year 2016, and they want to increase it – as I have heard and read medially as well. We have heard that this hotline, but above all it has already been addressed to the consulting center, to the affected, to relatives, to social workers and many more. I think that is quite, very important, that there is that in this form. Last week we also celebrated a birthday, namely the 26. The birthday of children's rights. We did this in the house, too. There were children here who gave us a lighthouse, or built it in the column hall, which is to shine for all children and above all for all the rights of the children. And in your department, Mrs. Minister, a body is installed, the Children's Rights Monitoring Board, which is supposed to look at whether this lighthouse is shining for all children, as it were. This will also be budgeted at €70 000 next year. That's positive. Unfortunately, we have no reports yet. But we will deal with this issue in Bälde, in detail and also in the context of discussions, in the Subcommittee on Children and Youth. In conclusion: From my point of view, children's rights are the central pillar of child and youth policy. I think, Mrs Minister, you too see this as a Minister for Children and Youth. And that's why: All children simply have the same rights, and they also have the same right to family, meats where someone comes from, and meats where someone is at home. I would therefore like to mention the very, very current campaign – presented yesterday – of the Federal Youth Office, which I personally consider very, very supportive, namely #multi-fleet. I would really ask you to take these concerns seriously, namely an extremely justified criticism of the planned difficulties of the family estate, and to act here as an ally of this campaign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e37436	Next, Mr Pock. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e37458	Madam President. Estimated Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! Mrs Bundesminister, we have not had much opportunity to discuss the issues personally, except once in committee, but the colleagues here in plenary know that I am in myself very binding and friendly in tone. However, I hardly succeed in your budget. I did not see any poorer organized budgets for all the detailed budgets. I have not received fewer answers from any budget committee. And nowhere have I had the feeling that neither you nor your resort have the least plan for 2016. What makes me particularly bold is actually how it has developed over the past 12 months. And I want to look at the whole thing on two levels now. One thing is: How did you deal with FLAF? – In principle, and there was also a quote from your side, you agreed that you would like to reduce the 3 billion € debt that was incurred in 2014 by 2019. Degrading € 3 billion by 2019 means that we are paying off government debt. If you make a real debt debt by means of surpluses, that means 3 billion less public debt. That's what it was. Their target until 2018, or the successor from 2018 onwards. You have then made several decisions where you seem not to have intervened very taxingly. And straight ahead: All the benefits that have been increased, all the benefits that have been introduced, we do not in itself criticize. We have indeed been in favour of expanding these achievements, at least in many areas. Last year, the issue of increasing family support – in itself, because it has not been valorized for a long time. However, this has meant that the additional expenditure from this year, and then in particular 2016, will mean that the debt can no longer be properly respected. What happened next? – Next came the additional wage reduction. As NEOS, we are quite clear for an even greater reduction in additional wage costs than those you now offer or that you also implement. However, what are you doing? – You take part, as it were, of the revenue from FLAF, reducing the expenditure of entrepreneurs, but you only shift it. In total, you have a pay-in-the-money reduction on pump. This means in the second step: The government debt we wanted to reduce will not be decommissioned. What's going on? At the labour market summit, you decided to introduce a bonus malus system for older workers. It is an important topic to support older workers in the labour market accordingly. However, these are again missing revenue. There are a number of measures that have led you to say: Debt path until 2019, yes! You said quite specifically in June – I would like to read this to you again, I quote from the “parliamentary correspondence” –: ‘Decidedly, it closed’ – note: Federal Minister Karmasin: “It is out that before FLAF debt there can be a reduction in the additional wage costs.” So the goal was to be debt-free in 2019. We were now in the preview for 2015 at €2.69 billion in debt. According to your own statement – I asked you for your assessment – the debt level will be around 2.65 billion in 2019. That is, if we continue the debt as consistently as last year, we are not yet discharged in 80 years. This is once a fact that you have to face up to. Now I do not think that the family benefits are in danger, because I believe that our government is very well-trained in making further debts. However, it is not trained in debt reduction. And that was the goal and that was the promise. Therefore, the question of the solution: There are a number of funding and measures that are currently being financed by FLAF, but which are not necessarily pure family benefits. I would like to give a number of examples: One is the mother-child pass or also the weekly fee currently partially financed by FLAF. Where does it belong? – It belongs to the health resort, it belongs to the main association. In the case of health insurance, there are currently deposits of several billion euros. But I will also come to further answers. We also have the School Book Action. This is also necessary, of course, but is in itself a measure of the classroom and not of the FLAF. Third, we have the area of student and apprentice free travel. That is what we want to maintain. But this would in itself be a measure for that political level, which also organizes local transport – these are the federal states and the municipalities. What do all these things have in common? – When it comes to shifting, we need to make significant reforms everywhere, reforms that we have been talking about for a long time, for example in the health resort: One could force the merger of the health insurance companies. Then there would be the possibility, in fact, of using these measures without compromising the reserves. If we partially transfer tax autonomy, as the Minister of Finance has already announced, step by step to the federal states and municipalities, they could also transfer precisely these free movement models to the municipalities and to the federal states. And so, unfortunately, my speaking time could now continue for hours. The fact is: The budget is unacceptable. The department has not even considered what this means for FLAF in the next few years. The families are given to the Pranger by the two government parties. And all the reforms you can make are not taking place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e37527	The next item is the vote on the report by Mrs Lamassoure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e37548	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Our family minister began her term of office almost two years ago with the intention of making Austria the most family-friendly country. Both current rankings and the 2016 budget show that this is the right way. The Family Friendly Monitor 2015, which you presented recently, shows that the Austrians' view of this also reflects this, as satisfaction has increased from 31 to 63 percent. Mrs Bundesminister, this is a balance sheet that can be seen. Congratulations on this! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What does this mean for the 2016 budget? – In contrast to some other budgets, the family budget is not reduced, but it increases. This shows, in view of the difficult financial conditions, that the Federal Government and the family minister in particular are a particular concern for the families. As planned, and this has already been said, family allowances are increased by 1.9 percent at the beginning of the year, and in conjunction with the tax reform, for example, the double of the child allowance amount to € 440, but of course the tax relief will also bring a noticeable improvement of the families. All these measures will make families one of the winners of the year 2016. In this context, I should also like to mention FLAF. Yes, it is true that the reduction in the additional wage costs will lead to less money for FLAF. But first of all, the reduction in additional wage costs will also stimulate the economy, create more jobs, and so there will be more service providers' contributions to FLAF. And second: The debt will simply be reduced more slowly. This is not an unusual process. That means that it is not a reduction in expenditure for the families. They will not hear anyone who has said it will be saved among the families, but what is out will remain. A subject that was considered a little more critical in the family friendly monitor was the issue of compatibility between family and work. This is also the issue of childcare facilities, but there will be an improvement in 2016. And that, too. Ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, is part of the family policy. And there's a lot of money going in there! That's where the woman's family minister or the government took a lot of money into its hands. Another word for the second compulsory kindergarten year, which we have discussed very intensively in the Committee. [[Abg. Kitzmüller: This is a decree! This is not a voluntary service!]] In Upper Austria, we have an almost 98 percent care rate for the four-year-olds. [[Abg. Straster: 98 percent!]] [[New call of the abg. Kitzmüller.]] [[Abg. Strasser: This is not a mandatory order!]] And the almost 2 to 2.5 percent that don't go to kindergarten are mostly children with migration backgrounds. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: This is exactly the spiritual approach...!]] And honestly, I don't understand the liberals at all, because they're actually exactly those kids who are supposed to go to kindergarten because they're learning the German language they don't do so well. Probably – this is my interpretation now – there is a sort of inner dispute between two ideological attitudes: A somewhat conservative – one could also say: rigid – family image on the one hand, that means that only the mother is the right caregiver, and on the other – and I express it carefully now – a massive mental reservation of non-autochthonian Austrians. No matter how the match goes with you – I don't know – that's definitely something that isn't good and not beneficial for a family-friendly development of our country. Therefore, Mrs Minister, thank you very much for your wide view, for your openness and for the measures you have taken and you will continue to put. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e37637	Next, Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e37658	Madam President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! [[The speaker presents a panel with a photo on the speaker's desk, on which a bubble is pictured in leather pants and carded shirt, standing and laughing on a flower meadow.]] [[Call the ÖVP:Leo, is this a youth photo? Little Leo?]] In particular on this important issue, I would like to express something that is even more important than the financial basis, which, of course, is also very essential: This confidence, this hope, which radiates from such a child, we must receive until the pension. We need to make sure that we offer people in our state a decent life, and this naturally starts with the family. I would like to express my thanks here in the very first place to all the educating families, all mothers, married or single, for what they do for society, what they do for the state, is priceless. Thank you very much. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team as well as with representatives of SPÖ and FPÖ.]] [[Call to the ÖVP:And the fathers?]] [[Abg. Stroll: Leo, you forgot me!]] The family is the smallest, the most important and the cheapest cell in the state – by a distance, from birth to care. If we discuss the second year of kindergarten here, when we know how the care costs will explode in old age, we also know where the cost factors of the future are, which burden our budgets, and we need to rethink and perhaps reflect on more of the often called conservative values. Is everything bad that's conservative? What does that mean: preserve and preserve? Of course, some modernisation and development are necessary. The family is also an important economic factor. Statistics published in the press have shown that a child is up to 15 years old. Year of life costs € 130 000. This money will be invested regionally. This money means regional economic power, which flows into regional business, into book trade, into textile business – it secures and preserves the regional economy. I mean, this is the most important thing, and, Mrs Karmasin, even though child support is now being increased, we still have 20 percent real purchasing power loss from the last governments. This money is lacking for families, and that is why we have the problem of risk of poverty, especially among the multi-child families, or one or two-child families, that they can no longer afford another child. However, I would like to present here a very different aspect of the families, which is far too little mentioned and which plays a very important role in rural areas in particular: From the families come quite, very valuable new, young members for the fire brigade, for the football clubs, for the musical chapels, for every form of clubs that are so important to us in the country that this community, this collegiateness, this prosperous rural organization outside, where people feel comfortable, where they meet, where they talk, where they do not come in anonymity. This basis is very important from the families, because children and young people are often prepared for it, and that is also a lot of additional benefits if they have to be driven to school or to practice, which are then provided free of charge by the families, by the mothers. Mr Strasser said that 80 percent of the families are working well. - Well, that's what it's all about. This is likely to be from a statistics that has not yet been published, because in fact the wishes and legitimate demands are much greater, and I do not think that this is only 20 percent. FLAF was addressed: The FLAF, which my previous speaker said, is, of course, also foreign to purpose. We know what's going to be put in there, starting with the mother-child pass. I think, Mrs Minister, that we should look much more closely at the use of the money, which is essential. I think that there is also a view of the statement of German Finance Minister Wolfgang Schäuble regarding driving, especially in family policy. Everything we have discussed in this House yesterday, today and tomorrow decides on this confidence of our children – from the environment to the climate, from health to jobs. That is why, I believe, family policy should be directed particularly towards the rule of law, towards sustainability, and there we are all called for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e37727	Mrs Holzinger-Vogtenhuber's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e37751	Madam President. A short while to my previous speaker, Leopold SteinbichlerHe seems to have a quite traditional family image. Thank you also to the fathers who are doing great educational work. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP, Greens and Team Stronach.]] [[Abg. Steinbichler makes a bow and draws a virtual hat.]] Estimated citizens who are on TV or the Internet! Dear colleagues! In principle, the budget for 2016 is – and I really emphasize: 2016 – in the family sector, to be cautiously positive, as it was estimated at €65 million higher in the Federal forecast for the coming year than this year and has been given attention to many central needs of families and young people. As positive, even if it is only an increase in inflation and 2 percentage points in addition, I consider that the increase in family support from next year onwards is 1.9 percent, which corresponds to additional expenditure for the federal government of € 80.5 million. I am also positively optimistic about the further expansion of child care services in the federal states, which will be achieved by implementing the Article-15a agreement between the federal government and countries and which constitutes an important measure in the area of compatibility between family and profession. Another important area in the future will also include transfers to social security funds. There was a clarification in the Council of Ministers yesterday that the billing of child rearing times for the waiting period for the pension is being improved. In future, four years will be charged for the pension even if there are fewer than 15 years of contributions per child. This is a plus of around €100 million, which are inside the budget. Despite all of this, we also need to focus on the basic discussion of cash and benefits in the family sector. The transfer of funds is necessary on the one hand, but on the other hand there are benefits in kind which come to one for the purpose for which they are intended. In the area of child care we have found in you, Mrs Karmasin, an ally. In spite of all this, the debate must continue urgently, especially in the light of the debate we held this morning, which was about the special issue of child poverty, of which around 10,000 children in Austria are affected. I would like to quote the Danish political scientist and sociologist Gøsta Esping-Others, who has a good answer to this difficult question: “A high level of cash benefits, considered in itself, is usually not sufficient to protect families with children from poverty.” Deficiencies in providing out-of-home care to reconcile family and work usually lead to increased dependence on social benefits and correspondingly higher risk of poverty for children. Unfortunately, we see these trends in Spain, Portugal and also in Italy. In Sweden or Denmark, on the other hand, this increased focus on benefits in kind leads to fewer child poverty and, as you have already mentioned in the Committee, to a higher birth rate. I therefore see the financing of a second kindergarten year free of charge and mandatory for parents as a great opportunity and hope that you will also pay your attention to it and your whole attention. Finally, I would like to say that I am committed to sustainable financing of the family budget for the year 2017, when this is precisely the reduction in FLAF's budget. The Commission's proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes and The decommissioning of the reserve fund will be postponed for further years. This has already been discussed in the Committee. On the other hand, the question arises of how to reduce these debts in the long term. In my opinion, this is also our great goal, to look closely at the 2017/ 2018 budget and the follow-up budgets, and also to say to Mr Lopatka and also to you, Mrs Karmasin, that, despite the reduction in service providers' contributions, family benefits will remain to the fullest extent. – That’s what has been said. I do not want to hear about the extension of the free kindergarten or the extension of the top-youth ticket for students in future projects, that this will not be possible due to reservations of funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e37843	The next item is Mrs Steger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e37864	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! When I approached the budget, I wanted to see to what extent the future of Austrian youth actually played a role in this budget. However, I did not have to wait long for this answer, because it was already very well heard from Mr Schelling's first budget speech: In the entire speech, the word “youth ” came exactly once, and that in the title of your area, Mrs. Minister. But even in your resort budget, it won't be much better. The youth sector, with around €9 million, is taking a very small part, and then it is likely that you will again pay much less than you budget as last year. That is what the government is always trying to sell in the end as budget success. Again and again, in the political debate, you have also stated that youth policy is a cross-cutting matter. Yes, Mrs Minister, I give you absolutely right, and there are not many possibilities for you in fact, except for projects, but also for the promotion of youth organisations. In this area, however, you should look more closely at what these funds are actually used for. You should be careful that no youth organization gets money from your ministry that produces such hateful flyers as the socialist youth does. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] For example, there are sayings on it: Who the cross at H.-C. I need to know it's got a hook. And on the back there's a big logo to find your ministry. That's what I call politics of the bottom drawer! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Y ılmaz.]] These are shameful and scandalous diffamation attempts, and I would also expect SPÖ representatives to come down here once, yell up and perhaps distance themselves from them. That's your youth organization! – Or does that correspond to your idea of high-level politics? [[Abg. Yılmaz: Mr. Mölzer!]] At least I hope not. It should be for the promotion of political youth organisations to provide a basic democratic understanding, and not for any institutions that are primarily characterised by the fact that they occur in the form of counter-conferences at events of other democratically legitimate parties and are demonstrating, acting or perhaps even ranching there. [[Call the SPÖ:Ah yes!]] It shouldn't be! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But back to youth policy: Yes, youth policy is a cross-cutting matter, and it is precisely because of this that you, as a minister for youth in the budget design, should act as a representative of youth in a comprehensive way and thus make the budget more sustainable. You certainly, as a opinion researcher, before your time as a political queen, have done studies on what the youth actually wants and what she needs. When I look at this budget, I don't think that meets the criteria that you were empirically raising at the time. What interests the youth? – The youth, for example, is interested in a successful education. More than 30 percent of young people in Austria cannot read and write meaningfully after completion of compulsory schooling. Some 53,000 young people drop their schooling early on, and for years it has been working on a reform of education, which is in fact less of an increase in quality and thus an investment in the sustainability of education than a reform of bureaucracy, which is the creation of a new bureaucratic nature. The bureaucracy was once again set up, as it were, or as President of the Court of Auditors Moser said: Problem recognized, but unfortunately not solved again! The youth, for example, is also interested in a good and safe apprenticeship. There were 6 500 job seekers last year who did not find a apprenticeship. What is the interest of the youth? – For a secure workplace, for example, there were 74 000 unemployed under 25 – a situation that will intensify more and more with irregular mass immigration into the labour market and also with current international migration. What else do we have? – 408,000 young people and children at risk of poverty, and, and These are just a few areas in which there is an urgent need for action, in which there is an urgent need to invest and for which there is once again much too little or nothing to be found in this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e37935	Next speaker: Mr. Prince. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e37957	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In Austria, around 1.125 million families live with children. It has already been mentioned by my previous speakers a number of times in the family compensation funds and in the cost reduction which was made at the last labour market summit. In this sense, Mrs Holzinger, we will, of course, also observe Mr Klubobmann Schieder and Mr Faymann in detail how this will be handled in the future. In reality, however, one should hold: Family benefits will not fall because of this, but they will remain the same. The only delay is the decommissioning of the family compensation fund, which will move a little backwards. [[Abg. Schwentner: “A little”!]] Within the framework of the family aid alone, around €3.4 billion will be paid next year. We all probably forgot again that it was increased by 4 percent last year, and by 1. ==References====External links== January 2018 further increases are made by 1.9 percent each. [[Abg. Kitzmüller: Yes and, what is that against the 30 percent...!]] My colleague, Mr Strasser, has already mentioned this: The tax reform will improve for families from January 2016 onwards. The calculations assume that this will make up around €1600 per family and year. That's not very little, that's a decent amount. For example, the child allowance is more than doubled with 440 € – these are also clear benefits. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Schwentner:... You believe what you say!]] [[Abg. Strasser: Independent Institutes!]] Ladies and gentlemen, even though Austria is in the family benefits, in which support for families is in reality the top of Europe, we still have to think about why on average we are about 1.4 or 1.5 births per woman. If a people, a nation on average has only 1.4 or 1.5 births, that is, we are going to be less. [[Abg. Walser: Too little...!]] [[Abg. Schwennner: Father's Care, Father's Month...!]] [[Abg. Kitzmüller: tax reform!]] What does that really mean for the future – for the pension system, for social systems and the like? I think we should be honest: One is more of the emotional realm – how do we stand ourselves as children? – and the other goes, of course, towards the compatibility of work and family, but that alone it will not be. If the births are so few, we will have up to a certain degree of contraction, we have always had them in the past. Here, in reality, integration begins. I think that the Federal Minister Kurz's plan, which concerns the issues of integration and in which many measures are described, is a very good one. Mrs Bundesminister, I think that there is also a need to consider in the family ministry where you can intervene supportively so that this can also be implemented. These 50 measures can be summarized briefly: Those who come to Austria must first learn the language, second want to work here and get involved, thirdly acknowledge our order of living and our order of values.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e38079	Next speaker: Mr Schmid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e38100	That's it! First: Mrs Steger, this is always such a trick from the FPÖ! If you are in distress, someone turns out to be from you and takes any comparison with another organization. [[Abg. Kitzmüller: We are not in distress! Who's in distress?]] The SJ is not our youth organisation, but I really am protecting it because the FPÖ currently has a very different problem, namely what Mr Mölzer has published in his newspaper. – By the way, he's not here all day today, probably for good reason. [[Call the FPÖ: But he was already there!]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Were you not in the way he spoke?]] [[Abg. Darmann: Mr Mölzer has even spoken from the speaker's desk! Didn't you come?]] Mr. Mölzer was excited in his newspaper “Currently” about the “ractical blending” – quote – in the Vienna kindergartens. I'll tell you: The times are over for such a thing to be publicly promoted! These are the public subsidies that must be abolished in Austria. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Enough to the FPÖ – I now want to come to something more important, namely the budget. The budget is, it is said, cast policy. The question is: What does this budget say about the policy that the Federal Government is making? Today, a few words have fallen – I have written this –: A few speakers have spoken of a forward-turned budget, of a future budget, of the fact that this budget is a success. – These are all statements that have been made by representatives of the government parties today. I have to say that I think that this budget says something completely different and that the language of the budget is quite different, namely that powerful clients and lobbys have prevailed at this budget, that those who have privileges in Austria retain it, and that it is getting worse for the rest of the country and for my generation, for the boys. – This is the statement that the budget has for me. This is the policy cast in numbers. For me and for us Greens, the central question is: How can you make a budget fit for the next 30 years? What does the budget mean for the next 30 years? What does it mean not only for the next election, how often it is thought, but for the next 20, 30 years? And if you look at the budget from this point of view, you realize it's a joke for us boy. I would like to point out two points: firstly, climate protection, Austria's climate policy, and secondly, education. First, climate protection: There has been a study by the Ministry of the Environment together with the Climate Fund, and it has been found that over the next 30 years climate costs for Austria will amount to up to €9 billion annually. For my generation, this means spending €9 billion, which we boys will have to fight for the consequences of climate change over the next 30 years, if we do not do anything about climate change. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] Secondly, climate policy: Next week, the climate summit is in Paris. It looks as promising as it has long been. My colleague Christiane Brunner will also take part. 160 countries around the world have demonstrated that they want to do something for climate protection. Among them are China and the USA, which at least now make promising statements. But what is the government doing in Austria? – In this budget, the Austrian government has cut the budget for thermal renovation for houses by more than half. There is a minimum of €16 million in environmental support, and the funding for the climate fund is reduced by a third, and in the future there will be €30 million less. These are measures which are put into practice within the framework of this budget. Next point: FLAF. – It is said that family benefits will not be frozen over the next two years, but that includes, as has been stressed, other benefits. For example, the government has repeatedly said that the extension of the top youth ticket to the students – which would also be a climate policy measure – could be financed by FLAF if it is due in two years. That was always the answer to the question of how this should be financed, and I hope that because of the proposed measure the top-youth ticket did not die and, so to speak, another climate policy measure is gone. Next point: Education policy. We know that every euro invested in education comes back in four years. That means that this is not only an issue but also an investment. But really, the figures look like this: Although we decide on the budget today, there is still a funding hole of €350 million in the educational budget, where we Members still do not know – by the way nobody knows; if any of you are smarter, then I would like to hear it – where we could spell these €350 million for the hole in the educational budget, so to speak. [[Interference of Federal Minister Karmasin.]] Not from FLAF! I guess I did. There are still 70 000 young people in Austria, who have quit their training and are without a job, so the well-known NEETs, have not yet taken into account what future development will be like in the education system. This group costs Austria – apart from human fates and the need for a system of education that makes the powerful and self-determined citizens – once every four years the funds we have to spend on the hypo. This group, which costs 70 000 young people so much; and there has not yet been taken into account who will still be able to do so in the future. These 70,000 people cost Austria once every four years the amount of the mortgage payments. This also applies to my generation if we don't do anything now. Only the fact that the entire talents are being thrown away will cost our country a fortune. Another example: There is still no proper clearing procedures for young refugees, such as the SOS Children's Village in Salzburg, which is once seen: What is there for talents and skills in young asylum seekers, what support do they need? There are sometimes no broken German courses. It happens that refugees are half a year or a year without a German course. All these are points that my generation will eventually really fall on its head. Every euro flowing into such measures would really be an investment. We simply need to consider this with the budget. On the other hand, the money has gone into a tax reform, due to which a 59-year-old vice chancellor earns €2 157 a year more, while a 23-year-old secretary thus has only €370 a year more. This shows that young people have little of the money you spend. In addition, it is true that our future – in terms of environmental protection, in terms of education policy – will be built. That is why, I think, a change of course is essential, because that will not allow it to continue.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e38201	Now Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Karmasin is speaking. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e38222	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Estimated families! This budget is a positive budget. Especially in view of the fact that, as we have already heard today, we are being saved in other departments and there are budget gaps, we can speak of a higher budget than in 2015. We have achieved a budget increase, and this has already been very recognized in these areas, which are very difficult times. I would point out that over the whole period, €830 million will be invested in increasing family support. This is for the first time after many years – and I give you the right, nothing has happened relatively long – a significant increase in three partial steps. The three steps are quite an incentive for us to continue to discuss future consistent increases, which, by the way, have nothing to do with whether the service providers' contributions are reduced or not. – So first step is the following: 830 million € more for family aid. Furthermore, there is €305 million for the expansion of child education institutions, and of course this is about money, which is almost a reduction of resources. That's the The largest expansion offensive ever. We have already achieved very good progress in child care rates, both for the two-year-olds and for the over three-year-olds. Of course, a lot of money goes into the quality. Thirdly, This is about extending the free kindergarten year for the five-year-olds. There is € 210 million for this. There, where €140 million were originally planned, we were able to spend € 210 million. It's also a huge success! In addition, the introduction of the e-books, which the Ministry also costs, and also, as already mentioned, the services of extremism, which, if you want to, is a big and necessary step, under difficult conditions, because we have already been able to count 900 contact points and, through consistent work, have been able to really prevent this from happening in the direction of violence or aggression. – In total, it is a very nice package to be honoured. With regard to the reduction of additional wage costs via FLAF, I would like to say: Yes, we had to do something because the additional wage costs in Austria are at the highest level compared to other countries. This is, of course, something that the economy clearly calls for. But I am not talking about the economy here at all, but rather about the families. This is about new jobs, about 60 000 new jobs. And when we talk about child poverty here, of course it is a very important point of attack that we promote jobs, that we motivate and support the economy accordingly in order to develop new jobs. 60 000 new jobs are, of course, something that families will benefit from in the future. This has been a very important decision. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I'd like to give you a little more on the way: In principle, it is not the case that the FLAF is in my or the area of sovereignty of the Ministry of Family Affairs and can be available according to the situation of input and expenditure. Fortunately, there is no compelling link between FLAF's degree of debt and the will to family policy benefits. I would remind you that in 2013 the large increase in family aid under FLAF's worst debt, i.e. a minimum of €3 billion, was decided. This means that it is not a matter of whether FLAF is positive or negative in the future, but of a joint commitment by the Federal Government that the funds in the FLAF are at least secured by 2018 and that I am a guarantee that we will certainly not cut family benefits by EUR. That is, as I said, safe once! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kitzmüller.]] We will, of course, work to ensure that we will also receive appropriate funds for the next period. But let us be satisfied with these measures! [[New call of the abg. Kitzmüller.]] One thing is still sketched in this way: We have already launched a FLAF reform in recent months, a working group of experts that is very intensively concerned about the question – and will deal with the next few months – how we can prepare FLAF with its relevant family policy achievements in the future. Of course, this will be a very big issue, as we will deal with the so-called non-family services. This is our path for the next months. I would like to have a small view of which projects we are planning in the next few months: on the one hand, 2017 is the implementation of the child care money account, thus providing a more individual, more flexible and transparent solution for the families will offer – with the partnership bonus, with an increased share of fathers in order to in turn involve the fathers more towards compatibility – and on the other hand, the “Company for Families” network, which is developing very well, is still to strengthen in order to promote the compatibility offers of the economy and to increase it even more; and on the other hand, it is the second free kindergarten year, which we will negotiate in intensive negotiations from next year onwards, as already set out in the Article 15a agreement. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e38312	Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e38334	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! I would like to address those families that, from my point of view, have very special challenges to overcome, namely families in which children with disabilities also live. Ladies and gentlemen, I know that there will also be an increase in family allowances for children with disabilities. We will also invest € 14.1 million more in this area next year. There are approximately €500 000 for counsellors, for priority counsellors in the budget; and there is also about €450 000 for the schoolbook action, including especially for schoolbooks for blind children. These are important measures for parents living with disabled children. But – and there really is the big but – I believe that in the area of support for families with children with disabilities, Austria – no matter what political level you work – has to do more. Families with children with disabilities are often left very alone; they have very difficult conditions when the child comes into the world, they have to find themselves in a new world, and I therefore believe that we really need to invest more in this area. One has to go to create one-stop shops to which these families can contact, where they can get advice and learn where they can get support – be it in the therapy area, whether in the field of mobile support, whether it be in the area of childcare services et cetera, et cetera. This is currently very unevenly regulated in Austria. There is support from the federal government, there is support from the country. I mean, Mrs Minister, you have to sit down in this area and find rules so that families are not sent anywhere, but that there are offers to which families can turn so that you can really know how to best care for children with disabilities, even taking into account the siblings, because they are very often left behind because of the serious situation of care for children with disabilities. I would also like to address one point, Mrs Minister, which has been addressed in connection with the Kindergarten Act or the compulsory kindergarten year. While kindergartens are compulsory, children with disabilities are excluded. They have said in the Committee – and it is always presented in such a way – that this is for the protection of children. Yes, it may be, but behind this protection there are often situations on the ground, which is why a mayor, a mayor – not at all malicious – simply says: We have no place for this child. I believe that, in this area, all children need to have kindergarten lighting – really for all children – so that children with disabilities can also be disabled. This duty, I say now, can actually benefit. This is a point which I would like to make quite a big request in this area. On the other hand, I am convinced that there is a need for family relief offers, facilities where children with disabilities can live in families. We urgently need such offers – whether it be for mobile care or for day care. Mr Strasser and I were only recently at an institution offering this. But this always happens on the initiative of the parents. I mean, it really needs legal regulations, because it really needs appropriate legislation, on the basis of which such advice agencies, such offers – whether mobile care, or day care – can actually be implemented, so that parents can sometimes get out of the care and find time and regain strength for themselves and the healthy siblings. I believe that this is a very important area, which we now have to look at together, regardless of the budget, and in which we must ensure that these families are best supported. My final sentence, Mrs Minister: I would really ask you, as my colleague Kucharovich has already mentioned, to work in your party to ensure that family is viable for all people, including those who flee from war and crisis areas, so that these people can live in a family. Please consider the changes in the family merger once more and have a little effect on your party! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e38391	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Kassinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e38412	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! As President-in-Office of the FPÖ, I would like to speak on this item on the agenda, because I would like to clarify the following: We voted against this reduction in the additional wage costs, although we are, in principle, naturally in favour of reducing the additional wage costs – but please not in this area, not on the back of our families, not on the back of our children, not on the back of our future! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. That's just not true and touching! That's wrong!]] - I'll charge you right now. Previously, Mr Schwentner correctly noted that FLAF is the most important family policy instrument, especially when it comes to reducing family poverty. Let's look at the numbers! The FLAF is equipped with about €6 billion. With the reduction you are planning from 2017, we only have more than €5 billion in FLAF. So you take about $1 billion away. FLAF is making a plus of €300 million this year. If I take 1 billion € away now, then we need – and now I don't have to be a major mathematician – not to talk about the repayment of debt into the reserve fund, but the debt will either rise or, which is to be expected, the benefits from FLAF will be reduced. - But not with us! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What is still taking place in the area of the responsibility of the Minister for Family Affairs is the cross-subsidisation of funds which should be spent on families, but which flow to the home of Mr Hundstorfer, that is, to the Ministry of Social Affairs. It's also known. That's not what we're talking about 3,50 €, but 1,3 billion €. In your ministry, you have the following effect goal in the budgets with identical text for 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, according to the system Copy-and-paste: We will now negotiate with the Ministry of Social Affairs so that FLAF does not have to pay FLAF-related services to that extent. – It is exactly nothing! – If you have it inside in 2016, at least until now nothing has happened. [[Federal Minister Karmasin: You don't know what happened!]] [[Federal Minister Karmasin: Negotiations are...!]] – Yes, I ask you to do so, or try to finally stand up in the interministerial struggle with Mr Hundstorfer! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The Austrian People's Party is closed for a short while: We have, so to speak, a myth, a differentiation between deeds and words. The Austrian People's Party always claims to be a family party. – Now we have the shiny proof that you have provided here that you are not a family party! [[Abg. Tamandl: That's great!]] The Austrian People's Party always claims to be an economic party. – With the tax reform, with the collective reform, you have provided the shiny proof that you are not an economic party! The Austrian People's Party always claims to be a People's Party. – You provide proof every day that you are not a national party, in the face of the migration flows!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e38519	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Franz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e38540	Mr President. Minister! High house! I have to contradict you – don't, but! We're a family party, because you have to see the whole package. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kitzmüller.]] You need to see the total package that comes out under the line! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[New call of the abg. Kitzmüller.]] If I am able to reduce the additional wage costs by the service provider's contribution, which is reduced, which is one of the most essential objectives that all political groups have been calling for in this House for a long time, then this is a useful goal. This will create jobs. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwentner.]] When we look at the total amounts that will be made available in the overall package, we see that the family allowance will be increased by €830 million to double the amount of the child allowance. The new tax reform totals €1.6 billion, so families receive an average of € 1 550 to €1 600. I think that's not nothing, but on the contrary: That's a lot! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kitzmüller.]] We all know the tense situation of the budget, and we know the demographic situation. It is very important to make redeployments in this situation and not to focus everything on the question of ‘FLAF: yes or no?’. Today the student ticket has also been addressed more often. – Please, this is a matter of the Ministry of Transport and not of the Ministry of Family Affairs. This must be financed from there. Tag Ticket: Let's look over the border! Of course, air is up in family policy, of course you can always do a little better. There are countries in Europe which have a significantly higher birth rate, for example France. Why Have do you have this higher birth rate? – In fact, it is true – at least there – that higher cash performance, a higher proportion of gross domestic product – in France it is 4 percent – has caused a promotion of the birth rate. The multi-children's family in France is clearly favoured by the tax system. This is something we could consider together for the next few years. We could even consider basic stories and values together, for example: We are now holding the debate on the refugees, the new culture, the cultural change that comes upon us. One can face this critically – I think, too – but one of the Muslims is ahead of us: The value of the family and the value of child war is not equal to that of us. In this regard, we must ask ourselves throughout Europe whether we have not wasted too much energy on the liberalisation of abortion at the expense of families and the war on children. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e38625	Mr Walser spoke next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e38674	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Mr Franz, you now have experience in several parties and you can reproduce the relevant content here, but with regard to the last comment on abortion, I can only say: I mean, think about it. Please consider this, and consider how your party, the ÖVP, and also the dedicated women who exist in your party, stand to do so, and that these actually consider the current regime acceptable as they have confirmed it – most of it. I already hear other statements, but that's just on the back side, that doesn't fit into the 21st century. ==References== [[Congratulations with the Greens, with representatives of the SPÖ and the Abg. Gamon.]] Take – you have referred to it, and your colleague, Prince, has referred to it before – also the child rate: Yes, we are not quite at the end, but relatively at the end of the European states. And why are we there? – Let’s look at the countries! You mentioned France. Let's look at the Scandinavian countries where we have two-, three-, four-year-olds, which are well over 50 percent, up to 80 percent. Why? – Because it is possible for single women or men to unite work and family because there are appropriate childcare facilities because there are cribs. In Norway, for example, the baby crib is free, and in France this system is expanded. Why don't you talk about it and put it down? Your commitment towards expanding these facilities! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Straster.]] This means we are in the so-called free-second kindergarten year. Mr. Strasser, you mentioned that the glass was under this scheme – 80 percent? – 80 percent full. If the glass is 80 percent full, then the 80 percent hot air. The water in it is up to 20 percent, because what we have with the second kindergarten is a compromise. And the many inscriptions and messages you received! I brought along the reactions I got on it. [[The speaker holds up a box described as a bundle.]] People say it's embarrassing to provide this second kindergarten year with an opt-out option. I mean, where are we in 2015? - It can't be! Let us take consistent steps and also take realistic steps! If the ÖVP and the SPÖ decide on this second kindergarten year, but at the same time say it costs nothing, then that is the square of the circle. How do you want to do this, Mrs. Ministe-in? – In the educational package presented last week, it is free of charge, which will not bring any additional costs. [[Federal Minister Karmasin: No!]] That's what I'm excited about! Article 15a agreements are pending. However, we cannot expect the implementation of 2016, otherwise it would have to be in this budget. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude: I would say that it would be time to imagine reality, it would be time to introduce realistic budgets. - This isn't one.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e38729	The next speaker is Mr Lipitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e38750	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Just one word to my colleague Franz: I think that the Top Youth Ticket is the responsibility of the Family Allowance Fund and belongs in the family sector, not in the transport sector. But we like to talk about where something belongs. We may have more to unravel in this area, but I think this belongs here. The Federal Minister has said that the budget is rising slightly. – Yes, that’s right, and for me it was important to ensure that the increase for family support is also discounted accordingly – we know: 1.9 percent now and 1.9 percent 2018. But what is even more important to me is that this extension of the Article 15a agreement is clearly explained here for the countries, because it is about increasing the quality of the extension of these children's facilities. It is, I think, an important point for families in particular, that they have the opportunity to connect work and family accordingly. Therefore, thank you for the opportunity to make available this money, this €70 million, for the next three years as well. We will, of course, have a lot to do with it next year, because the education reform, as it is now presented, will need further measures if a second compulsory kindergarten year is to come. However, I would like to say one more point which I have noticed, namely: Men who are child care workers actually remained behind the Ministry's expectations in 2013 and 2014 when looking at these figures, and an increase of 0.8 percent is planned for this year. The measures to pursue your objectives are as follows: ‘The aim is to increase father participation by granting child care and increasing the application of fatherly reference and information on the different reference variants.’ I'm here with you, that's very, very important. However, I would like to come to the point of reference variants here, because the decision is very difficult for many families at this time, or if parents have to choose it before, often very difficult to decide which variant they should take. I think – you also said today that the children’s money account should come in 2017 – that we should negotiate and implement it as soon as possible. I mean, this is first of all a clear simplification for families, but also an administrative simplification that goes hand in hand. Finally, I would like to say a short word on tax reform, because of which the families also have a lot: 90 percent of this €5 billion tax relief will be granted to small and medium-sized earners, and I think the families in particular are located in this area and will benefit most from it. It's quite, very important. tig that, even if it is only 220 €, a step was finally taken in the area of child allowance. The fact that we have increased this is also important, I believe. It is important in all cases that we force the development of childcare facilities so that people can agree on the job and family accordingly. I think this budget shows a clear path in the area of expansion, but also financial assistance for the family. I think we are strengthening the families here; we should continue this path.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e38806	Next speaker: Mrs Mühlberghuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e38827	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The budget of the breakdown of families and youth consists primarily of the budget of the family compensation fund. Much has been said about FLAF today. Family aid is also paid from this fund. In 2016, €3.3 billion will be spent on about 1.7 million children and young people. Even for children living in the EU/EEA region whose parents work in Austria, family allowances must be paid without taking into account the actual cost of living abroad. A total of more than 24 000 children living abroad in 2014 received the Austrian family allowance. Thus, €223 million was transferred – which is €16 million more than in the previous year, in 2013. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it would be useful to adjust payments from Austria to the level of the cost of living of each country. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] An adjustment of family aid to actual cost of living would be socially justified and would, on the other hand, bring savings to millions. But now I have to come to the ÖVP: Already in 2010, the then State Secretary and now Klubobmann Lopatka proposed to bind the calculation of payments made by Austria to the cost of living in that country where the child lives. [[Abg. Kitzmüller: That was very reasonable!]] ==References== In June 2015, “The Press” reported on the high payments to family aid that are going abroad, and Mr Sebastian Kurzs says: “Austria transfers EUR 300 for two children under the age of ten” – living in Romania. The Romanian family allowance is only 30 euros.’ The Foreign Minister speaks of emergency measures, and he says: [[Abg. Kitzmüller: Yes!]] “We see this like the British: UK wants reforms within the EU, and this must be done quickly.” [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kitzmüller: Eben!]] ==References== November, Klubobmann Lopatka, in an interview with the daily newspaper “The Press” in this context, clearly stated – I quote – that: “The expectation of club members is that we are coming to work from the speech”. (...) There is a ‘massive desire’ to change.’ [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kitzmüller: (in the direction of ÖVP)... vote in favour! No problem!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] Mr Klubobmann Lopatka becomes even more clear when he makes it clear in this interview that Austria should “not wait for a solution to this issue at European level”. "More often, all changes that are possible in accordance with EU law would have to be implemented on their own. Even if it is risked that such a new regime will then be repealed at EU level." [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kitzmüller: application!]] [[Abg. Haider: They only like this...!]] Well, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, now you can prove whether you are standing up to what you are talking about. That is why I am now putting forward a request for your support. [[Calls and calls between Members Schönegger, Haider and Schimanek]] [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e39005	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Mühlberghuber is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e39107	Next speaker: Mrs Fichtinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e39128	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! It has already been discussed a lot yesterday and today on the subject of budget and families. Families are disturbed, it's all spoken badly, it's said that everything there is is nothing. – I really wonder for myself that when women listen to this, they decide to have children at all. It's really sad to hear that! I must stress once again that a lot has been done for the families over the last two years, and this will continue in the future. – I just have to repeat that again. With regard to the increase in child support, it appears as if it would not be secured: It is assured that the supplement for disabled children and multi-child families will also be paid. School start-up assistance is always done this way; after all, it is automatically available every year for six to fifteen years. And because the monthly disbursement of the family aid is so smiled and you say that the ÖVP is not a popular party – I myself am mayor –: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kitzmüller]] We have the eye and the ear very well with the citizen and we hear for ourselves how grateful and happy the women or the small families are, for example, that the family allowance is paid monthly or that the inapplicable family support now really works so uncomplicated. [[Abg. Kitzmüller: A “talk” step, yes, but...!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] These are all good things. [[Abg. Kitzmüller: It won't be anymore! Even if paid monthly, it won't be big anymore!]] – Yes, but it’s still a relief! It's just... it's all bad-talked. You can say about everything, that's nothing – and yet it's positive things! I would like to address an important point – and I would like to thank our family minister for this – since I am a mayor myself and have created a project myself, especially this childcare project for zero to two and a half years – Article-15a agreement. We have started a project ourselves for 13 communities, in which we have appointed the caretakers at an association, which actually works wonderfully. A very, very important point for this to happen and remain in this way is that in the years 2014 to 2018 additional € 827.8 million is needed, and that is not a small amount. I would like to address one point, namely the audit family friendly community: This is also an important area, because after all, all generations sit together in the family, look at the situation, look at what is necessary, what families really need, what is needed to support young families in order to help them in emergency situations. It is done a lot for the families. This begins with the children's playground, which is also important for the families, and goes to the possibility of childcare so that – and this is still a matter of women – the family and the profession can be well reconciled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e39193	The next speech is by Mr Schmid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e39214	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! I am talking about family, youth and education. – Youth, education and family should be the highest goods in a state, but most of the local population does not give the Federal Government a particularly good witness. The basis for a successful life course is education. Working groups to rename school types do not constitute educational reform. In addition, taxpayers are used anything but meaningful. The unending wave of refugees now leads to a dramatic increase in the number of students – mainly in elementary classes. Not only the increased number of students, but also linguistic ignorance are problems that can endanger sustainable school success. People's schools, in particular, are a foundation for education. Lack of schooling is a problem for young people, which leads to unemployment and thus devours a total of taxpayers' money. Youth is a positive way of life in the profession up to the formation of a family. The classical family from father, mother and children is also to be promoted. The same applies to single mothers. However, families also need appropriate housing, which is hardly manageable now, which threatens the establishment and stock of a family. Austria is not known to have a revenue problem but an expenditure problem. Education, youth and family trains are to reassess these expenditures with respect to some of the EU's requirements, for example, billions of heavy payments to Greece or its marode banks, and to make use of the funds in their own country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e39252	The next speaker was Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e39288	Mr President. Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The family is a heavy-duty Every state – we have already heard that – and I believe that this is also necessary. Let us look at the budget figures for the sub-group 25, families and youth! How much money is there for families and youth? – 2016 is € 7.89 billion; € 67.3 billion more than 2015. In general, the birth is marked by the family tax compensation fund, which has already been mentioned by Mrs. Kitzmüller, who is mainly fed from the service providers' contributions – around 82.5 percent – and from means of taxation – 16.1 percent. The balance of family expenses is also the central instrument for financing. The main reasons for the additional expenditure are: higher transfers to social security funds – plus €100 million –, pension contributions for child education periods – plus € 60.8 million – and weekly money – plus € 37 million. In addition, Mrs Mühlberghuber, Mrs. Minister, said: plus €80.5 million in family allowances. Mrs Minister, I think it is necessary to see exactly where family allowances are going. I think we need the family allowance in our state for our families and for no one else! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e39328	Next, Mr Pock. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e39349	Mr President. Estimated Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the heat of the fight, the application no longer went out. First of all, I would like to say: We have now discussed much less about FLAF than thought – €3 billion more in government debt and a reduction in additional pay, which is far too low; € 780 million for entrepreneurs. We NEOS have already spoken on several occasions of an order of almost €4 billion, which would be the air that would be so urgent for the companies. I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Something similar is already in the government programme, Mrs Minister, you also have it; it is a matter of urgency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e39403	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Pock is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e39651	Next speaker: Mrs Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e39672	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Above all, however, dear spectators on TV screens! There's something you need to explain. You defend yourself – you have to defend yourself, that is quite clear – but: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Strasser]] Qui s’excuse, s’accuse, who defends himself, complains; you have proved this well now. They defend themselves with the claim that the opposition is only a little tighter. All of you, as you are sitting here, have also received the letter of the family associations, all of which are accredited at your place of business, so to speak. All seven associations, including the ÖVP family association and the red children's friends, have now protested against this measure and have clearly described it as a family-anti-family and politically short-sighted – by the way, one can only fully join it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They reduce the revenue for the fund in two stages, so that from 2018 – it has already been said, I repeat it, that is significant – 1 billion € less income. They say that nothing will be shortened – that will have to be put forward – and you say he achieves surpluses. And there you can see how wrong Your approach is because: What is a fund? – A fund is a disbursed sum of money, so to speak, a reserve, for a specific purpose. That means it's not in the budget. It is deprived of the political ups and downs, the change of the parties, of the change of governments. Why? - Because that's so important. This was set up in 1954 as if it were clear that there would be the charging procedure. A sufficient number of children are not part of the social state, but their condition. If the generation contract does not work, there will also be no secure pension – therefore: a separate fund that cannot be affected. What You now do, is that you use this fund as a buffer for the budget – by the way, not for the first time. It's a volume that's supposed to be stable, but you're massively reducing revenue. On the surpluses, once again: Why are there, as it were, surpluses? – First, because the family allowance has been increased by 4 percent for the first time since 14 years last year – for 14 years, 4 percent! During the same period, the inflation rate was 38 percent. Secondly, however, it is of course not used for this moment, and one can clear it out a little because the birth rate is on an unprecedented low. You don't know that from history! This is, of course, a disaster, because this very connection between birth rate and social security will soon become even more apparent; it has long been evident in pensions. Regarding Mrs Holzinger's speech: There are many reasons for this low birth rate. It is a change in values, a change in life forms, but it also has material reasons. Mrs Minister, you may know – or do not know what would be unfortunate – that a massive family policy debate has been taking place in France for three weeks. In Paris, the reasons for the drop in birth rates are disputed, and the opposition and the family associations clearly trace this drastic breakdown to a reduction in family benefits – that is, no mention of the fact that there would only be some improvement in benefits in kind, but the context is clearly described. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If family bishop Küng can say that children are the safest way to poverty, then the fund has no surpluses but quite the contrary. With the role you have played here, you have massively damaged the scope for family policy in the next few years. The role you play, Mrs Minister – I cannot spare you the floor – is clear. If you want to do this, this is your business; but for the families in Austria, it is disastrous that they have to suffer the consequences. I know so many of you, from the ÖVP, I can't believe it, and of course I don't believe you don't understand the contexts. You just never take things very seriously. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Gerhard Schmid.]] [[Pointing towards SPÖ bank series:]] I'm not expecting anything. – Well, you have a concept: strong state, individuals down there, and family is actually a historically outdated relic. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: Who says that?]] [[Abg. Gisela Worm: Where did you get this?]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] [[Looking towards ÖVP bank series:]] But you don't see it like that, I know, you can't see it like this, and I ask you to really think about it and make yourself clear that it's about the core – actually about the core of your world view, as well as about the core of our country!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e39770	Subdivision 25: Families and young people, no more words are available to me. The discussions on this subject have therefore ended. [[17:48:26]] UG 30: Education and women
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e39794	We come to the negotiation of subheading 30: Education and women. As the first speaker, Mr Rosenkranz spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e39819	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! Yes, budget education: We know that there are a number of important issues in education, including the question of how special funding will take place in our education system, how money is used efficiently. There has recently been a so-called paper, which is said to have been described as a reform of education. – Well, they are statements of intent and headlines; that’s all. I would now like to focus on a subject in detail. Mr. State Secretary Mahrer, whom I have already quoted today in the debate on art and culture, has meant that this educational reform, this paper, is “almost hot”. – Well, I don't know how he pulls his horizon there, what he feels. One thing I would like to work out quite clearly: What has remained of this school administration reform, from the heading “Education Directorate ”? – The word ‘education’, which we have already heard, has existed since Mrs. Schmied, and the whole thing is now replacing the National School Council. The Council of State Schools is an institution of the Federal Central Government with the head of state as President; where it is established or established by law, there is a Deputy President and a College which is: Teachers, parents, political representatives according to the proportion. That's where you've been, and that's what you've done. Those bodies, in which teachers, parents and the political parties – all of them according to a certain order – are inside, which cost nothing, but through which at least one gets an insight into certain facts, in certain processes, that is done once and for all. What costs nothing is once the great administrative savings. And then there's something completely new – and I really couldn't believe it when Mrs. Minister told me that in the Budget Committee; I wanted to know what this is, direct or indirect federal administration – a common authority of the federal government and countries; there will have to be a change in the entire federal constitution. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Moser.]] What's going on with that? – It's a federal authority. Question: Then who will bear the costs? The national officials come in there, but it's a federal authority. All this has to be negotiated in detail. Who's in front of this? – The head of state as President, as well as the Council of State Schools, there is only a treat there: It must make an opt-in at the beginning of the five-year period of education management or of the educational director, because it is a temporary service relationship or a temporary function, and whether it wants to use the law. So these are things, when I talked to them about it, constitutional lawyers just shook their heads. In fact, they have said that this is the continuation of the national school councils without colleges – just hold a little more complicated; some have meant that too. I would now understand if Mr Mahrer, the State Secretary, meant that it was “almost horny”, because this is nothing but a blockade by the ÖVP for any SPÖ approaches in education. You have to make that up in the coalition. There you can clap your hands, you can be happy, because now something will come as an additional administrative agenda: Within the framework of this so-called autonomy package, basic democratic school community committees, in which teachers, students and parents are to sit inside, are, of course, used as advisory bodies of the Director. That is, at every school this is done now. This will, of course, lead to a corresponding bloating in the framework of this autonomous package. I'm just saying one thing: This example of administrative reform in the school authorities alone shows that nothing has actually happened at all. They have made labels dizzy, and the whole thing is still in a constitutional area that is complete new land; it is thrown overboard any tradition, and the whole thing with uncertain output – that is nothing but pure headlines. It can only be hoped that the paper on which this whole school reform is printed is old paper, because if a tree had to die for it, it would really be a pity, given what is on that reform paper. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There are a few motions for resolutions by opposition parties that have already been avant us; just one word on this: We will reject these, because, in reality, these applications – I am thinking above all of NEOS’ requests – are just as well as the headline in the reform paper. The resolution itself is simply not acceptable, because these are just words – that is, that the government and the parties now have to sit down to design a paper against the post-achter. You don't have to be so complicated, you just have to say: We want the postman, we want party politics outside!, but we don't want to come back with any words like the government. [[Abg. Stroll: You have to do it...! White elephants...! White elephants...! I can't do that!]] Mr Strolz, don't adjust to your style of government, because otherwise you can't agree! And you don't have to be artificially upset, Mr Strolz, that is harmful to health!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e39867	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Grossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e39889	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, we have clearly drawn attention to the speech by Mr Rosenkranz: He is against everything and for nothing, above all he wants to stick to the politicization of school life. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kitzmüller.]] Today, however, we are talking about the budget; of course, we are still talking about the reform of education. The Education Budget 2015 and 2016 also became more enjoyable. We're growing up in a wise way. In 2015, the structural gap accumulated over years was also offset, which, as we know, has been created by the fact that many valuable, jointly agreed measures were not sufficiently covered by the respective relevant finance ministers, for example, the reduction of the maximum number of class students, team teaching in the New Middle School, but also the pay-valorizations to mention just a few examples. The Minister of Education has been able to carry out a successful work of conviction at Minister of Finance Schelling, so that budgetary truthfulness and clarity could be established at least once for 2015. There was certainly a very convincing effort by the department for a disciplined budget execution. This is, of course, also continued through the educational reform, but it does not need to be saved in classrooms; of course, this is particularly important to me. On the contrary: In the classroom, directly with the students, resources are increased – only through the expansion of the entire day's school range in compulsory schools and federal schools, also in the form of team teaching in the New Middle School, by the introduction of the modular upper level, the expansion of the vocational orientation, the education of teachers New, the further development of inclusive education in the model regions to be broadcast throughout Austria, by the use of digital learning forms, in order to name but a few. Adult education, free repetition of educational qualifications, basic education are also very important measures, because everyone deserves a second or third chance. These are all essential measures to be continued, of course, these are measures that keep our society together and develop it further. Every euro, every cent invested in education, is well-created money, is an investment in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e39940	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Walser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e39961	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! I would like to start with a quote from Robert Jungk: ‘The sentence no longer applies: For they do not know what they are doing. Today it must be called: They do not do what they know.” This is true in many respects; it is true with regard to the budget, but it is also right with regard to what we have been presented last week – the government's proposals on education reform. However, I should like to say one thing, Mr Rosenkranz: A little more differentiated can be addressed in an educational debate already on the government's proposals, because a few things are inside that we can accept and must, where, I believe, we are well advised to work together – also because we really have reforms in the sense of a better school system. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz:... four minutes!]] With a total refusal, as you do, we will not continue to do so. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] Col. Grossmann, you said that the budgetary truth was created at least for 2015. – We all know that the law that we decide here is not the truth for the coming year; just as we knew when we decided on the double budget, that this cannot last. It's confirmed. I can predict to the government parties today that not only will the €300 million we have this year, for this year, will be too little, for which we need a supplementary budget decision, but that – I think – at least €500 or € 550 million will be missing. That's what we're deciding today. In fact, I believe that a sound budgetary policy looks different. Let me also lose a few words on education reform: We have some steps in there that we support. Progress can be seen in the elementary pedagogical field, even if central areas are not addressed there – the word "higher qualification" for kindergarten pedagogists. We have, however, received proposals from the government, particularly in two areas, which need to be significantly expanded. I refer, on the one hand, to the so-called model regions of the common school, which, as it stands in the paper, is a contradiction in itself, because if you can use only 15 percent of the school types in each case, this means, for example, for the state of Vorarlberg, that a single AHS could participate. A common school doesn't look like that. This has to be clearly stated, as there is a need for intensification, and that is a huge need for intensification. In the field of school administration, I would also believe that this concept of education management in the proposed form is anything but a simplification of administration. The parallel structure of the federal government and the country is being continued, and there is no question of depowering the princes of the country. There are still structures that even allow direct access, namely if the national leaders in the education departments have the say – and this is at least possible. We have huge tasks in front of us. The OECD did not confirm to us until yesterday that the Austrian education system is completely at the end of the day with regard to justice. The production of education justice, ladies and gentlemen, is very much linked to the concept of the common school, because – and this confirms to us the OECD – the biggest problem is the much too early separation of children at nine and a half years. This continues what has to be observed over and over again in recent years, namely that children are hardly able to acquire higher education qualifications than their parents. There is Austria with 21 percent very far behind, and there are countries that create 50 percent and partly more. We must therefore work hard to achieve this, and we must make great efforts, especially in the negotiations for the implementation of these education directives. Both Minister of Finance Schelling and Ms Heinisch-Hosek have said: The concept must be cost-neutral. Ladies and gentlemen, it will not play. We cannot introduce an index-based allocation of resources – by the way, this is still in the concept, which has been promised, does not stand inside at all – we cannot admit to teachers, parents and students school autonomy and say: It can't cost anything, it can't cost anything. We must already be aware that this will cost money in an implementation phase – money that is inside the system. President of the Court of Auditors Moser repeatedly points out that there is a lot of money in the administration. I think there's the 6 million euros you're looking for, a lot too little. There's more to come here. Col. Rosenkranz! With regard to the proposal that NEOS will bring together with us: What can you do about it? – It is about de-party politicization of the school system. That's what you're saying: Headings. These are motions for resolutions. The government is being asked to do so, Parliament says: Yes, we, the chosen orders, want the party political influence to be minimized on the school system to be abolished. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Read the resolution! Read the text before!]] As you can be against it, you have to explain it to me. That is completely incomprehensible to me. [[Congratulation with greens and NEOS.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It's a lot to do. This budget also includes some cases, some areas that we will look very closely at, for example, the reduction in alternative schools by €46 000. I can't understand. That's not a big amount. But we have to spend more money here, because these schools are doing great things. They are the salt in the pedagogical soup we have in Austria. These schools need support and no reduction. So there, I think we need to look more closely at this. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Stroll.]] The language promotion courses, ladies and gentlemen, which are limited to two years each, can not continue. We need stability in our schools, we need clear legal regulations, and we need a permanent facility to guarantee the linguistic support of children. Finally, Mrs. Minister: The government has decided €75 million for integration measures. The Minister of Integration wants to keep all these serious issues in his department as a whole for semi-pleasured language courses. That can't be, it can't be! In education, in education, we have the appropriate know-how. There we have also promoted the children and the young people, and these belong to them. If it has to be and we cannot loosen other money in the short term, it has to be provided for this purpose. I urge you to fight for these funds too. Finally, I remember Robert Jungk. “Because they don’t know what they are doing” was once. If we don't, it's true today. “They don’t do what they know.”
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e40053	Next speaker: Mrs Jank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e40075	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Today we have a budget to discuss and decide, which is likely to be the last of its kind in this form, if we assume that we are actually implementing the education reform, which is now on the table. If we implement the rather ambitious programme by June of next year and have everything legislative under the roof and subject, then the next budget will also be different. There will be other targets than this budget. However, I would like to make a few comments on the school itself and then on the reform process. School is an educational institution, but school is also a service provider. School provides service to students and gives the promise that these students have acquired certain skills at a certain time. In other words, there must be competition between schools, and this idea of competition must be strengthened. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The OECD has been addressed. Yes, the OECD has mentioned in its report a number of areas to be discussed. But we also need to take note of what we can say positively for ourselves. With our middle and higher education, we enable pupils to get into work without problems. In other words, we have a school form, which exists only in a few countries, a school form that proves that it is good because the school is a good one. In the case of a student, he or she shall be able to enter a professional activity in a smooth manner. I would also like to stress what Mr Schmid actually saw as a disadvantage and criticised. Every single NEET is one too much – I would like to stress that already. But the number of NEETs, i.e. the young people who are “Not in Education, Employment or Training”, is very low in Austria in the OECD comparison. Youth unemployment is low. Every single unemployed person is one too much, but we also have to acknowledge that we stand well. We must not forget that, due to the economic and financial crisis, we are in the most difficult economic times we have had for decades. This, of course, plagues us at all corners and ends. I therefore believe that the educational reform is at the right time. This reform paper contains six measures, three of which I would like to address shortly after my speaking time. First: It is about strengthening the elementary area. It is about expanding the kindergarten, which is being strengthened as the first educational institution. We are introducing an educational compass to accompany a young person during his education career at the end of the day, but perhaps also in adult education and training. We need to focus more on redesigning the school entrance phase: What skills do children take to school? Teachers Ask Me: Why haven't you been thinking about the transition from folk school to a secondary school for a long time? – Even in the secondary schools, teachers often do not know with which skills the children come to them. We also deal with this in the context of education reform. Secondly, the autonomy package: I've said it many times, and I'm saying it this time too. I think autonomy, i.e. the transfer of responsibility directly to the school, is a central point of this reform. This strengthens the teachers, but of course we also need to train them accordingly. School managers should be school managers at the end of the day. There will have to be clusters, as is already partly the case today, so that a director, a director, is responsible for several schools. But the headmaster chooses his team himself. I consider team education and a good team to be the crucial factor in school. Only a good team stands together and seeks the right measures and the right support for each individual student. Of course, autonomy – and we will have to change a bit – also belongs to a financial autonomy. Thirdly, the finances: There is also something very innovative in this programme – an educational innovation package, consisting of the wide-ranging connection of each school to the broadband network. The Minister of Education has pointed out in the Committee that there are talks with the Minister of Infrastructure in this regard to ensure that all schools are connected across the board – until the school gate, if I have understood you correctly. But I mean, of course, the connection must continue in the schoolhouse. We need broadband connection, we must not sleep digitalisation. In any case, we are not far advanced on this issue compared with other countries. But this is a central point. The second important point in this educational innovation package is the Education Foundation. Now I'm back at the competition I mentioned earlier. This educational foundation will provide the opportunity to generate additional resources for schools in a competition – in a competition of the best ideas. Ladies and gentlemen! We know from the sport that excellence is crucial. Why don't we do this in school? – Therefore: We want an excellent school system, and with the education reform we take the essential steps in this direction. I invite everyone – including colleagues from the opposition, even though I am aware that they cannot go along with everything, even if we are aware of it ourselves, even within the government parties, that it needs compromises. Please don't talk about this educational reform, even before it starts! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e40150	Mr Klubobmann is now speaking for Dr. Strolz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e40171	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear citizens on the screens at home and on the go, wherever! We are talking about the budget, about the Education chapter and look at the year 2016, what it brings to education. The question is: Can the six political groups here in the National Council agree to this budget, particularly in the field of education? I think anyone who is serious about his job in this House as a Member of Parliament, whether opposition or government party, cannot agree to this budget, is quite simply not possible, because this is not compatible with the honourable Member's position. I can also justify this, Mrs. Minister. 90 minutes ago, the written confirmation from you came to our question that you are going into 2016 with an undercover. You confirm in writing that you enter with an undercover, but not with any, but with an undercover of say and write 550 million € in the field of education. That is, you will enter this school year with a cover of more than half a billion euros. In no other budget area, in no other area of society, we have such a structural undercover. You know, if we convert it, you're missing the money in the budget for more than 11,000 teachers. This can't seriously find the consent of anyone in here. This is not a genuine budgeting. This does not have to do with serious planning for a very important area of our society. Mrs Minister, I don't understand! This is also a point on which you, as Minister, can say: Mr Finanzminister, I cannot accept it. As a minister, I must also, in fact, remove the sails and say that I cannot continue with such a budget. The fact that the Federal Government is dealing with the education sector as sluggishly as with no other budget area is, for me, in a way of emphasizing that I can hardly put it in words because it expresses what priority it has. If it's just flowering, if it doesn't matter that half a billion is missing, and we're pretending nothing, then it can only be an expression of the fact that it has zero priority. It's not important to us, is the message. I can't take it any different, Mrs. Minister. That's unacceptable! Last year we had to shoot 350 million € with an authorisation law to exceed the budget. At that time we needed a special meeting – called up by NEOS at the end of April – until we knew that there was a false amount of € 350 million. Don't make the same number again now! This time you already have full clarity at the beginning of the budget year, and the gap is even greater. I do not understand the world, nor do I understand how the seriousness of cooperation between the government and Parliament can be preserved when such figures are on the table and here the agreement of the government parties comes. Furthermore, there is the question of increasing the effectiveness and efficiency that we have also asked. They refer here in the written information to the educational reform, which took place on 17 November. It was presented in November, Mrs. Minister. Of course, we both know that you cannot increase efficiency in 2016; that is, even from the educational reform, there is nothing to do here for the next budget year. It's just too short-term, maybe it's to do something in the medium term. This is, of course, primarily the address of the Minister for Finance. I would also like to support you in this fight. Austria has fallen significantly in the area of investment in education between 1995 and 2011 when comparing the share of GDP. In 1995, 4.2 percent of GDP was invested in the school sector, and in 2011 we arrived at 3.6 percent. That means it's going down. While countries have invested more internationally in the OECD section during the same period, we have less investment. At the same time, this trend hardens. In 2013, we invested 3.1 percent of GDP, while the OECD average invested 3.7 percent. So we're losing the connection internationally. They say – and this is what the OECD says – but nevertheless Austria spends relatively much money per student, more than on the international average. Here too, the OECD is putting the slide. The question is: If it's more than on average, where's the money going? – The explanation is: It's sluggishing somewhere in the administrative structure. “The Austrian federal system is characterized by large volumes of fiscal transfers between different levels of the public sector,” says the technocratic system. Then comes this educational reform. We create an education management as a mixed authority, a hybrid that will not, at least, displace power policy from the field of education. Unfortunately, this is not the case, because the head of state can make himself the president of this education management again. That is why, also to the address of the FPÖ, it must be clear that Harald Walser and I have agreed to this request. I don't understand, Mr Rosary, that you say you can't do that. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Read the resolution!]] [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr Rosenkranz, first step: common confession; second step: I'm sorry, but I'm not sure that's what I'm talking about. That's easy. I ask for your consent. The second resolution – as 15 per cent to 30 per cent of pedagogical autonomy is to come, I ask you, Mrs Minister, that we make pilot schools here: Motion for a resolution by Mr Magnette. Dr. Matthias Strolz, colleagues on the facilitation of school autonomous pilot projects The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Minister for Education and Women is invited to ensure that all necessary conditions are created as soon as possible in order to establish educational, human resources and financially autonomous pioneer schools in public schools.” This would be important, especially in view of the unsatisfying model regions, as they were avantized.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e40237	The two motions for resolutions tabled and tabled by Mr Klubobmann Dr. Strolz are sufficiently supported and are under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e40337	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e40359	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleague Strolz! With all the understanding of your commitment to education policy, which I appreciate and share, I do not fully understand the disaster mood you are spreading here. The budget, as it stands, is a budget that has been increased, and that in a tense budget situation. [[Abg. Stroll: There's a half a billion missing!]] This budget ensures that the implementation of the legally fixed priorities can continue in the coming years. As far as the structural gap you have referred to is concerned, the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Finance is in most intensive discussions. [[Abg. Stroll: 11,000 teachers!]] There has still been a solution in recent years, and I am optimistic and I believe that there will again be a solution this year, because, of course, all of us are aware of the problem and no one will simply see how schools have slid into a problem. That is to say, a disaster mood is not appropriate in the case of an item, it is being worked together on an appropriate solution. The budget ensures that important issues such as the expansion of day care, the expansion of the New Middle School, the expansion of refugee support – integration measures have been addressed beforehand – the free repetition of school degrees, that these important projects can be continued accordingly. The OECD study presented yesterday has already been addressed, and I believe it contains many important facts. I would like to draw up a point that was presented yesterday, namely the problem of lack of upward mobility in Austria. We know from many studies that opportunities for education in our country are far too high. This has been confirmed to us yesterday by the OECD. In the OECD section, one third of young people are able to obtain higher education than their parents, and we have only one fifth. That is to say, we have a huge need to catch up, whose elimination is very important, on the one hand, with regard to the individual opportunities of children and young people, their prospects for the future, employment and income, on the other hand, and, on the other hand, in all our interest in increasing general prosperity. Therefore, I am very glad that it has succeeded in putting together a package of education, which includes many important measures, measures which are also important steps to move forward here, here in this important area of educational opportunities, up-mobility, measures such as the second free-school year and also measures to make more model regions for the common school, to develop and continue to models of this school. I understand everyone – really! – those who say that the steps are slow, we would have wanted faster steps too, that is not a question, but they are important steps and they are steps in the right direction.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e40409	Mrs Schenk. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a point of order. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e40430	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! It is not the best thing with education policy or with the education sector, I cannot, of course, give my previous speaker the right way. The budgetary situation in the field of education is very tense, and some previous speakers have already mentioned it. With the additional funds of € 106.4 million you can just pay the rent debt to the BIG from 2014, and what the following years will bring is still Very uncertain, this was addressed by the previous speakers. So you really can't talk about a good budgetary situation. Nor can there be any positive mention of the educational reform. One can call them not really successful, one can also call them failed, for there was an opportunity rejected. The Minister has been very committed, I do not want to agree with her, but she has not been able to assert herself to the countries, to the national leaders. As in many areas, there is a lack of resistance from the countries and the national leaders, and this has also been the case with the reform of education. [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Stroll.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Public schools are no longer fulfilling their education mandate. The party policy could not be pushed out of school, out of school administration. In my opinion, the public school sector also offers no equal opportunities, especially for children from socially weak families. I am therefore submitting in this context our request concerning private school for all with educational check-ups. This model of the private school for all is based on the Netherlands, which has gone this way very successfully. Private school for all allows for better competition, and public schools can also participate, and competition gives rise to competition, as you say so beautifully. The introduction of the private school for all, accompanied by an educational check, would be a really new approach, a good solution, a good way for more equal opportunities. The educational check to carry out this would be between €6,000 and €12,000 depending on the child’s need for funding, and parents could then choose whether to finance a private school or a public school for their child with this educational check. I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would, of course, ask for the vote if this request comes to the vote tomorrow. Now I would like to dedicate myself to the chapter on women's budget; we have the Minister for Education and Women here now. There is not much to be said about the women's budget if I can formulate it so salopp once. It's about €10 million, it's remained the same. Yes, you can see this positively when you note that in other areas a lot is saved. With this budget, the breakdowns and expenditure remain roughly the same. There's not much room for action either. 5.7 million go to women's advisory facilities and 4 million will invest in the protection of violence. There will be two new women's counselling facilities, but they will be: Only in the course of time will it be sorted or, if applications are received, viewed, which will be accepted or supported. The amount of €300 000 left is used for campaigns, brochures et cetera. So there is not much room for action, but the budget remains the same, and I think that can be positive. Unfortunately, no money is available for the permanent construction site to increase the number of men in pedagogical professions. We also discussed and discussed this in the Committee. There is no money available for this. And that a change in the recording criteria is enough to make sure that the performance is outstretched, so that it is hoped that more men then apply for this profession, I may doubt. The fact is that a small part, a disappearing part of kindergartens is present. According to Statistics Austria, there are 482 male and 36 610 female kindergartens. I think there's already a need for action, and something has to be done. Here too you, Mrs Minister, are very much required as Minister for Education and Women. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The women's 50+ sector, unfortunately, is not covered by financial resources either. There is nothing in the budget, but that is also a very important area. Of course, I already know that women's policy is a cross-sectional matter, we have to work with all or many ministries, such as the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Health, Social Affairs, et cetera, to loosen resources and to put them together in some way, so that they can also bring about changes, improvements, measures, but everything is going through your table and over you. The area of mobbing has not been addressed at all. There's nothing about it, there's no study, there's no current figures, although we know that especially in schools Mobbing is spreading very quickly, that mobbing from kindergarten to school, beyond leisure time and the profession is a massive problem. We should work on this and not forget this issue. The wave of refugees, asylum problems, women on the run, this is also a subject that we have discussed, and that will continue to concern us in the future. They have already told us that there are talks, including with the Minister of the Interior, with regard to sexual assaults against women in asylum homes. I think there will be something to do financially. I do not know if the funds are sufficient, but I hope so, because there are still many open areas where we do not know where this will develop, what it will eventually look like. We can only gradually see how all this will develop. As I said, Not much new in the budget as regards women, but it remains the same, and that is positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e40545	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Donk is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e40607	Next speaker: Mrs Schittenhelm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e40628	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Schenk has already said that we have a slightly more than 10 million € budget for women. I think that the level of this female budget is not small in times of damping and cuts, because it sets a great deal of action to benefit women. But we also know that women's issues, women's issues, women's policies are a cross-cutting matter. It is all the more important that all departments not only formulate their gender-specific goals – and of course they have achieved this in their budgets – but also. That's what you have to pay attention to. Each department has at least formulated and defined a goal of equality, and that is an essential aspect, as women are present in all areas of life and topic. I don't need to say that, we know that. Dear ladies and gentlemen! In education and women, we have formulated targets for action. The objective of action 2 is to improve equal opportunities and gender equality in education, especially through the provision of adult education and, above all, the introduction of new training for educators, taking particular account of the strengthening of gender skills for teachers and managers. In particular, the impact Objective 4, which provides for a variety of measures to improve comprehensive equality, is an essential area. Of course, a lot has already been achieved in the past. We have been able to achieve success, for example with regard to the proportion of women in supervisory bodies. We had set a target of 25 percent by 2013 and reached 37 percent by 2014. I know we can't be euphoric, we also have to be realistic and work on this goal, but above all we can be optimistic that we can move something very well. High house! One important point that must also be mentioned is, of course, the gender pay Gap, i.e. the difference in income between women and men. It is still true that in the event of equivalent work, women do not get close to the wages that they are entitled to. Although we have made progress, we have only made progress in the marginal field. In case of equivalent work, equal pay must be paid! In order to address the causes, to see where the causes are, we have in the 19th Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are planning a debate with the social partners in order to discuss this and perhaps also to develop solutions to how we can improve it. It cannot be assumed that in 2015 women are still paid up to 23 percent worse than men for equivalent work. Although it was installed a few years ago by the Minister of Labour of the Federal Minister, it has also had positive effects, but not the success that we all wanted. Ladies and gentlemen, this budget also deals with violence against women and girls and violence prevention. And on today's International Day against Violence against Women, I would like to expressly point out this point and remind you that we have a great deal to do in this area, and that we need to be even more involved. Every fifth child in Europe is affected by sexual violence. That's a number we can't leave like that. It is therefore very important to me personally that sufficient resources are available for the protection of women and children, especially girls. In 2014 alone, ladies and gentlemen, the 4 700 children have turned to the Children's Protection Centre and asked for help. You used this phone. It is estimated that more than 20 percent of children are up to the age of 14. Life In Austria, sexual violence has affected year after year. That's a shame, you can't do it any more! It is not only about physical and sexual violence, it is also about stalking, it is also about psychological violence. And we know from many conversations with women that social media are becoming increasingly important to women in the most intimate way. The detailed budget 30.05.01 therefore includes means of combating violence against girls and women and of contributing to ensuring and developing structures for the prevention and protection of victims. However, I would also like to mention the Federal Ministry of the Interior under Minister Hanni Mikl-Leiter. It has made sure that we provide intervention agencies with at least €4 million for anti-violence centres. We need these funds, because these funds are best used if we look at the bans that were imposed in 2014 alone. 7 640 bans were imposed, with 3,000 in Vienna alone. These are the numbers we know that are official. However, we also know, ladies and gentlemen, that it is not done by financial means alone to give women protection and safety. Above all, it also needs a strong self-confidence of the women concerned and above all the awareness of the public and the media, and we should all work together on this.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e40694	Mrs Barbara Rosenkranz has now been reported on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e40719	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! There was no invitation to the negotiations on education reform, which should have been there – whether it would have been useful – namely the family minister, because the second compulsory kindergarten year was also decided. This is surprising, but that will probably have been so, because the second compulsory kindergarten year – i.e. four-year-old children, children from four years of age, mandatory in kindergarten – has probably not been decided as an educational measure, but above all as an integration measure. Almost all four-year-old children now go to kindergarten – but not mandatory. And that's a difference. There are certain stages of life, there is a sibling or there is a death in the family or perhaps a longer illness that has aftereffects, there is no need to give a child, who has just reached kindergarten maturity, to the kindergarten. That is quite reasonable. So why commit? - Just because you see this as an integration measure. But, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, to meet your clientele a little, you have decided a so-called opt-out at least after three months. And this is really an absolute pussy, which also shows that those who have negotiated there don't understand anything about children. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The kindergarten pedagogists, who need to make this level of language and development, are rightly protesting that this burden is imposed on them. That's not easy. You have to explain to someone: You have to bring your child, but you can leave it at home. This is not something you can shift to a kindergarten teacher. I actually feel that's what I'm saying. The Minister for Family Affairs, who was not even present, was able to: In the Committee, by the way, do not explain to us the basis on which this takes place, which training, which criteria it requires. It's all done first. - It's about babies. So I'd be there, honestly, not so salopp. Secondly, If a child does not have this group maturity due to development – and there are a lot of fathers, mothers and also grandparents – and this can be the case at the age of four, and if you say that this corset of a mandatory regular kindergarten stay does not do the child well now, then it must be three months after that. And that's the very sensitive phase. We also know that the children who get used to are the children who have given up. You can see that from all the investigations. So even if a child is not mature, it must first be in kindergarten for three months, then it may be away again if the kindergarten teacher has found that there is no developmental delay. So this is an incredibly strange and, above all, harmful regulation for children. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I just have to stress it again: Apart from the fact that we always think obligations that are involved in the family are bad – voluntaryness is definitely better – I have to say who has negotiated this opt-out, nothing of children understands!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e40779	Next speaker: Mr Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e40800	Mrs. Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Where are we to start after these remarks by Mrs Rosary, who goes so far away from the point of view of a measure? Mrs Rosenkranz, it is not as crucial as we are promoting children in the early childhood sector. I am with you when a parent house is there, which has the possibility that if a parent can even care for and train the child himself, it should be so. But You know very well that the majority of parents do not have this possibility. They also know very well about the deficits that may be possible in the area of development among children. You have a lot of kids, you know that very well. There are different stages of development, and if a child does not receive the corresponding promotion, then there is a deficit when it actually enters school. That's it. A backpack loaded with heavy stones would have these children, who do not receive the promotion, who do not have the opportunity to discover where their talents are, their talents, because that is exactly what happens in the time of brain maturation, that one finds this – who do not have the opportunity to playfully contribute to their weaknesses, their misdevelopments, which later need long therapeutic measures to compensate for them. It is very crucial and important that we use the lever on the subject of young children, when it comes to early education, and all those who look at it more intensively and not only through their own glasses, which may also be blinded, agree with it. There's hardly anyone who doesn't. This is one of the important measures, and it is so important for me, too, that it is not only about money – it is also about money, but not just about money – but that it is finally about recognizing what we can do so that our children have the best possible, the best chances to develop themselves individually, learn, to develop and to make the most of their talents and talents. These are decisive steps that are now being taken. It's not yet the final target, that's right, but it's for a coalition – I'm saying that quite openly now, because I've been dealing with it for a few years – a great progress that's now being made. It is not a reform paper of a SPÖ government alone, nor a red-green government or a red/green with NEOS, which are a lot of things in education policy, but these are decisive steps that are being taken here. That is why I am also sorry that you, Mr Strolz, have only argued negatively today, only negatively, and do not see what the important things are. [[Abg. Stroll: But that's also distressing!]] You know exactly how important school autonomy is. You know exactly how important it is – we discussed this only yesterday with the President of the Court of Auditors – that, when paying, all teachers will finally be treated in a uniform manner, that the Ministry, who will also have to pay for it, who will decide in the budget, knows where the individual teachers we have to pay. We have not yet known this because it has not been said by the countries. Now all of this is going to be done through the Bundesrechenzentrum, that is, it can no longer happen. The last point – because the red light is already illuminating – and I have to say that quite simply, Mr Rosenkranz, because the colleague Themessl is behind you, and he knows what I mean: If the country is talking quite differently than here, if you don't talk here or perhaps you can't talk or just say the opposite, what do we have about federalism? What if, in a country where all parties – including the Freedom Party, even stronger than many others – do not demand this, is it possible to create such model regions to test models? [[I should like to congratulate the SPÖ and MEPs of Greens and NEOS.]] The public, all the parties, all those who have dealt with them scientifically, including the parents, want to make such an attempt. 4 per cent of the population of Austria, a small federal country, where there is no political disputation, where not one looks at the other and not one at the other the toothache, no where everyone agrees – i.e., a modern federalism should allow one to test that in this region too. That would be a highest commandment of the hour!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e40856	Next word: Mrs Mag. Aslan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e40878	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We know that there is a great difference between the realities of life and work between women and men. For this reason, the budget must be analysed on its impact on men and women and budgeted in accordance with the objectives of equality. Gender budgeting has been anchored in the Austrian federal constitution since 2009, but unfortunately only the anchorage is a success, the implementation is still ongoing. There are still no effective data surveys, why the implementation does not work completely and why it is growing. Of course, I can understand when Mrs Bundesminister says that she has only €10 million at her disposal. With the money, she really can't go much further in the women's policy field, but I hope that this budget will naturally increase a bit. I think it is our duty, together with all the ministries, to exert a bit of pressure so that we do not have the same debate every year. There is no doubt about it. budgeting is not only relevant to the Ministry of Women, but also to the Ministry of Social Affairs, also to the Ministry of Economic Affairs, because I think that gender budgeting can simply be the key to a non-violent, non-discriminatory public labour market. Of course, within the framework of the gender equality objectives, the government must set itself budgetaryly relevant, verifiable objectives and also set appropriate measures to achieve the objective. – That's not quite obvious, I have to say. Women are not only more affected by poverty and do huge unpaid work, but are also much more dependent on social infrastructures. This means expanding and improving quality in the area of childcare, in the field of care or in the field of education must simply be guaranteed if women are to be relieved. For example, if there are budget cuts in the area of care or in the area of childcare or education, this will have an indirect impact on women. And we all have to exert a bit more pressure because gender budgeting can only work if all ministries so to speak provide a bite from their budget pot for women's policy matters. We also see this in the prevention of violence, how important it is. While there have been no increases in the area of violence prevention and intervention agencies, there has also been no adjustment to inflation, this has to be said, and it is still the case that the women's advisory centres and also the violence prevention agencies have no money for child prevention. It is precisely there that you have to take responsibility, especially in this case you really have to take responsibility for all ministries, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Health and also the Ministry of Economic Affairs, so that gender budgeting can work in the truest sense. Gender budgeting can only work if it is really done at all levels if all ministries can participate together. If you don't want to, then you have to look at the increase in the budget for the women's ministry so that we don't have to beg women every year and ask why there is a snail pace in the women's policy area, why the women's and girls' advisory services still have no money, why violence prevention is still a big topic for us – unlike the Scandinavian countries. Living gender budgeting is a sign of living democracy, and this living democracy should take place now and not only in three or five years. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e40932	Next speaker: Mr El Habbassi. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e40953	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I can start today with a quote from Nobel laureate James Heckman, who says: “Investing in the small ones brings the greatest economic benefit.” This is one of these ideas that led this federal government and also the plans for the new educational reform, that we invest with the smallest ones in order to be less able to repair later. That is why it is not possible that one of the most important budget projects in the field of education, €160 million, will be available for the further expansion of school full-day care – for the extension of day care to compulsory schools, to federal schools, where The aim is not only to increase and strengthen the quality of care, but also the range of services for the duration of the care. Then there is a second major point, which concerns the modularisation of the upper level and the expansion of lifelong learning, in particular with regard to the examination of careers and the re-examination of qualifications. Mr. Gerhard Schmid said before: Although we are second in the field of youth unemployment in European comparison, although we have a super-enhanced dual education system, we still have so-called NEETs – kids, who are simply not in school, not in education and not in the profession, 75 000 in number. In addition: Whenever we deal with the realities at the moment, we see that many young people now come to Austria, seek protection, need help and need a future – and for this future, education needs to be. For all these cases there is an answer, and that means: In the past, invest instead of later repair, invest in kindergarten instead of later repair. This is also at the heart of these educational reform plans. When it comes to ensuring German before entering school, when it comes to focusing on kindergarten, when it comes to implementing the best language and talent support for our children, by introducing an educational compass, by creating the opportunities for children to be promoted according to their individual needs and talents, I believe it is the right way that this government has taken with this reform package presented. Now I believe that we are implementing these things, that we are putting aside all these ideological, political little money stories and focusing on achieving the best for the children in Austria. I therefore ask you that we make constructive progress towards this path that has been taken by the Federal Government in the last few days and weeks. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e41005	Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, Federal Minister, spoke next time. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e41026	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I thought I was talking about this in half of the list of speakers, in order to draw a consensus from my point of view, namely, on the one hand, my summature as a Minister of Women, concerning the budget, and on the other hand as Minister of Education, on the budget, also concerning the budget, but, on the other hand, perhaps referring to some of the content of the new decisions of the Federal Government regarding education reform. Today, in the early days, in a press conference – together with many who have contributed significantly to this, I was allowed to end a two-year campaign from the women's homes, from the women's advisory bodies, as well as from our legal youth representative in Austria, the Federal Youth Office, which we carried out under the title "Living Free of Violence". In these two years, hundreds of events have been held and nearly 200 partners – including many companies – have been won, which have set themselves the goal of enabling women to live non-violent, existential lives and to promote that women, when they are in need, can not only contact the women's helpline, but also partners in the companies, at the works councils, so there are everywhere that will also give them this assistance. In workshops with the Federal Youth Office alone, 3,000 pupils attended, and 74 multipliers were trained. The workshops focused on conflict resolution models, violence prevention – especially for girls, but of course also for boys. All of this was presented today, on the first day of the “16 days against violence ” now taking place. For these reasons it is good, and that has already been said by some speakers that the women's budget could remain the same over the past few years with just over €10 million. More than 50 percent of these €10 million will be spent on more than 100 female institutions – and at this point: Thank you very much to all, to hundreds of employees in these women's institutions, who offer, in their daily work for women, anonymous free consultations of a legal nature, a social worker's nature, a labour market policy, but also advise and help women with violent experiences. 41 percent of the 10-million-€ budget goes on to provide legal services for violent centres, on the occasion of our so-promised anti-violence law in Austria, which was adopted in 1997 and was improved in many novels. The Council of Europe Convention, ratification and the legal attachment of Austria to this content are also an important contribution. So that's the 41 percent – and that's what has already been said, the Minister of the Interior and the Minister for Women share the costs involved – and a number of millions of euros. This leaves 3 percent left for more. We will soon issue a pension brochure, as set out in the government programme, so that we can inform women well, what they expect if they have collected a certain number of months or if they have worked involuntarily or voluntarily over a longer period of time – is also part-time for women – and how to advise in this regard well. Also mentioned was the salary calculator, where we will try to adapt it with new numbers in such a way that women in relation to the various industries in which they work can also be well informed about what they should actually earn and whether what they are offered is an adequate wage and an adequate salary. So: In my opinion, in the women's budget, that was also said by previous speakers, nothing more negative is to be said, except that we try to maintain the existing level, and: Although the number of victims increases, although more women use consultation, the great work of many hundreds of employees in this area makes it possible to maintain the level well. Now to the educational budget. It is one of the largest single budgets in the entire Federal Government with just over €8 billion. If I can only show the pie chart, you probably know them all, briefly: [[keeping a graphic in height]] Blue and red are the salaries of the state teachers, who together account for more than 90 percent. In addition, we invest more than €600 million a year in school construction in Austria and in the preservation of our school sites, and I only speak of the Federal Schools, because the schools in compulsory schools are, as you all know, in the responsibility of the municipalities, where great things are also done, because in my opinion, our compulsory schools can also be seen, they are in a very good condition. Then there are even smaller posts, which also make up a few hundred million euros each. In doing so, adult education plays a major role and other areas that are fixed costs, the financing of all-day schools already mentioned at 160 million per year, and so on and so on, until this sum of 8 billion results. Ladies and gentlemen, for many, many years there has been a structural under-doing because, of course, we are bound for years by the financial compensation, which is the result of the disbursements of education, because here in Parliament, too, many reforms – and I think we should be pleased in this House – have been decided, of course, which have caused additional costs, but have not always caused this to happen. There was always additional money for reforms, but it is also true that teachers and teachers in particular did not succeed in doing so and other areas. As in every year – since my predecessors this is already the subject – I can give the Council of Ministers my approval to the budget calmly, too, because this time we have received more than € 106 million in additional budget in the field of education for 2016. Of course, I am going to make my contribution again, together with the countries and the Federal Government, that the budget can also be well represented, and it will remain a structural deficit which we will be able to offset again – I can guarantee it now – because of course it is not a matter of continuing this structural under-doing in the field of education. If it were all over me, it would be better not to ask a question, but nevertheless I trust in the good discussions with the financial system that will be done in 2016, which needs to be done. However, ladies and gentlemen, this should not prevent us from being quite proud of what the OECD has confirmed yesterday and I was able to experience today in the afternoon: I was in the Industrial Union at a entrepreneurship summit, in which more than a thousand people from all over Europe and beyond took part. In network projects with other countries, we want to bring our public schools, new secondary schools and high and medium-sized schools to a entrepreneurship hold, namely to develop an entrepreneurial spirit that requires self-confidence and courage, as well as the ability to implement an idea that you have, and in this we are – rather – European masters, we have today received a European certificate. In particular, today I have had talks with a Lower Austrian school that is completely different – just as we have written them down in the autonomy package and as it is reality in some or even many schools in Austria thanks to the high willingness of teachers and school boards – and that says: We're cost-neutral. Whether you believe it or not, ladies and gentlemen: They go completely new ways and create it with a good teambuilding process and with a good change management at these schools, that they can show students completely new ways and still act cost-neutral. That is why I have great hope in relation to these six points which the Federal Government has made to you in the educational reform package. I am well aware of the high level of responsibility of the House, including the constitutional provisions of this educational system, so that we can get a slimmer government structure, that we can better understand where our teachers sit and what they are doing – they are doing great – that we can see if the language support is where they belong, if the amount is where they belong. This has now been in agreement and in agreement with the nine federal states for the first time since I did not know how many years have succeeded in taking a common path. The government structure is one, but even more important, it is – and that has already been said today – to start with the youngest, with the little ones, and to see how you can get into the system well and get into it. How can you shape the transitions in such a way that they do not mean stress to children or parents? This can now be tested in model regions within ten years by simply taking place later on in other areas such as vocational training, general education and training, and by making it easier for young people to enter at the age of six. In addition, we are innovative, we bring broadband to school and look in coordination with the countries – for that belongs to the municipalities – that there is also the supply of Wi-Fi and other electronic possibilities in schools. I therefore believe that you should not prejudice this whole package until we have discussed it with you in detail here. It is in the sense of the children – and the children were mentioned by all speakers – what the school of the future, the school of the beginning and the education system as a whole can do, because it already starts in the preschool area. [[Abg. Moser: They have nothing at all of educational direction! The education departments are a dead end!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e41102	Mrs Gamon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e41123	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! I would like to focus briefly on the subject of education budgets, as it is important for me to address once again how this is budgeted: I think it is very unscrupulous that simply a budget is presented in which more than half a billion € is not inside! This cannot be a budget that would be a smooth spot in the first audit “Accounting & Management Control” at the WU. That's not how you get through! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] In short, perhaps an explanation of where the hole comes from, namely, the teachers of the state. However, what I also felt was very interesting in this regard in the Committee is that the question could not be answered, why the national teachers are now too low for 2016 with around €160 million. Finally, this has already been missed in the last budget, there is simply no explanation for me why they are now even lower. This is simply not verifiable and unexplainable. The only argument is that, unlike Mr Schmid, the budget is not a number of policies, but a number of relationships management in the Council of Ministers, because one negotiates things and then one does not get to the point. I would also like to address the issue of autonomy briefly, because finally it is a question of where it might be possible to save costs in the administration. In our opinion, autonomy at the school location would already lead to this, but the question of why autonomy is indicated in percentages. You can be up to 33 percent autonomous? That's like 33 percent pregnant: totally illogical! That is why we have a proposal on how to do this, and I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e41201	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Gamon is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e41260	Next speaker: Mrs Mag.a Wurm.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e41281	Mr President. I am always glad when I hear you and give you so wonderfully the different names of our Members. – Thank you very much! [[Cheerfulness of the Federal Minister Heinisch-Hosek.]] [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Women's budget: For a few years the same sum is a good performance in times of saving. What can the women's minister do with €10 million? Above all, it can provide incentive funding, it can raise awareness, and it does so in many areas, which it does. We have heard from colleague Aslan today: Since 2009, Gender Budgeting has been a state target. What does Gender Budgeting mean? – How are funds spent for women, for men, and there is justice? Is there any equality? Equality – that’s the goal! For example, if I look at the question of the protection of violence: Today we have the International Day against Violence against Women. In the case of violence, 50 percent of the costs for the Vienna intervention agency against violence in the family are borne by the Ministry of Women; 50 percent are spent by the Ministry of the Interior for this important institution; on the other hand, the Federal Ministry of Justice is issuing a significant sum for process support measures. That's living gender budgeting, that's living equality in the budget. In her speech, colleague Martina Schenkhat mentioned the women 50 plus. Especially for labour market policy measures for women aged 50 plus, the Ministry of Social Affairs has taken a lot of money into its hands. If we want women to go to work longer, they must also have the appropriate jobs. Another example is the newly negotiated labour market package. How does that look? – There is the fact that we have repeatedly stressed that women working part-time should also have the opportunity to return to full-time employment in their own businesses! This is an important measure for women. [[Abg. Loacker: This makes every company voluntary and without law!]] There, too, measures have been taken by the Ministry of Social Affairs in cooperation with the Ministry of Women, and that will be the law. It's useful for women. Or the questions of child care, incitement funding, work and family compatibility for women and men and, and, and. I would like to see a lot of examples coming up here. Ladies and gentlemen, in this context I would like to quote Bertolt Brecht: “The strong man is stronger without violence.”
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e41339	Mrs Schimanek's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e41360	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would like to start with a quote: ‘The budget is the government’s policy cast in figures. And then we're going to go on: ‘88 cents per woman and year, that is the ‘shambled result of this budget, a small sum’’. – This statement does not come from me, this statement comes from the former SPÖ lady spokesperson Heinisch-Hosek. And then we're going to go on: ‘... Heinisch-Hosek, who, in conclusion, stressed the responsibility of the Minister for Women, who had to deal with the question, said: “It must be said: ‘Why she did not work for another’ – that is to say, ‘budget’ – I can only pass this question on to you, Mrs Minister. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's really pure cynicism if you tell us here that the women's budget is enough and you're glad you can keep it. - We've been thinking about it. In 2005 the women in Austria received € 1.06 from the budget inflation-adjusted, € 1.04 in 2004, de facto less than you did at the time. – But there is no cry, there is no cry from the SPÖ, and I am very surprised. Once again, Madam Minister, I think you are: I don't think the € 10.15 million is too little. We have many necessary projects to carry out in Austria. We've heard about it today: Violence prevention, victim protection, women's projects, women's advisory bodies to be supported, and of course also the women's advisory bodies responsible for the protection of violence. We have heard from the Committee that you still have about €300 000 available for your own projects, so I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mrs Minister, we have already heard, today the action "16 days against violence against women" begins – several Members have already mentioned it. Violence against women is still a fear and taboo issue. It is important to encourage women and to make women break their silence. It touched me very much to read last Sunday the interview of Sabatina James in the “Kronen Zeitung”. I have to congratulate the lady: That was a plea for freedom! We would need more such courageous women. That is why I am convinced that we need such a study. I think it is also with Alice Schwarzer, who is not suspected of being a member of the Freedom Party, but who reported her dissatisfaction with Islamic agitation months ago. You now have the opportunity to confess colour in Austria with the application.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e41442	Next, Mr. Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e41464	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Education opportunities must be the same for all. Unfortunately, the OECD does not confirm this and gives us a bad witness regarding educational inheritance. It should be noted, however, that we are the fourth best country in terms of training or employment compared to the other OECD countries. With us, it is only 12 percent that are not, and with that we are in the leading field. I think this is due to our good dual education system, and that is certainly a good sign for us. In principle, I think that the new education reform is particularly important and particularly important to combat inheritance in the field of education, and it is a very important step. I would like to try to break down the educational reform in our rural area. Especially in the regions with the small schools, we have to fight especially with the departure into the agglomerations – education migration – so the schools must be all the more attractive. And how does a school reach that it is attractive? – Through a common level of education. Especially here, with the educational reform, we take a step in elementary education with the second compulsory kindergarten year and a better transition into the folk school so that the children in the first class of folk school are talented and have the same level of education. The second point, which can make a school attractive, is the equipment of the school. In the future, of course, consideration should also be given to the financial compensation, but I also welcome broadband development, which will be particularly important for the attractiveness and equipment of the school. I also see great potential for the attractiveness of a school in the flexibility and qualification of our teaching staff. I believe that we have great potential here, so we need to look at our educators very positively. Finally, I think that with the new autonomous package of education reform, we will also create a certain competition between schools, which will certainly be invigorating. Of course, the most important are the talents and gifts of our children, and with the focus we can especially promote the performance-orientedness or the individual promotion of our children. In this sense, I would like to see the education reform happen well with the children and not miss their effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e41515	A small supplement to the speech of Mrs Member of Parliament Schimanek: The motion for a resolution it has put forward is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e41625	Next speaker: Mrs Maurer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e41647	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Spectators! I'd like to get in straight away: Mrs. Minister, I'm already a little surprised! They come here and admit that what we Greens have been saying for a long time now is that what my colleagues Harald Walser and Bruno Rossmann have been saying about this structural gap for a long time, that this will be the case next year and there will be no solution. I think that might be a bit of a threat. Firstly, the budget is still Parliament's decision, and secondly, it is an expression, an admission of totally renunciative policy when one comes here and says: There will be no solution and we will not try to solve it at all. I find that quite unprofessional. You can't do a budget like that! There's something you need to change about that! This is absolutely not understandable for me, however, I must say that I already see this re-signative policy in other areas. Let us take a look at the presentation of the educational reform: We expected that it would not be the big throw and the introduction of the common school – that has already turned out in advance – but I have to say honestly when it was actually presented then, I thought I did not understand anything correctly or I was somehow on the wrong steamer, because I could not imagine that you really mean something absurd like this 15 percent rule. But, look, you're serious! That is completely incomprehensible to me! This has nothing to do with a common school and, of course, can never work in this form. Either there are large regions, whole federal states, where all schools are relocated and the common school is introduced, or there is no such thing. This is from my point of view an expression of complete resignation, and – Harald Walser has said it more often – we will certainly not support it from the Greens. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] On the subject of resignative policy, I would like to say something very basic about the budget. Mrs. Minister, you talked about gender budgeting earlier. With the Federal Budgetary Reform, we have a new definition of how to shape the budget, namely with an impact control. I would like to express my express thanks at this point at the BKA's control office, which, in my view, is doing very good work. However, the political implementation of these objectives, which are formulated in the budget, remains to be desired. There, too, we have the situation that you do not set targets that you want to achieve, but you set targets that have already been achieved either anyway, or you calculate that something does not go out, so the goal will not be set at all, or you will continue to write a natural development. This has nothing to do with political goals, with an ambitious education policy, which actually wants to achieve something, at all. This is obviously going through. One has obviously given up a lot in the field of education. I would like to address another point which was the subject of the Committee. We have the teacher education Newly, and it is so that through the cooperation between universities and the educational universities, there will be a clear additional burden on the institutions, since the teachers have to switch from one institution to the other and so on. But this is not at all shown in this budget. In the education of teachers, only the increases in references are included, but there is nothing in the budget for the extra effort that the education of teachers will bring with it. Both responsible departments then shift responsibility to the other. They tell us that this is not contained, but that is what universities have to pay from the university's structural funds. All of this is not a solid budgeting and not a solid policy and, above all, an ambitious policy. You're right, we'll see what's going to happen in the further discussion of education reform, but one thing is clear: The debate must start urgently and urgently, otherwise it will be nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e41711	Next speaker: Mrs Holtinger-Vogtenhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e41732	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! As mentioned above, the 2016 educational budget is one of the largest single budgets of €8 billion and is above the 2015 estimate. I particularly welcome the quantitative and qualitative extension of the full-day care offer to compulsory and federal schools. 160 million € more for the promotion of our children and the relief of the parents. 160 million €, which will allow about 200,000 places and lead to a care density of around 30 percent. It's a good start for me. Much of the budget is also devoted to the development of the New Secondary School, to the modularisation of the upper level and the establishment of the Adult Education Initiative – an important measure to re-establish education and basic education. Nevertheless, and despite all this, it must be said that only by a hard struggle of the Minister of Education could it be achieved that a supplementary budget was created, which compensates for a €350 million gap and under-do away in the education budget. Despite all the increase, however, as Mr Walser has already mentioned, this gap will be re-established in 2016, and it will also be larger. That is quite logical if you think only of salary increases or biennial jumps. The restructuring of education reform, currently presented, includes important tools to counter this, but if we are honest, we will never solve this problem with these measures and we will never be able to fill this gap. What are the important points I consider to be particularly worth mentioning? – In the countries, the organisation of the National School Councils will finally be re-adapted, i.e. the abolition of senior presidents, vice-presidents and colleagues, which the Court of Auditors rightly criticised several times. It is equally gratifying that instead of nine different, intransparent Sys- In the future, the Bundesrechenzentrum will finally take over the calculation of all teachers. But one of the biggest successes I see in the expansion of school autonomy, in the expansion of model regions. – Unfortunately, it is only model regions, but in my opinion we are on the right track, but of course we also wish ourselves more, Mrs Maurer. What I wanted to mention is – Mrs Rosenkranz has mentioned it – that education in social democracy is already beginning with the smallest. That's what you're saying. In addition to the improvement in the early schooling phase, the expansion of elementary education is very central for us, and in particular in the context of the educational reform, there is still a lot to be done in this area. We will continue to work to ensure that this gap is closed, because savings or money that are not spent on children will cost us again in the future. We will continue to work to ensure that this gap is closed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e41788	Next word: Mr Mag. Hauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e41809	Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The chapter on women and education will be discussed under one. We liberals always act there: I have resigned a minute of my speaking time for the women. Do it! We are concerned that we do not talk about living women's policies, we do them, we act. And that is the decisive. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Mrs. Minister, now to the model regions: Let us now look at the practice of how this educational reform is to work! The Tyrolean ÖVP wants to explain East Tyrol – a district – as a model region, and that with the consequence that there will no longer be any gymnasium in the future. That would be the consequence. You informed us in the committee that every child should also have the opportunity to attend a gymnasium in the future. This would then mean for East Tyrol, if the whole district is defined as a model region, that the only gymnasium for the 10- to 14-year-olds will have to be a New Middle School, and all those who want to attend the gymnasium will have to avoid at least to Spittal. That's inconvenient! I think you really have to rework. It simply can't be that this important educational institution for East Tyrol's children and students is not available, especially since the costs per student in Gymnasia are the cheapest – 4 600 €, in relation to the New Middle School with 7 200 € – and the results that are excellent in the educational output of the gymnasias. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] I would be interested to see who will make the decision in the future. Are you meeting, Madam Minister, the decision to set up the model region? Makes this decision...
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e41857	Unfortunately, your club's overall speaking time is exhausted. I have to ask you to come to the end slowly.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e41873	Thank you, Mr President. – These questions can already be answered who will make the decisions in the future, whether a region will become a model region and start a school attempt or not. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fekter.]] Mrs Minister, please answer this question to me, because we in the district are really excited that we will no longer have this important educational policy institution in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e41911	Next speaker: Mrs Gessl-Ranftl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e41932	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! I would like to address a subject that has not yet been addressed by my previous speakers today, that is the subject of teaching with Matura. One of our core educational tasks is to enable young people to get better career and job opportunities through education. Both dual training and teaching with Matura are a success model, and Austria enjoys an excellent reputation across Europe. The teaching with Matura opens up new perspectives for young people. For me, it is essential that € 16.4 million has been estimated in the budget: € 16.4 million, which are certainly very well invested, € 16.4 million, from which many young people will continue to benefit. At present, 11 400 young people are in this system, and 3 520 apprentices have passed the mature exam since 2008/2009. We can see that the bill is up because the participation figures are rising. More and more companies encourage their apprentices to make the Matura. At this point, a warm thanks to all the companies that support this model, and also to the apprentices both in preparation and in time-sharing! As a teacher, I am deeply convinced of this model. Why? – As mentioned earlier, it opens up new perspectives to young people, because it is gaining more and more attractiveness, because companies and the economy benefit from it by winning powerful and talented young people, and because companies can subsequently commit motivated professionals to their business. With this model, a further step has been taken towards a modern education system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e41976	The next item is Mrs Gusenbauer-Jäger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e41997	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Education has a very high priority for us Social Democrats, also as a method for social emancipation. We think that education is the foundation to be able to develop further in order to free ourselves from constraints and restrictions. At present, this high priority is expressed by the remarkable budget of €8 billion. Thank you to our Federal Minister for this budget success! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] These funds are used well and meaningfully. The most important projects are clearly the expansion of school day care, for which 160 million € are available. In addition, the transformation of primary schools into new secondary schools is a very forward-looking project. Further educational priorities are the modularisation of the upper level, the modification of the professional maturity test, the re-enactment of qualifications and so on. There's still a lot to list. Not to be forgotten is also the education of teachers. Funds will also be invested in this training. A well-founded education is of utmost importance to our educators. Our children have the right to be taught by qualified and highly trained educators. The results of the educational reform can also be seen, Mr Rosenkranz, even if you do not want to see it that way. The kindergartens are being upgraded as educational establishments, the linguistic support is strengthened, and the autonomy package, which has been mentioned many times today, enables them to make decisions quickly on the ground. Thankfully, Mrs Jank has already mentioned this. The development of model regions has already been discussed today, as has the establishment of educational directorates. Here too, there would be a lot to list. In summary, it can be said that the budgetary and educational development is very positive and that it can be expected that all pupils, all children and all educators will benefit greatly from it. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e42051	Mr Knes has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e42073	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Appreciate High House! The Equal Pay Day is known to have taken place in October of this year. Although there has clearly been a slight improvement, we are still far from equal treatment, i.e. equal pay for women and men in the farms. This shows us that we have improved by a day or a whole by 0.1 percent, but this also shows us that all of us here in the house should work vehemently to improve this even further. As the World Works Council of a paper group with more than 30 000 employees worldwide, I have managed to start a pilot project for 2016 in agreement with the Minister. This means that at Mondi we are dealing with this issue on the new intranet page and are exactly what constitutes the income shears between ladies and gentlemen in the businesses. This would only be an example of how to deal with this issue in the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We will fight side by side with the Ministry, but also with the trade union PRO-GE, and in our company we show that we not only want to live gender policy, but can also very well show how it goes on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e42112	Mrs Kucharovich's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e42133	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! I would like to use today's budget speech to deal with violence against women on the International Day, and in particular to address the issue of women on the run. Austria has a very good network of anti-violence facilities thanks to our women's minister and women's champions – a network that many, many women, in very terrible situations, are immediately at the side, whether directly on site in the facilities or through the women's helpline, whose telephone number I would like to mention now: 0800 222 555. In the present situation, we also need to pay special attention to refugee women, and the Minister of Foreign Affairs is doing so. There has already been a conversation with experts and NGOs. Around a quarter of all asylum seekers in Austria are female. These women who come from war areas have a very long and very difficult path behind them and are often very, very traumatized by the experience in their home country, by the terrible experiences on the run – rapes, drag-offs and much more, which is simply unimaginable for most of us. We must provide protection for all and provide all care so that all women can have the opportunity to truly overcome these terrible experiences. This clearly means providing psychological care, but also clear compliance with the Istanbul Convention in all accommodations. The Minister of the Interior is also very much in demand. Ladies and gentlemen! We all have the duty to help women escape violence.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e42173	Mr Preiner is speaking on behalf of the last one for the present day. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e42194	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. The most valuable asset of man is undoubtedly his health, followed by the desire for a suitable job. The basis for the latter provides education. This idea was also taken into account in the 2016 budget. The educational budget is €8.1 billion. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) As a teacher, I would like to address some aspects of education in the 2016 budget, which are very important to me personally. On the one hand, the further expansion of the school's full-day care – for which there are €160 million per year by 2018 – is available, and on the other hand the comprehensive implementation of the New Middle School, which will create approximately 4,000 additional jobs in the educational field. It is also particularly important to me to repeat the compulsory school degree, for which € 25 million are available for 2016, and finally the project Teaching with Matura – it has already been addressed today – with an budget of €16.5 million. Ladies and gentlemen, this content is sustainable and direction-setting for education policy 2016. I would also like to invite all colleagues across party borders to participate constructively in the Education Reform Discussion 2015 because it is forward-looking. Better education means more opportunities for our youth, including at work. Therefore again the appeal to you: Get involved in the debate on Education Reform 2015 constructively and sustainably! I thank you for your attention and wish you and all television viewers at home a nice evening.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e42248	That's what I wanted to do. On the sub-division of education and women I no longer have any further words available. Thus, this subject area is completed. I am now interrupting the meeting until Thursday, 26. November 2015, 9 a.m. Then the negotiations with the deliberations of subheading 31 will be: Science and research continued. I wish you a nice evening and a good night! The sitting was suspended until tomorrow. [[The meeting was held on Wednesday, 25 May. November 2015, at 7.41 p.m. and on Thursday, 26 November 2015 In November 2015, continued at 9.05 a.m.]] [[09:05:34]] Continued the meeting: Thursday, 26. November 2015, 9.05 a.m.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e42304	Ladies and gentlemen! I wish you a nice good morning and take the interrupted 104. The meeting of the National Council on Budgetary Consultations was resumed. For today's session, the following Members have been reported as preventing: May. Greiner, Music, Ing. Hackl, singer, Mag. Brunner and Mag. Musiol. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e42334	For today's meeting day, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government has issued the following communication: The Federal Minister for Europe, Integration and External Affairs Sebastian Kurz is represented by the Federal Minister for Justice Dr. Wolfgang Brandstetter. We continue with the budget consultation. I announce that today's meeting of ORF 2 to 1 p.m. and ORF III will be broadcast live in full length. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e42376	For today’s session day, a day-block speaking time of 8 ‘Vienna hours’ has been decided, so that the following speaking times may arise: SPÖ and ÖVP each 108, FPÖ 100, Green 84 as well as NEOS and Team Stronach each 44 Mi-nuts. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall be the speaking time of those Members who do not belong to a club within 22 minutes of today's sitting. In addition, the speaking time of Members who do not belong to a club was reduced to 5 minutes per debate. The division of today's discussions is known to you all. [[09:07:20]] UG 31: Science and research
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e42406	We start with the deliberations on sub-division 31: Science and research. I welcome Mr. Federal Minister Vice-Chancellor, Dr. Mitterlehner. First of all, Mr Karlsböck is speaking on this chapter. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e42433	Good morning, Madam President. Good morning, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen! Science – on the last day! Minister, the prosperity of a society and the degree of civilization are always responsible for the state of development and the importance of research, universities and technology, the value of these three disciplines in society. We are happy to compare ourselves with Sweden. In Sweden – this is a negative example – the importance of science and research has been reduced in relation to gross social product. A UN study predicts Sweden to be a developing country in 2030. And I fear that in Austria, if we continue to do so, the development could also go there. In Sunday's speeches, it is repeatedly stressed how important research is, how important the future, how important the universities are for our young generation. You in the Federal Government have set an ambitious goal, you have stated that you want to spend 2% of GDP on research. This means a 2-percent target for 2020, and for the current 300 billion of the budget, that would be 6 billion. But we only have about 4.2 billion available. This self-esteemed ambitious goal is therefore missing around a third. In other figures: From 2011 to 2016, we had an average budget growth of 3.3 percent in the field of science. In the scientific and research budget 2016 to 2019, only more than 0.7 percent of GDP is planned, no, not planned, but expected at increase rates. We are therefore not going to achieve this goal at Weitem. If two billions are missing in an area that now includes public universities, private universities, but also technical colleges, we must ask ourselves where the impact will be. If we look at higher education, we have to say that is the most positive area, a real success story in recent years. The technical universities have developed from a complementary measure to the full-scale universities to a real competition for universities. However, we do not have to say that the 50 000 places we are seeking have yet to be reached, and even this number of places of study is too small for us, and there is still something to be done. As far as private universities are concerned, I would just like to say so much that it is necessary to distinguish between right private universities and those who also receive national subsidies – federal subsidies they cannot get, but national subsidies can get them – but they still run under private universities. But the right private universities are now a success story in this country, and I hope they can continue to work in a prosperous environment without too many cross-scores. They are already developing a clear excellence in the first degrees that are currently being made in Austria. The state universities are the stepchild and problem child in the history of the development of Austrian research and teaching. In view of the fact that we have a budget of €2.7 billion, a total of €3.2 billion in this area, we can say that there is nevertheless money available. However, we know where the weaknesses lie. Today we have mainly at the universities – as an example we take the University of Vienna! – in the field of medium-sized construction, which is more or less the system holder or represents the regular staff, blatant problems, because the colleagues working in this segment see a lack of development in the future. You only have the opportunity to stay for a maximum of three to six years due to the lack of career path. This is damaging to continuity in research and teaching, and this is because the professors responsible are not create the necessary fixed points out of fear that the performance agreement, which will be renegotiated every three years, will not be sufficient next time. Mr Minister, we also have a potential for financial resources, which we simply and simply leave to ourselves and do not demand. I would like to say that in the case of something you may be able to do something for it, perhaps not, that is the clinical additional burden that is currently making a bee at €200 million. Perhaps the vice chancellor would have had to make more progress in the government negotiations. This is €200 million for something that the Ministry of Health or the Social Affairs would actually have to learn. The working time laws, as we know, must also be observed in the public field of hospitals and also in the clinics. There was a long sleep on the part of the Minister for Social Affairs. We have a very high drop-out ratio of about 50 percent, at least according to a study in the last five years. Each second reportedly ceases after this study. A drop-out quota of an average of 50 percent with a load of € 200 million is a manageable sum. But the biggest chunks seem to me to be the outside stands that the foreign students are making here, which is about €600 million. According to a study, we are the country with the third largest share of all the countries that have been examined here. This can be a joy, which gives us a certain internationality. However, if the money is missing for this, I wonder what sense these numbers make here. Mr Minister, you should be a little on your feet, and I would ask you to do so now, instead of saying that we have to comply with contracts. Yes, I also know that we have concluded contracts. In times like this, however, Britain shows us, especially in the area of the European Union, how to get money back. 600 million are in the pot, 600 million are picked up. I ask you, Minister, to do something for the future of our students! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e42506	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Däderle. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e42528	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! It is a happiness for science that now all the world realizes that their promotion is also economically useful. This makes appeals to finance them higher, mostly linked to this prosperity and economic argument, but I have nothing either. It should be recalled, however, that the care of the sciences brings a wealth of other benefits and strengths to the countries that are caring for them. Humanities, legal sciences, theology, cultural sciences, philosophy, ethics: All of these disciplines contribute significantly to the European values that are now widely conjured. They are the foundation of the Enlightenment, and they are also important and important to finance and an important task of the State. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Thank you. This task meets Austria to a sufficient extent. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Moser.]] Of course – I also know as a university member – it is always too little, it could be more and more, and so the appropriate complaints must be interpreted. However, it is clear that, in all key areas, we have been able to show increases for years, despite other sparing needs and savings, which are significantly higher than inflation rates. Get concrete the universities for this service agreement period 2016 to 2018 € 615 million more, in the budget of next year, which is currently under debate, by € 189 million more. The European University Association has confirmed to us in its last report that the budgets of universities from state sources have increased by 18 percent since 2008, which makes us very positive on the European average. The number of students has increased slightly, that is right, but now they are flattening – a general trend – and this will make the fresh money that comes to universities even more effective. We can say the same about the colleges. I started to force the expansion again in my time. That's going on. We now also have an increase in funding rates in the budget, which is important, but also the number of study places will be further expanded, and 200 new places for 2017/18 are currently in tender. The same applies to the research institutions belonging to the scientific community. The FWF first has a solid annual budgeting. We used to have to feed him from any other source. In the period 2016 to 2018, he experienced an increase of 12.5 percent compared to that of 2013 to 2015. There are also complaints that some programmes need to be reduced, simply because the number of applications and their quality increases faster than the financing possibilities can increase. In other words, we must not fail to do so in our efforts. The same applies to the Austrian Academy of Sciences. It receives a strong increase of 17 percent for the performance agreement from 2015 to 2017 compared to the last. So you can generally say: The funds are increasing, and the funds are also being used very targetedly. This also serves the higher education structure, which was introduced in my time and which is used for targeted programmes and projects and is therefore a beautiful and important means of controlling and focusing, for example for education NEW, which is of course a very important project, where everyone knows and everyone emphasizes the importance of well-trained teachers for the future of our education. Summary: Yes, it could be more, but it is a clear plus in all areas, contrary to the trend of general saving. And with this, I think, our scientific institutions can continue to work successfully.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e42591	Next speaker: Mrs Maurer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e42612	Good morning, Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Values Advisors! Mr Mitterlehner, I see it as the task of the opposition to do a performance and performance control of your work. And, of course, it is now time to start again where we are talking about the budget. From the very beginning, we Greens had the suspicion that science will be greatly lagging behind with the combination of two departments, namely the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of Science. You yourself said at that time that the symbolism is bad to do it that way. You also said at that time that you did not ask to take over this place, and then you also dedicated symbolism to the first “W” in the title of the Science Department – a fig leaf that should show that you are doing something. However, this is, yes, just a fig leaf, and unfortunately, it has remained. Another symbol of how insignificant science is in your department is the BMWFW homepage. If you want to call them and call them in the ministry, there's the page contact. There's a map of where the Ministry of Economic Affairs is, and then there's the mediation. If one calls there, one ends up in the economic administration sector, and if one says that one would like to talk to people from the Ministry of Science, one is told that one calls at the mediation rather than at the mediation of the Ministry of Science. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schönegger]] [[Abg. Wöginger: What does this have to do with the budget?]] However, the number of mediation of the Ministry's science management department is not even... [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Schönegger: No one will be “Plumbed”!]] – Let me speak out, ladies and gentlemen. The mediation for the Department of Science can not even be found on your homepage, Mr. Federal Minister. This is another symbol of the importance of science in your department. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. New builder: I'd like to get a hitch from the gallery!]] Performance and performance control... [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] – You ask: What about the budget? - That's still coming. [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Take it easy! It's coming. Federal Minister! I did a performance and performance check when the 100-day science ministers were reached. I did the same thing when you became Vice Chancellor. And I've been looking at it again today, and I have to say, Until today, after more than two years of becoming ministers, there is still no single interview in which you would present a scientific, research-political vision where you would explain what your perspective is for this legislative period. We are already at the end of the second year of your responsibility for science and research, Mr Minister, and there is still nothing of yours in this direction. There are some well-founded journalists who know very well that you also have science in your portfolio, which then occasionally ask about study fees and access restrictions, but otherwise there is nothing from you in this area. [[Abg. Neubauer:... Journalist!]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Now I want to talk to the budget. – Mr Minister, you have failed to secure the finances for universities. You originally demanded €1.6 billion, the already quoted € 615 million it has become. This corresponds to the balance of inflation and the changes in reference. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] But if you look more closely at this, you can see that it is much less, because in the next three years, the portfolio of universities that they have to take over is expanding strongly, because in other areas they are cut short and because things have to be paid out of the university budget, which have actually not lost anything there. That's the doctor's salary. The doctors' salaries – we know, because of the working time regulations there are increases in salary that need to be paid – come from the ministerial reserve. This is part of the university budget. Mr Minister, you said that the other universities will not suffer that the doctors will get more money. Now of course it is so, it is paid out of the reserve – money missing from the other universities. The overheads were deleted to the FWF. It is a very important part of the budget to cover overhead costs for basic research projects. This was previously paid out by the FWF to the universities, and now this part of the budget has to challenge the universities themselves. Doctorate colleges are abolished and the resulting funds are also financed through the university space structure funds. To my amazement, the Minister Heinisch-Hosek told me on my question in the Committee on Budgets, as is new with the education of teachers, that no means are provided for this in the UG 30, i.e. in the educational budget, because this is also handled through the university structure resources. So we face the paradoxical situation that, of course, there has never been as much money available to universities as now – it's the highest amount we've ever had – but at the same time you have to save much more than ever, because so many additional burden is imposed on you. So, Minister, this is an absolute failure. I'd like to go into a little more detail: We discussed the science budget in the Committee on Budgets, at the time of the double budget 2014/2015, and we did indeed when the Federal Budget Act was introduced, that impact control must happen. That means you set goals that you want to achieve by which you can measure. Two years ago, when we discussed the double budget, you granted me: Yes, we did not take it so seriously with the objectives of action! There are a few mistakes et cetera – because the objectives are simply totally unambitionable, partly not comprehensible, partly for the next five years, and so on. That was at the double budget 2014/2015. And now at the 2016 budget, we have the very same discussion again, and you told me again in the Budget Committee: Yes, we know that's a little suboptimal, we need to improve somehow! Mr Mitterlehner, I must tell you honestly: As a Member of Parliament, there is a bit of a bit of a joke. They would have had enough time to improve this in recent years and actually work on it. You can see from these goals that science is really shitty to you. [[He-Rufe, Deputies of SPÖ, ÖVP and NEOS.]] You're taking care of yourself at all...
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e42736	Mrs Maurer, I give you a call for an order.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e42771	I'll take it. [[Abg. Wöginger: First talk all the time about telephone lines and then...!]] For performance and performance control, which I mentioned at the outset: Mr Minister, it is absolutely “not enough”!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e42835	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e42857	Ladies and gentlemen! In contrast to my previous speaker, I believe that the importance of universities and science policy should not be measured by telephone connections, but by the budgetary facilities of universities. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ and the ÖVP]] [[Call:Yes exactly]] I think that the universities themselves see and evaluate this. The equipment, the steps to be taken, must also be seen under the existing framework conditions of a very difficult budgetary situation. In contrast to other areas which are also important to us, it must be noted that, in recent years, the field of science and higher education has been equipped with additional budget resources, which we consider to be a very important and correct step. Thus, in the budget we are discussing today, the universities also receive additional funds, scarce 190 for the coming year, for the coming performance period there is a plus of over 600 million €. This is an important step where many measures can and should be taken. I would like to stress one that we place very much on, which is very important to us, namely that additional professorships can also be created from the additional resources, in order to improve the conditions of support at universities and thus the situation for teachers and students. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] An important step is – and this has already been mentioned – the better equipment of the vocational colleges, which have become an important additional area in the tertiary sector, because of the strong and much more job-accompanied offers made in the vocational colleges, the training is very close to the profession, the people have good career opportunities and regional accessibility is also very good. This is why it is an important step that the funding rates in the technical universities are increased and that we can also create additional places for study. The third point – and here we have to put a wormhead drop from our point of view – is the area of study funding. We have been able to take small steps, together in this legislative period. Nevertheless, it must be noted that the approach could not really be extended, but that would be urgently necessary, as the last adaptation of the study funding took place in 2007. The Federal Minister has also indicated in the Committee on Budgets that he thinks that this has been a long time ago. I therefore hope that in the next few years we will be able to make common efforts and take the appropriate steps to improve the social situation of students.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e42902	The next item is Mrs Gamon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e42924	Madam President. Mr. Minister! There are already areas that are worse than science and research. If you take a rough look at it, you have to say that the budget has really remained stable, that there has been an increase, but it will be flattened in 2016. This means that we will not achieve this 2 percent target, i.e. 2 percent of GDP for tertiary education. It is clear that the task of getting there is still there, and you must work on it, Minister. And I am firmly convinced that you will work to achieve this. I think that you can also praise – I have to say that quite honestly, because we also said NEOS that we want to remain appreciative – that it, even if in many other areas – except for pensions, but we discussed that already yesterday – it is good that there is a commitment to not saving in science. It is an important area, which also helps other areas of society, helps the economic location, and you are also responsible for that, as we know. But I would like to take this opportunity to talk about the composition of the budget, for example in the field of research, because Austria is taking over average public resources in the field of research. Innovation Leaders in Europe have a much greater share of private funding. Austria is now only referred to as an innovation follower, and I believe that it is also part of it. We simply take too few measures to change that. The community package, which is now to come, will not change that. The problem of immediacy is still not solved, as many organisations are excluded. It would be good if you were here as a sign of courage and openness a little wider, and if you could really take money into your hands in order to put it into science and research. You have said in the Committee that you expect €120 million to come with this Community aid package for science and research. I think that is totally unrealistic. That's never gonna happen. We have third-party funds in Austria, but these third-party funds are again state funds that are paid out from another, but competitive, pot. I think it really needs a commitment to private funding in research. It doesn't have to regulate everything the state has to do because, as we know, many places don't work so well. More private, less state: This would certainly not be bad in the field of research. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] To the universities themselves: We can only welcome the increase in higher education structures, but then the money is missing from the FWF. This is a false signal when it comes to competitive means. Even if there is more private resources, on the other hand, one should not save on state resources. I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I think that this is very essential, especially in order to strengthen the commitment to science and research, and also to show that we want to go more in the direction of competitively allocated funds and not to be saved there. In conclusion: For higher education and the money that he lacks: More courage too private! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e43005	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e43060	The next Minister of State, Dr Mitterlehner, has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e43084	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, it could be more – this probably applies to any budgetary approach and to any group. Yes, it could also be much less if I look at the framework conditions that other ministers have, if I look at, among other things, government debt and if I also look at economic development. That is why, precisely in terms of these conditions, we are actually in a very good situation – I say in a relatively good situation – in terms of science, because we have an increase of 3.8 percent in budgetary approaches. This is an increase, especially as regards universities, and the area of the service agreement, which goes even beyond this factor, because we have pictures that go beyond the years 2016 to 2017 and 2018. We also have a clear autonomy of universities since 2002 – most of them know it, but not all, as the university has been designed – and the control factors where the state is involved are, on the one hand, the financing of all the activities, one looks away from third-party funds, and on the other hand, the framework conditions. I would say that the university framework conditions, especially in terms of career models, but we have already clearly improved the management system in the field of universities with the last novel of the university law. You've been there. In particular, this will have a positive effect on the quality of the university, the relationship between the caregivers and the caregivers. I should like to say a few words – Mrs Däderle has referred to it – as regards the individual university areas and research, how this is structured. It has already been mentioned that universities have a three-year agreement as regards the benefits and the benefit agreement. In the budget we have an increase of 6 percent in 2016, which is 189 million €. We have € 615 million of fresh money available for the entire performance period. The negotiations we are negotiating with the 22 universities, including the University of Krems, could already be completed with 21 universities. We have not yet been able to do this with the Medical University of Vienna for structural reasons. But in the final effect alone, the fact that we have already completed these negotiations with 21 universities proves that we have put in place a very solid supply line, which is also accepted on the other hand. Thus we achieve the assurance of the teaching and research operations of the universities, but of course also the assurance of Austrian health care as regards medical universities as a basic factor for the field. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have taken a fairly big step forward, and there too we increase the budget by 6 percent in 2016. There is a part of the expansion of the high school courses, but we have also been able for the first time for seven years to achieve an increase in funding rates by an average of 8.5 percent from €7 000 to €7605. This means that we ensure not only the quantity, but also the corresponding quality. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have also undertaken a restructuring in the field of research – which has already been suggested – especially as regards the last research billion. From 2005 to 2010, uncertainty was accompanied by how the framework conditions continue. We have now succeeded in the field of FWF, but also at the Academy and at all other institutions such as the IST, we can simply achieve a concrete, multiannual budgeting in the budget area. This will have an effect in such a way that we can increase by 12.5 percent over the next three years as far as the FWF budget is concerned. That's 61 million € more. Even the argument you have just referred to, we should ensure an authorisation rate, is a very plausible argument, but in the final effect it is: If I have more resources, but still much more applications, then of course I can't win the game like that! You just have to see on the offer side that we have increased significantly by 12.5 percent – and that in a structurally good framework. I clearly see this as progress. The same applies to the Academy of Sciences. We have an increase in the current performance agreement by € 47 million, i.e. 17 percent in concrete terms. So we increase – in order to address a few absolute figures – from € 268.5 million in the last three years of the benefit agreement to € 315 million. There, too, it has had a positive effect that we simply have continuity for those concerned, but also a certain control, especially in terms of cooperation, profiling and internationalization. We have introduced efficiency criteria for the first time, so that not only in the existing system, according to the motto “more from the same,” is done. That is to say, the universities had the unpleasant task of putting things in love there and there in order to get new ones in the direction of new structures. And that's what happened. We also have an increase in the budget by 24 percent at the IST in Klosterneuburg, specifically in Gugging, which is €10.3 million more than in 2015. This means that we can continue the expansion there too, even there we can appoint four to five new professors or professors and finance ten to 15 additional postdocs and 20 to 25 additional docs per year. So in this area too, you see, it is financed not only by researchers, but also by further expansion. If I calculate this now and if I compare the overall situation with other things I have done before, I have to say that we actually have a very, very positive starting point. Of course, she could be even better. I would like to address three criticisms that you are always expressing – even today – and which have also come back to committee. One is the question: Can we achieve the 2-percent target by 2020? For all those who do not know, we are currently 1.5 percent. The goal of achieving this would, of course, require appropriate funds, but not the federal government. As far as financing is concerned, we are already doing a lot of things about the federal government. The public expenditure in question is above average here at 1.7 percent, and we are clearly above OECD average and above the EU average. What we are missing here is the private means of business – Mr President, that is what the OECD says; if you smile mildly, please read it! – which we will now increase by means of the Act of Common Use. [[Abg. Kassinger: No, that's just not true!]] We now also have this possibility like Switzerland or Germany. Switzerland has about 1.2 billion for culture, science and others. We have this opportunity not to use this field so far. This will also help us accordingly. I wouldn't review the target down now. You know that: If you reduce a target that is ambitious, no doubt, immediately again, then you will also have less effort. I am more interested in increasing efforts, hoping that economic development – and we will talk about it in a moment – will continue to improve. Then we will also have a corresponding increase there. I'm coming to see you now, Mrs Maurer. I know you'd like to have more movement and light up and call everywhere and say: This and this is a huge problem! It might be good if you would call us. I've already thought if you don't find us, I'll give you my phone number. [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] But it's better, you don't call me because I don't think you want to understand. [[Cheerfulness at ÖVP and FPÖ]] [[Abg. Rädler: No, it doesn't understand!]] They always bring the same lead. I would also like to give you the press reports we have as prints. But that is not the crucial factor either. The crucial factor is – and you don't like to see this – that we have a very practical work in the field of science and research. It is not influenced by a discussion at the universities or with the high school. You would like to have this, “Uni burns” and others, but I can’t serve you with it. I also think the researcher, the students are more served by having good conditions. Maybe you could see this way here, too. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In the context also a second property. I mean, it's nice when you do that, but I hear now, I think for the fourth time already this story that we're taking away money from universities because the implementation of the Medical Working Time Act has now taken place. Someone even said that was supposed to pay the dog's death. This is a new regulation now. Imagine something happening there within the framework of excesses! This would actually endanger the patients. There is therefore a new regulation there. [[Abg. Maurer: This is not the task of the Ministry of Science!]] The problem is that, of course, the doctor's salaries are also part of the respective budget. And since there were greater increases there, as we were able to bring research into the other area, namely budgetaryly secured, do not have to resort to reserves, we will be making a part of reserve support. They said in a broadcast yesterday that the FWF would have overhead costs and other problems, or that would be passed on to the universities. We have increased university space structural funds by 30 million in the area of overhead costs. However, we also provided for appropriate cover in the field of teacher training – which has always been part of the university budget. So it's not just like we've outsourced everything that others have handed over to, but rather it's like we're going well-doed in the next few years – let's say, quite enough to not provoke you. And now to the third point, to the care relationship: We are always accused of why we do not manage to come to a more favourable care relationship in Austria, so that more supervisors are available for students. – This too is a question of money. We are able to keep the situation constant, which does not sound good, but it is good, because we also have an increase of 15 percent in the number of students working for exams. So more is done in the final effect there. But with 95 new professors, we also provide more quality and quantity. So we are working on that, it is a financing issue, but it has also improved a lot in this area. In summary, ladies and gentlemen: I think we are well placed throughout the scientific and research field, including the research rate, which is 3 per cent. They do not want to hear it, but we are in the fourth place in the European Union and are therefore in the lead. Of course, we can improve our efficiency, especially in the field of innovation followers and innovation leaders. We have provided potential and activities in the future. However, I believe that with the funding, with the Law on non-profit-making, we have ensured a rejuvenation, better career opportunities and an overall increasing quality with the new novel to the university law. I hope that you can all see this and agree to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e43191	Next speaker: Mr Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e43212	Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! According to the recent OECD study, we can also describe ourselves as a country of academics in the future, even if it is due to a change in the statistical survey, but it is now much more objective and just in terms of European or international comparison than it has been before. However, there is also a clear sign that we are also a country of decoupling, which reaches the educational opportunities. I would not like to speak, Mr Vice-Chancellor, to thank you personally at this point. I know about your commitment that the first decisive steps have been taken in the field of education reform. I believe that important steps, particularly with regard to the substructure of early education, are in the field of new opportunities in the 6- to 14-year-olds' school. I think these are very crucial, important steps. And I know that you have made an important contribution to this, and I do not want to say thank you for it. I hope that you will also give the right back wind when implementing it. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] One area I have particularly looked at is that of educational training; from my point of view, the challenge in the tertiary field is bad. You have already mentioned that the main part is, of course, located in your area. A total of € 225 million is estimated for educational training at the PHs and – also mentioned briefly – € 35 million for cooperations as additional resources from the Structural Funds. There is also a control possibility that we come where we actually want to go. I should like to quote briefly from a letter sent by the Austrian Science Council to the members of the Scientific Committee, who in a White Paper describes the high-school developments of recent years and analyses the problems of the Austrian higher education sector. He refers to his potential and also develops a concrete utopia. I have once looked at what is inside these utopias in the field of pedagogical universities. With your permission I may briefly quote from point 13 of this Utopia catalogue: “Pedagogical universities have achieved autonomy-oriented higher education” – in 2025; this year's outlook refers to: “and work closely with the universities through university schools of education, including in the field of curriculum planning. This applies in particular to the setting up of a master’s degree in the field of secondary education.’ It's not a lot to add to that. I mean, if you look beyond the year 2025, it can only be in the future that there are your own educational universities that provide and serve this in an optimal way. What the Council of Science still represents as a utopia for the year 2025, to realize this in the field of pedagogy training, is, as I think, our pre-eminent scientific and high-school policy task. We are working together on this objective! Mr Minister, Mr Vice-Chancellor, we have our support for this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e43292	Next speaker: Mrs VOYER (S). — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e43313	Good morning! Madam President. Minister! High house! Fathers. Of course, science is used to measuring. On the other hand, she should also be used to being measured, so to be accountable about her doing. If you look at the Court of Auditors' report with the 19 final recommendations, you have to have some doubts about the budget presented. The Science Council has also criticised the development of science policy. There are doubts as to whether the funds used are really the right way or the right recipient. In view of the high level of public debt, the Fiscal Council has already recommended to us in 2013 an overall strategy and related framework conditions that would be there: The level of education, innovation and research output in Austria should be increased. Budgetary consolidation efforts in the field of education should aim at improving efficiency and avoiding double-tracking in order to free up funds for the overall objectives, namely raising education levels and, above all, improving the quality of education. So the question is: How can we increase this innovative power of our economy? Minister Stöger already presented his priorities in the Committee on Budgets in promoting application-oriented research on innovation in production, mobility and support for young talents. All programmes aim to strengthen and, above all, expand cooperation between science and the economy and significantly increase the number of patents. We currently have three major funding agencies. Although they have different priorities, there are still a number of overlaps. In addition, it is known that, apart from these three major funding agencies, the federal states, the municipalities, the chambers, the unions, the social security funds et cetera also pay grants to various recipients. Here, because of the lack of a common funding database, some additional funding is possible. Yes, even the applicants themselves partially complain about this inconsistency of the support offer. It is very difficult for them to identify the right funding instruments. This is really not made easy for them here. I think it would be time to pool more here. A proposal would, for example, be to install a large Ministry of Education to produce synergies between the education, research and development sectors and to implement measures of this kind. To place them in a sustainable way for the future and not perhaps in the one-off action. In order to be able to provide the economic location of Austria with truly well-trained people in the long term, it is clear that the policy measures now need to be adopted. That means for us to achieve the best possible pooling of all financial and intellectual resources here. The research agendas will be coordinated with the scientific unit in order to optimise the use of resources. At present there are five different jobs: It is the Chancellor's Office, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Ministry of Science and Economy and the Ministry of Education to participate in research and teaching. A pooling of all these educational, research and development agents under one roof would also mean, on the other hand, a very transparent and manageable allocation of financial resources. And I think that this would be very, very positive in times like this. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The Ministry of Science should become a kind of key area of the future with high social responsibility. The fragmentation of these agendas is also recognised in the budget, because the field of research and science is divided into a total of three subdivisions: UG 31, UG 33 and UG 34. The education area can then be found extra in UG 30. We believe that this situation is counterproductive and above all prevents a transparent and manageable representation. We must bundle all relevant contents and combine them in a ministry and make them subject to them. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e43392	Mrs Himmelbauer is speaking next time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e43414	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear viewers on the gallery and in front of the screens! If you're going through Parliament's pillar hall these days, you'll find the author of the Federal Ministry of Science, Research and Economics. The reason for this is the end of the year of research – an initiative by Vice Chancellor Reinhold Mitterlehner in order to get the activities, the research priorities in Austria, especially the top achievements made in Austria and the researchers responsible for doing so, responsible for getting to the curtain. I should like to mention a few important key points which they would see here for the spectators who are not going to go to Parliament this week. Over the past ten years, expenditure on research and development has increased to € 10.1 billion, i.e. doubled. We thus achieve a research rate of 3 percent, the fourth best in Europe. More than 117 000 employees work in research and development, and nearly 6,000 patents were filed in 2014. As an economy with only a few natural resources, we need to build more on people, on their innovative power, on research and development in companies, in universities, in the universities and institutes in order to be at the forefront of the global race. This is why it is important for us to continue to make the site Austria attractive, for example for research intensities. sive companies through the increase of the research premium, for researchers through an additional premium, or by connecting small and medium-sized enterprises with research institutes through the expansion of competence centres, but also through the promotion of basic research, by increasing the financial resources for the years 2016 to 2018. Of course, we want to get even better. We have set high targets in terms of the research rate, the employment figures or the location attractiveness. Member Dr. Dägele has already referred to it: As far as the financial sector is concerned, of course we would like to see more, but despite the budgetary constraints, we are on the right track with this budget. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e43456	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Kassinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e43477	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Yes, the Federal Minister for Science and Research is, of course, in a difficult situation: He has to defend something he – and I believe that – knows for himself that we are hopelessly underfinanced in the field of science and research. If we want to achieve what we intend to achieve, if we want to play where we pretend to play, namely with the Innovation Leaders, if we want to compare ourselves with countries with which we should compare ourselves, namely Switzerland, Sweden, Germany and Cetera, then it is perfectly clear and clear that this budget in the field of science and research will not be enough at all. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is a pity because there is a causal chain in the field of science and research – that was also mentioned by Mr Karlsböck. There are, of course, between universities, research and innovation, innovation capacity and innovation dynamics, and, later, competitiveness and, of course, jobs. That is to say, we are already setting up the basis of this causal chain with insufficient resources and should therefore not be surprised if we have enormous problems in the field of employment. And we'll get them! By the way, of course, our social and welfare state is financed by the jobs. This means, of course, that investment in research, innovation and in universities is directly linked to the intensity of the expression of the social and welfare state. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Let us look at the figures – this also to the seriousness of the 2-percent target; They sometimes weaken it anyway, but let's really look at the numbers –: We currently have € 4.2 billion, and with the budget increase rates – and I already charge the additional €600 million – by 2019 we will come to € 4.5, maybe € 4.6 billion. We set the goal of reaching €6 billion by 2020, which corresponds to 2 percent, and I must say: This is not the case if one masters the basic methods of accounting and does not apply a high mathematics, where a equation produces several results, just as, in part, Mr Schelling does. With him, 72 minus 77 is zero; with me, 72 minus 77 is minus 5, so 5 billion € deficit. So the 2-percent target is really not reachable. Now you have to be so honest to say: Well, we're reviewing that down to 1,6 or 1,8!, which at the same time would mean that we openly admit that we It is not possible to play where we want to play, namely with Switzerland, with Germany, with Finland, with Sweden. These are precisely the innovation leaders we are saying that we also want to achieve such a leading position. But we will not come there with this budgetary equipment! In short, a fundamental position of the liberals in terms of research, because you mentioned that we will now take more responsibility for the private – I will then comment on the Privatstiftungsgesetz (UG 34) and on the draft –: Therefore, it is the task of the public hand and thus of the state to finance research and teaching, in particular basic research. We must not make the mistake of delegating responsibility to the private sector. The basic funding must therefore always come from the public sector. I have already come to basic research, which – as you all know – is FWF. The FWF's budget for the next year is estimated at €180 million. We've already thought about it, it'll be reduced by €20 million. This is not the case, as we have learned, because 24 million € are used from the so-called reserves – that is a topic of our own anyway. So we have 204 million €, which de facto corresponds to the same level, so increase rates are taking place in the zero-comma area. I was at a panel discussion at the Medical University in Vienna two weeks ago. As far as basic research is concerned, there is serious concern in that the resources for it are not sufficient. In recent years, we have had a good development in that there has been an increase in the number of applications – and that was the aim, but you are now killing this development, so to speak, by freezing the funds. This can only result in a reduction in the approval rate or in a reduction of the individual projects – both effects that are incompatible with the basic objective of improving them here. This means that from our point of view there would be a significant increase in FWF in the range of 60, 70, 80 million € – that is also the demand of science – and an annual increase of about 7 to 8 percent in order not to endanger this good development and not to abandon it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A word on Mr Gamon and Mr NEOS' motion for a resolution. – We will not agree. I do not think that this is seriously meant to mean that you do not want to drop the FWF approval quotas below 15 percent. According to the 2014 Ist-Numbers, the approval rates – depending on how we view them, either summarily or in terms of numbers – are about 20 percent in total, at almost 26 percent in numbers. That is to say, with your request, you want to ensure that the application rate is not halved. We can't go with that. An objective, according to which at least a holding of the application rate is to be ensured – that is, in the area 26, 28 percent – would be what we would at least call for.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e43569	Mrs Kucharovich's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e43590	Madam President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear students! Dear Seers! Positive in itself: There is more funding for universities and colleges. That's important and good. I would like, however, to address the social situation of students and to outline: How are students? Half of the students live monthly with less than € 850, 20 percent even with less than €600. And that's what I'm talking about, the apartment is already there, the food is there, so to speak, all the costs you have. In reality, however, life costs around €900 per month. That means it doesn't really matter. That's why 85 percent of students work, two thirds even more than 20 hours. That is, they have a part-time job in addition to their studies. This also means clearly longer study periods. The study aid is calculated on the income of parents. There is often a wrong situation, because when both parents are active, there is a disadvantage of students compared to other groups. That is, students who come from working-class families have quite clear disadvantages to other groups – keyword: towards self-employed people, or also to those where only one parent is employed. This means, on the one hand, that we promote that women are not employed. On the other hand, it can be seen that education is unfortunately still inherited in this form. We also want to promote the academic rate among students whose parents are workers. However, this is also prevented, so education in this area is unfortunately still dependent on the parents' wallet. In short: This reform is urgently needed – my colleague Kuntzl has responded. We have already taken some steps together, but students need this urgently. The first step should focus on the adjustment of the scholarship height, which is really overdue for a long time. I found it great, Mr Vice-Chancellor, that you have also agreed in committee that this is already overdue and urgent. One more word, please – that will be You're not surprised –: Student residences. We have opted for a reintroduction of home support. Students need this urgently, because a room costs 500 € in part, and no one can afford it anymore. Let's really work together on getting this soon!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e43635	Mrs Lichtenecker's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e43657	Madam President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to take an overarching look at the budget. If you look at the income structure, then it is not very happy, as long as there is a very outdated structure in revenue via the tax system, only a small environmental and distribution-righteous aspect is included, and on the other hand, we have a structure that is quite capable of improving. In this context, I would like to address those areas which we are discussing this morning and early afternoon. On the one hand, these are the UG 31 – the Science and Research category – and on the other the UG 33 – the Research in the Economy sector – as well as the UG 34, research in the BMVIT. If I look at these three areas, which are essentially the location of knowledge in Austria and the knowledge society in Austria, then it is only 6.2 percent of the total budget used for this enormously important area. We believe that it is very important and necessary to rework accordingly and to do more precisely these future-oriented areas. On the question that has already been raised today: How much is there? – It was the speech about it – the Minister and Vice Chancellor did it – that it could be much less. I would like to say quite clearly: It must be less and can no longer be if I look at the figures and data of our neighbours in comparison. When I look at Bavaria, one has just 242,000 students there, but spends €6.3 billion on it, or €26 000 per student. With 304 000, Austria has a little more students and is spending just 3.8 billion euros, which is 12 000 euros. [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: There are 15 000 €... OECD! Ruperta, look at OECD...]] You really see a misunderstanding in comparison to what we would actually need. It is similar when we look at very specific universities. Minister, you know how the situation of the Technical University in Vienna is compared to ETH Zurich and TU Munich. [[Abg. Lettenbichler:... the students themselves have to pay at tuition fees! Is that what you want?]] I want to start with ETH Zurich. They spend 78 000 per student, followed by TU Munich with 33 000, and at TU Vienna there are just 11 000 €. Of course it's going down. Where's that going? – On the one hand, in the rankings and above all, ladies and gentlemen, which is even more important, in the proportion of those students who actually do their studies. We have very high demolition rates, and this is related to the support at the universities, so that there are too few resources, too few teachers, too few professors. [[Call the ÖVP: It's all too little! It's all too little!]] And we have to change that! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You know, we have underfinanced universities. We need more resources for science and research, and we will be submitting a proposal at a later date. Nevertheless, there are very specific areas where we say very well that it is necessary to pay attention to this, namely the increase in the number of qualifications. And there is in the objective of action a measure which is to carry out public awareness work. Colleagues Himmelbauer has today given a beautiful example that is truly welcome – fine! – but there are other areas in this sub-division, Mr Minister, such as the children’s universities, where great work is being done, and they are being taught from this UG at just €500 000. Or – a very important instrument – the long night of research: For this reason, only €300 000 will be added. We mean, that's an absolute underdo away, here it needs much more resources. That's another evidence of poverty. In so far as: Getting away with the pink glasses, ladies and gentlemen from the government parties, to a clear look, to transparency and to create a corresponding research funding law! This ensures greater planning and legal certainty. And, of course, we need a massive increase in budgets for universities and especially for science and research.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e43723	Next, Mr Magistrate. Lettenbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e43744	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! We experience with Today's discussion is a seamless continuation of the discussion held over the past two days, where the opposition – as was expected and is – is broken every single position, every single chapter, and says it's all subdivided – that's what my previous speaker has mentioned – that everything is too little. But this is the difference between opposition and government: We have to bear responsibility. We have a responsibility to ensure that the available resources are used as best as possible. And this is precisely the responsibility of the Federal Government in the field of research and science, as I mean, very well. I can do this on the basis of a few figures. The budget in the field of science and research is increasing in contrast to those of other sectors and has been excluded from the necessary general savings measures. Despite savings pressure, the budget increases by a total of € 158.8 million. This is an increase of 3.8 percent, and this is a satisfactory and important signal in the sense of our strong scientific and research location. Austria is in an ever stronger, tougher location competition. In the field of science, focusing on research infrastructure, research institutions, top research, basic research is a clear positive signal, given the strength of our research sector in the public sector, but especially in our research and development companies. A clearly positive signal is also the increase in the research premium from 10 percent to 12 percent. I hear this from our companies again and again that this is a very important asset in the international comparison of locations, which brings clear benefits to the Austrian site. I also hear from our companies that it is difficult to find employee research in the so-called MINT subjects – mathematics, information technology, science and technology. There too, the Ministry of Science sets accents with additional resources in the FWF. Young people are supported here: 80 percent of the funds, as you know, are used to promote young people. Summary: The Federal Government has succeeded in meeting the challenges of the research site with the present budget. The levers are properly used in those areas which are particularly important for the research and industrial location in the long term. It is therefore especially thanks to the Minister of Science for his commitment that, despite the given framework conditions, the budget can be increased by €160 million and the right cornerstones have been struck. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e43790	Next, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek's word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e43811	Madam President. Federal Minister! Yes, Mr Lettenbichler, you can deal with the whole subject as seriously as you said it, so serious and state-bearing that you eventually move away from the people so far that you land under 20 percent. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Loacker.]] I always think so when I look into this sector. Always before elections, it seems to me, it says: Ave, Minister, morituri te salutant!, because each time it gets a little less. [[Call the ÖVP:Ha, ha!]] [[Call to the FPÖ: It's true!]] - Good. [[Abg. Lopatka: But that was actually an insult!]] To the science budget: One point that we have been criticizing, for a long time, is the study place restriction. With a number of means and with a number of millions... [[Abg. Lopatka: But that was actually an insult! Do you know what “morituri too salutant ” means?]] – Let’s do a Latin course afterwards! Now we're taking care of the budget. [[Abg. Lopatka: Do you know what you said?]] Some millions, Mr Klubobmann, we use to keep students away from the universities! Now I'm saying, Well, I don't preach for a drop-out quota, but the chancellor falls under the topic of drop-out quota, the green science spokesman falls under drop-out quota, so it can't be that bad either. But wouldn't it be better to demand additional qualifications, for example, as it is in sport? In sport it is quite clear: If I want to study sports, I have to meet certain requirements – objectively; that does not depend on climate, seasonal change or otherwise, that is always the same. For example, we could also introduce this to the publicists, to the political scientists and so on – just where we have too many. In the MINT subjects, we do not have this situation, thank God, but what prevents anyone from being just volunteer once before he deals with publicity? That would be a part of the press promotion. And there's a lot of things like this. And: The core would be to reconsider the Matura. The Matura is the classic entry into higher education. We should get away from getting the Matura down and down to a so-called new center, but we should deliberately use it as a preparation for higher education. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kuntzl: That's why there is the central matura!]] A fundamental note on the entire science budget: Mr Federal Minister, you have criticized us and told us that we are using false figures because you are allowed to use reserves. Now I would like to believe that this is agreed with the Minister of Finance that you may use your reserves, but in a regular company it is so that if you attack deposits, you also write this into the budget. But we don't see that in our budget. – Then why should we believe that the reserves are usable? I would like a little more clarity. Finally, a small comment: Mr Federal Minister, you know that it is always good for outsourced companies to deal with research, technology and science in the broadest sense, if they have international relations. However, if the managing directors are only more than “travel engineers” – under quotation marks – not to bring together international relations – as your State Secretary has said, but to take care of their own ego, because the rulers have not become ministers, then you should think about whether it is really useful to have every managing director in world history – and whether it is just because it is a woman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e43920	The next item is Mrs Hakel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e43941	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor and Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, the Ministry of Science's budget contributes significantly to the design of the framework conditions for science and research as well as social innovation. This budget, although slightly increased, of course, has not fulfilled all our wishes for the Austrian research and science site, but it is nevertheless a step in the right direction against the background of the budgetary framework. It must be clear: Investments in science and research are among the central engines of our Republic. It is therefore more than worthwhile to invest in this area. Research institutions can also plan with increasing budgets. Approximately €300 million will be budgeted in the budget framework for teaching and research from 2016 onwards. Most of this funding goes to the Science Fund and the Academy of Sciences. By increasing the budget, the Science Fund will also receive the necessary planning security in the future. So far, the existing reserves had to be worked on, above all. However, we have also secured jobs in the future, especially for the many young researchers, because 80 percent of the additional funds go to this target group. There will also be planning security for the Austrian Academy of Sciences in the future. However, it is also important to take further steps in terms of content to further enhance quality at universities and research institutions. There is still a lot to be done, especially when it comes to supporting young researchers in addition and providing them with the necessary framework conditions in Austria. This is about additional doctoral and post-doc positions. It also needs improvements in the research infrastructure and additional offensives for our universities. After all, in the government programme we have also clearly known the research and economic location of Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e43981	The next item is Mrs Jank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e44002	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear students at the gallery! For you, I might also have something interesting today, but before, to colleague Kucharovich and also to colleague Lichtenecker: So how are you? 900 € Costs of living for students, and they are to be ridden to the full?- Oh, my God! Somehow I have the impression – you can take a bond from Margaret Thatcher – that you are obviously afraid that the money of the others will come out of you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Rädler: I don't know about the world of work!]] [[Call to the ÖVP: Who is to pay for this?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kucharovich.]] I believe that it is necessary to maintain that training and education must also be of value to individuals, and those in need will be sufficiently supported in this country. You've got to hold on to that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Rädler: Left-wing dreams!]] [[Abg. Lightenecker: What did you want to tell me?]] [[Abg. Krainer:...! Listen!]] Now to this budget in due time: It is particularly gratifying that more resources will be available to the technical colleges. This is so important, because the inflow to the colleges is unbroken. It is equally gratifying that there is more resources for the FWF. I would like to stress two initiatives, one of which has already mentioned Mrs Lichtenecker, namely the Kinderuniversität. – This is a really encouraging project. 14 € we spend there per student and student, and there are 34 000 young people we reach on average each year with this project. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lightenecker.]] We allow these children to participate in lectures, camps, workshops and much more. It gives the scientists fun and joy and the children alike. I mention a second project, namely the Sparkling Science initiative. This may be very interesting for the young people at the visitor gallery. This is a project in which students can participate in concrete research projects, so they can look directly into how research works. These cooperations lead to knowledge being imparted on the one hand and on the other hand to better learn young people in what direction they want to go, which choice of studies they might want to make. In conclusion: I am very pleased that there will be this law of non-profit, because it will enable more funds to be spent on research. But let us not forget what resources are already being spent on the farm! In Vienna alone, private research funds, i.e. what companies use for research and development, account for almost 50 percent of the total research budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e44116	Mrs Kucharovich spoke on an actual amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, you are aware of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e44140	Madam President. Mrs. Jank claimed that I would have said that the €900 for students should be fully covered. It is true that I have spoken about average living costs at this level. I've never talked about covering these completely, but I've shown the life realities of students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e44180	Next speaker: Mr Buchmayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e44201	Madam President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Now I had chosen such a positive start for my speech, but, Mrs Jank, I would like to say already: Obviously, you are very removed. They obviously don't know what life costs these days. I would ask myself why there are so many students who have to go to work. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Tamandl.]] [[Call the FPÖ:Hello!]] [[Abg. New elections!]] Now for the positive: In summary, I would like to say that the science budget for the tertiary sector is rising noticeably, from 2016 to 2018, in addition by €615 million with possible infrastructure measures of up to €200 million. Some 500 new places have already been planned for the academic colleges for the 2015/16 academic year. For the academic year 2016/17, there will be 315 additional places to study, and from 2018 again 200 new courses, thus totaling 48 540. I would already call this positive development at the technical colleges a remarkable response of policy first to increased demand, but also to the permeability of our education system and of course also as a measure to meet requirements from industry and industry, since the very strong focus of the technical and economic disciplines on technical and economic subjects with very high degree rates and, especially at the vocational colleges, very many diplomas at minimum study time, which also speaks for the quality of our professional universities. In total, this is a very positive development in view of the fact that many budget chapters focus on saving. Mrs Maurer, when If you call all of this an absolute failure, I would ask myself in your place the question of reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e44263	Next speaker: Mr Ertlschweiger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e44284	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I think that the whole debate can easily be summarized here: The science budget, the science and research budget, is not just rising, it remains the same in certain areas, that is clear, but it is excluded from the necessary savings measures. [[Abg. Lugar: Does it stay the same or does it rise? What now? Does it stay the same or does it rise?]] Ladies and gentlemen, that's what counts, and we certainly don't get to talk about that here. You can't do that, either, because those are facts and numbers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Köchl: What did you say last year?]] Austria invests in economically difficult times especially in research and development and in Austrian competitiveness. We heard it today: We have an increase of €615 million for universities, we have an increase in the high school sector, we have an increase in funds for the Austrian Academy of Sciences and we have an increase in the fund to promote scientific research. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the facts, and that is not a bad thing, even if you still like to be here and do so. You can always wish for something, just, a budget is not a wish concert. [[Abg. Köchl: But a year ago you wanted something else!]] Science and research will be spent in the 2016 budget with a total of € 4.3 billion – € 4.3 billion, which is as high as never before! Research expenditure will reach 3% of GDP. Next year, the research premium will reach 12 percent. I'll tell you: We are setting the right accents here that will help to secure the future of the site and further increase our competitiveness, and this is ultimately what counts, Mr Lugar. [[Abg. Lugar: Who is “we”?]] - That's what counts. You're a man of business. This will strengthen the economy. [[Abg. Lugar: Who is “we” and what is true?]] One thing I would like to put Mrs Maurer on the road – she is still in the hall thanks to God –: Mrs Maurer, Bruno Kreisky once said: Mr. Col., learn history! I say: Mrs. Col., learn to call!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e44378	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Karl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e44399	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! In the school sector, it is just starting to ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On the other hand, universities have already been released into autonomy under the University Law 2002. They have since proved that they deal very well with this autonomy, that they benefit from it, even if it is not always easy to actually live autonomy, because autonomy of course also means taking responsibility. The university autonomy, however, also covers, of course, the financial conduct of the universities. The basis for a successful financial performance and, of course, for successful development of universities is a corresponding public funding. It is therefore very welcome that there is a total of € 615 million more in money for the 2016 to 2018 service agreement period. In total, €9.73 billion can be made available to universities – and believe me, this money is very well invested at the universities. The range of tasks of the universities ranges from ensuring good study conditions to ensuring a high degree of top-level research. Universities must therefore not only be attractive educational institutions, but also attractive employers – attractive employers not only for top researchers, but also for young scientists and, for example, for non-scientific staff. They are also required to be internationally competitive and to cooperate at national and international level with universities, non-university institutions and the economy. The tasks of the universities are not only diverse, but simply indispensable. Forget Please do not add value to our universities! Education and knowledge are important factors in production and location, ensuring our social prosperity and the economic level. Even in the future, our universities want and will be able to make a goal-oriented fast and successful study, a modern, innovative work and a life of prosperity possible. I can only repeat it once again: The money that our universities get is very, very good investment. There's no doubt about that for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e44447	The Federal Minister has also spoken. - Please, Dr. Mitterlehner.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e44469	Ladies and gentlemen, as I still have time to speak, I do not want to leave a few things in the room that have just developed in the presentation. First of all, I should like to draw attention to what Mr Kassinger said. He described exactly what the authorisation rate is. Mrs Gamon, you obviously twisted the facts. He's right. Secondly, he also referred to the question of reserves. We made it clear to the committee. There are €24 million of deposits, which is because we have projects with a long-term financing. There is a need to ensure funding, and this can only be done by means of reserves. If one does not qualify this as a deposit and accordingly as a reserve resolution, then one has it in the budget and does not put the deposit in place. This also applies to construction projects and is in itself a serious process. You can check this easily at the time of the invoice. I simply see such discussions as this, but, Mr Deimek, what you have given of yourself is something else. I mean, first of all, you know, you're fine personally, but you don't have to worry how well we're doing. - Let's wait! [[Abg. Deimek: Look at you!]] The second in this context: I find it absolutely inappropriate, I must tell you that now that someone is personally attacking someone like Mrs Egerth and to accuse us in the context of that we have initiated travel or even world travel and internationalization efforts without effect. The FFG is its own company with its own Supervisory Board, with its own approval bodies. This has nothing to do with me, and the background – you have also received it in a parliamentary request – is exclusively technical purposes. An internationalisation package and a strategy has been developed there, especially as regards Japan, Korea, Taiwan, Singapore, these are very important partners for the FFG, and you can then also derive from the concrete research activities and mediation, whether it was successful or not. Research is internationalized, you know that too, and so you can't do everything from the location, from here. Everything else is clear. Don't make it look like there's something wrong with the process! This is also an intolerable argument against the very well-functioning managing director. [[I should like to congratulate Mr Lichtenecker on his report.]] Secondly, Mr Ruperta, we have already discussed this in committee. If we have a budget of €77 billion, then there cannot be an amount below €7 billion in the way that this is always addressed. [[Abg. Lightenecker: You've already confused apples with pears!]] There's a lot missing. We have 9.7 billion of the total budget, and in this context, of course, this is more than 10 percent of 77 billion. [[Abg. Lightenecker: That's not true! Three years!]] It's even better: It has been mentioned that we have half of Germany as far as our expenditure per student is concerned. There I would just read, and there is a simple OECD paper, “Education at a Glance. ” There's the following in there: Germany has 17 157 dollars per student, which is a lot, we have 15,549. But now comes the crucial point – these are the figures from the year 2012 –: OECD – 15,028, and EU – 14,955. So if you want to see it positively, then we are above every cut, if you want to see it negatively, then we are, and this is our model, with Germany still in demand, but you don't have to do half of that. Let's stick to the facts! It is enough to do, but as bad as some would like, we do not lie down, and bad-making does not benefit science or a student, which does not benefit anyone in Austria at all.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e44541	On science and research subdividing, I now have no more words available. The debate is closed. [[10:39:18]] UG 33: Economy (Research) UG 40: Economy
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e44579	We're coming to the next subject area. First of all, Mr. Dr. Kassinger has been mentioned. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e44604	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! UG 40 Economy, Budget advice: The budget itself now does not come much – by the way. In this area we have a budget of approximately €364 million, now shortened to €322 million. This is a minimum of approximately €41 million, with the reduction in thermal rehabilitation in particular not a signal to support this budget. The funding for thermal rehabilitation is reduced from € 45 million to € 13.5 million. This is neither a proper signal for economic policy nor an environmental policy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The Minister of Economic Affairs is sitting here today in the National Council, and that is why, as it were, he is responsible for the state of the economy or the framework conditions within which the economy can best develop. But I'm going to weaken this and say, The Minister is not responsible for everything, but we have, and this is known, a tax and tax rate that is enormous – no! – a complex tax law, huge unemployment and huge public debt. [[Vice chancellor Mitterlehner: For the negative definitely!]] But you are not solely responsible, Mr Vice-Chancellor. In fact, Mr Hundstorfer should also be sitting here in Parliament today, as far as responsibility for this state is concerned. And in relation to that, I now bring a number: As I said, the Ministry of Economic Affairs has about € 320 million, but Mr. Hundstorfer, in his ministry, as we heard yesterday, has a need of €20 billion – just to show the dimensions once. And the issue for these €20 billion can now also be checked with regard to their ability to be forward-looking. What you, Mr Vice-Kanzler, are responsible for, but very probably, is the topic of the database of transparency, which has been discussed for years – together with colleagues Schelling. However, it is not possible to establish this transparency database. At the same time, we know that in Austria, as far as the funding area is concerned, we have disastrous quotas compared to competitive countries in the sense that we are promoting far too inefficient. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What you, Mr Vice-Chancellor, are responsible for in the field of the economy is the Energy Efficiency Act. A lot has already been said on the subject of red tape, and I would like to ask the specific question: What about the regulation of measures under the Energy Efficiency Act? Are they? Are they coming? – The economy would be very grateful to learn what measures are being taken You want to meet these legal obligations in the future. I no longer want to address the objectives of impact, because we have already discussed this in detail in the Committee. As far as the seriousness and sensuality of these objectives are concerned, I think we agree: There is still a considerable need for improvement if one is to take this seriously. They themselves said – I wrote it down – that they should not overestimate the objectives of action, but that they should be designed in such a way that they are a control and steering instrument. – Unfortunately, they are not at the moment in many areas. I would like to close my remarks with a detailed area which is particularly damaging to the Austrian economy or is causing this damage, namely the unscrupulous Russian sanctions. I am already aware that the dramatic declines in imports and exports with Russia are not solely due to the sanctions, but also to the general economic situation of the Russian Federation. But: This is a point where we do not have to go further with sanctions, so to speak. We liberals are not at all convinced that these sanctions make sense. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And because the argument is always presented: Yes, this will be decided at European level, we must take this into account!, I would like to say: In the context of the EU, we are now adopting larger countries, such as Germany or England, where there is already massive criticism of these Russian sanctions in France, and the small ones have to go along with them. This is not the case, we do not have to make every fool of the European Union! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I therefore make the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e44692	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e44797	Next speaker: Mr Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e44818	Madam President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Kassinger has already done this: It has also been reduced in the economic chapter, but it is very important that we and the ministry have seen that the resources available are used very efficiently. If you look at general economic development and financial development, you can see – for example, at the AWS points – that, due to the good interest rate, we are going away from the promotions to more liabilities and guarantees. We have increased the guarantees in Austria Wirtschaftsservice GmbH from €200 million to €300 million in the promotion of young entrepreneurs, which is a very important instrument. That's an increase by a third. This is a real and important measure, especially because young entrepreneurs today can rely on new funding opportunities that we have already created, such as crowdfunding. We have left the entire funding area unchanged in the tourism sector – and my colleague Obernosterer will continue to address it – which is also a very important impetus. Tourism is well known to be the sign of the Austrian economy's relationship, and we have also put in place the right measures in this area. Very important – and this is a point that is particularly important for us – is the Austrian Business Agency, where we see that we get more international companies to Austria, with the focus on getting international start-ups to Austria. In this area too, with almost €5 million, we have a dose that has remained unchanged. This is also a very important location factor. If you look at the entire business start-up dynamics in Austria, you can see that we are on the right path. Entrepreneurs want to move something themselves, and if you see that we have nearly 30 000 new business start-ups in Austria every year, then the framework conditions cannot be as bad as they are always claimed. I think that we are also taking the right measures in this area. The internationalization of the Austrian economy – we earn 6 € of 10 abroad – is also an essential factor, and with “go-international” and with the donation of € 56 million, the whole chapter is well secured. If I say now that it is about impulse, labour market, economic location, then I can also say that, for example, we already have 10,000 apartments via ARA bau GmbH on rail with the housing program. This is an investment volume of €2 billion. And in the next few years, we want 30 000 new residential areas. This is the first time that the Commission has adopted a proposal for a Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the This is a real and important step, not only for the location and as an impetus for the economy, but also for the labour market, because it also creates 20 000 new jobs. And thus we have a GDP factor impulse of 0.4 percent. In addition, measures such as the additional wage reduction, which has also been decided at the labour market summit, are also included. The extra wage costs have always increased, now it finally goes down. I believe that after decades of increase, it is quite, very important that we finally bring about a turnaround in this area. Summa summarum, when considering the measures, we can say that one should not always be pessimistic, but one should be optimistic. Entrepreneurs have a lot of power. Thank you for the continued great commitment and thank you for the good cooperation with the workers. Austria is on the right track with these measures for the economic location, and we can go optimistically into the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e44876	The next item is Mrs Lichtenecker's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e44904	Madam President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! I have just said to Mr Vice-Chancellor that we are now making a tutorial on the subject: How do I read the budget figures? Unfortunately, we were a little too late with an actual correction to the UG 31, but I have to correct that. And that's... For science and research, as can be read in the Federal Estimate, €4.2 billion is planned for next year. In the UG 33 it is 101 million €, in the UG 34 it is 428 million €, and this together results in a total of 4.8 billion €. This is 6.2 percent of the total budget of €77 billion. – That as the clear and correct position of the previous said. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now I'm going to the UG 33 range: Economics (Research), and the UG 40: Economics. Today we will certainly hear many examples of rankings, I now want to take a central point where Austria itself, where the Austrian Federal Government has set itself the goal of progress, and this is the Innovation Union Scoreboard, where we have been falling back to one place every year since 2009 – in the meantime we have landed from the sixth place to the 11th place. Minister, of course the alarm bells have to ring. Then: What does that mean for the economy? What does that mean for the whole development? What does that mean for innovation? . I mean, that's where we need to focus more, set more priorities and move forward accordingly. Next point: the research premium, which has already been mentioned today. The research premium was increased from 8 per cent to 10 per cent in 2011, now from 10 per cent to 12 per cent. Yes, Austria has a good system of research funding with the combination of direct and indirect research. Nevertheless, in times of limited resources, I feel it is urgently necessary to check efficiency. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not at all possible that you do not even take a look at it and see how efficiently these resources are used. There is no evaluation of indirect research funding to date, and one goes freshly and makes an even bigger bug. We call for transparency and clarity and an appropriate evaluation. At the same time, we consider it necessary to focus more on small and medium-sized enterprises. These are those who, with full force, also stand with their employees, who also carry them through the crisis in difficult times, and also in view of the fact that this is the great quality of a company, namely the dedicated, qualified employees. To this end, we believe that it is necessary to focus on introducing a corresponding bonus in the research premium for small and medium-sized enterprises. In addition, we think it is a mistake that we have abolished the tax advantage of the service inventive step for employees in innovation. That's, as I said, a mistake. I think we have to work to reverse this. On the subject of budgetary truthfulness and clarity: Ladies and gentlemen, we need action in this budget, especially in the case of the UG 33. There are only more rough structures, and there are 101 million € under three categories. And then is the end of the passage! That would be like getting a budget estimate for building houses and de facto having three positions: the basement, the house and the roof. I can't do that! We need transparency and clarity in the budgets, because only in this way can they be comprehensible. This is also similar in the case of reserves. There is hardly any more comprehensible: What does that mean now? How will film promotion actually be paid out of reserves, even if the funds will be available? Mr Minister, I am here asking you to take the appropriate steps and to create transparency. When it comes to economic promotion, we think it is a serious mistake that the resources for thermal renovation in the UG 40 have been reduced in such a way. This is a mistake in terms of climate change, and this is a disadvantage for the craftsmanships in the region and, of course, a major disadvantage for jobs. The same applies to the lack of funds for district heating and cooling. And that the climate fund has been cleared is also a huge disadvantage, for the economic location as a whole. In this context, Mr Vice-Chancellor, I can inform you of an up-to-date interview by the head of SME research in Austria on how difficult the economic situation is, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. There is – I quote – clearly said: “We need more apartments, kindergartens and schools as well as more thermal renovations. The public hand would have to pre-press and pre-finance here." The following is added: “More money will flow back to the budget than will be spent through these funding in the construction sector.” So even from the point of view of the experts with many years of experience comes the clear message: more money for thermal renovation! Overall, this budget is not a good sign for very modern areas such as the environmental engineering industry. In this area, we in Austria, in all the federal states, have highly innovative companies that do great work. There are huge funds in the Internationalisation Plan to the Chamber of Commerce, but at the same time 7 percent of this sum is spent to drive forward energy technology, environmental technology, and that, although this is a global market that is growing enormously, and there are estimates that up to 2025 around €4.4 trillion will be implemented in this market. So summa summarum is a budget that extends towards the ceiling in the funding. With all due regard to the need to increase efficiency, we believe that it was urgently necessary to increase the funding in the field of research and, on the other hand, to place a clear emphasis on the future of small and medium-sized enterprises and, in particular, to promote climate protection.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e44995	Next item is the report by Mr Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e45016	Madam President. Mr Vice-Chancellor and Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is now 95 minutes since our Finance Minister Hans Jörg Schelling, in the Economic Parliament, relativized the statement by the President of the Chamber of Commerce, Leitl, that we are in the valley and no longer at the head of Europe, at the opening. He pointed out that if you look at the development of the last ten years, Austria is still in the leading group. And yes, the Minister of Finance is right! To justify this, I would like to point out a few things now. The negative things were discussed yesterday in the Social and Labour Chapter. Let's look at the comparison between 2007, the last year before the crisis, and 2014. It is true that in the case of unemployment, we have an increase of 4.9 percent in 2007 to 5.6 percent in 2014. This is an increase of 14.28 percent, i.e. an increase of one seventh. That's bitter! This is a problem and a reason why the Federal Government is taking decisive measures to combat rising unemployment. The chapters, beginning with housing, have already been discussed. But the real statement about how good the framework and how good the economic location is can only be explained with hard facts. I know you always come with these “nets” rankings, which are half based on some surveys: How is access to the golf course for managers?, and similar things. Honestly, however, you have to say: That's not so meaningful! I know Professor Schneider has told us in the budget hearing that he detects the black revenues from surveys by the companies. Also an interesting method, I find great, the functionality of asking for black sales by telephone surveys, however, I would like to doubt. Hard facts are facts that can be measured. And if you look at these, you can see that the volume of our goods exports, i.e. the volume of products exported from Austria, increased from € 114.68 billion in 2007 to € 128.11 billion. This is an increase of 11.71 percent. And if you look at the services, you can see that their volume has increased from € 38.7 billion to € 50.6 billion, i.e. by 30.75 percent. As a result, it can be said that there has been an overall increase in our current account in the years from 2007 to 2014, despite the crisis, despite higher imports, despite the rise in raw material prices that has occurred during this period. We show a consistently positive current account. Because of this one can say: Our economy is fully competitive! Listen Therefore, you go up with the slender step in this area! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] One of the reasons for this is the good economic policy made by this Federal Government. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Höbart.]] And as far as this is concerned a chapter Ruperta Lichtenecker mentioned earlier, namely research and development: Let's take a look at the F&E-Quote! [[Abg. Höbart: Stay in the Chamber of Commerce!]] We are of 2.43 percent in 2007 now at 2.99 percent in 2014. Today we will be more than 3 percent and are on fourth place in Europe. This is a forward-looking economic policy and no reason to disprove the location and the framework conditions. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] This country has a good economy. [[Abg. Höbart: That's what they're talking to you in the Chamber of Commerce!]] We are well placed and we have a federal government that has made the framework reasonable. Fortunately, the FPÖ is no longer present – it was much worse at that time, Mr President!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e45100	Next, Mr Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e45122	Mr President. Mr Minister and Vice-Chancellor! Allow me to comment because you are also responsible for this budget in your role as Head of the Group and Vice-President. Entrepreneurial wisdom says debt cannot be combated with new debts. – I know you’re not so far from entrepreneurial thinking, but I feel that way as an entrepreneur. And since you spoke of stories earlier, I would like to say that I have a bit of a problem if I follow your stories so as to wait for their implementation. They once had very good approaches: For example, in connection with the Austrian tourism strategy – since you have been the minister responsible for this place for two years – you said – or was held so, it is documented – of a depreciation period of 15 years. They spoke – and so it was documented – of a red tape reduction, of the abolition of bagatoll taxes and of the permanent business order. And if so, economic Federal Secretary-General Haubner mentions that – I am looking forward to tourism! – the right steps have been taken, then I would also like to remind you that even Mr Vice-Chancellor and then Minister of Economic Affairs said that the strengthening of SMEs and tourism companies in the 2014 budget had to be strengthened. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] And in this budget, you're talking about: Strengthen SMEs and tourism companies, strengthen the location. – These are real stories, you have to say. Shut up! In this regard, I must give my assent to Mr Lichtenecker: If you're talking about the future, you can't just write stories, you have to do it. Let us now look at the truth content of your statements and statements! The fact is: The AfA has not been shortened to 15 years, but you simply failed, because your announcement is simply a misnotification, that is, insofar as the AFA has been extended to 40 years. With the tax reform and the extension of the AFA, you will mainly destroy the local economy and, above all, the tourist sector. And then Mr Haubner cannot say that these are the right steps. What happened with regard to red tape? – You know very well that nothing has happened at all! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] As far as the bagatell taxes are concerned, I recall the sparkling wine tax. She didn't bring what you've announced here at Weitem, she didn't bring what we're doing. Your Minister of Finance has budgeted €32 million. If you could do this with your anti-fraud budget, I don't want to imagine that this isn't happening either, because then we'd be pretty good at the "Semmerl". Then we don't even know how it goes anymore. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] In order to modernise the trade system: The proposal has even been tabled by Mr Matznetter and Mr Haubner, but I think that has been re-buffed. – They do not create jobs, although it would be the easiest and fastest tool to create jobs if you were to finally reform the trade regulations. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] The following is also a personal concern to me. You can't go here right now and say you've raised the OEW budget. No, no, no, The membership contribution has always remained the same in recent years and remains the same for the next year. You have only promised a one-time increase of € 4.1 million. I believe that if you want to invest in the future, if you want to do something good to the tourism industry and not just pack them at the boat and dive into the water, then you should finally harmonise this public budget in the long run. I would also like to say the following: If it is then again said that every fifth company in this country is decommissioning employees, then the alarming signs are. And there you can't say that a representation of interest is to blame because it makes a negative mood. You are responsible for this negative mood, which is your responsibility as a member of the government, because you create a negative mood. It is not in the businessman's tool to provide for everything positive, but it can only act on the basis of how your budget is designed, as you prove to increase the taxes – proveably increase! – and above all, how you push tourism with it. And that can't be! Mr. Vice-Chancellor, Mr. Party Chief! You should not just prevent, but you should allow entrepreneurship. That should be your goal. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e45219	The next speech is by Mr Magistrate. Lettenbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e45240	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, we are in demanding times. These days, of course, focus on the issues of security policy and integration policy, but also on both economic and employment policy and economic and labour market development. And of course, all of this is happening against the background of scarcer budgetary resources and the obligation to deal responsibly with them. These challenges must be faced – this is what this Federal Government is doing – and it is also important to deal successfully with them. It is not to be found that there is a reduction in expenditure in the subdivided economy. Of course, this is not necessarily gratifying, but to achieve a balanced budget – and we hear again and again about the opposition that this is called for – and to reduce the structural deficit is also a contribution here, too, in order to have scope for action in the future. With more detailed consideration, it can be seen that the current expenditure of the economy – that is responsible management of resources – is even more concentrated on those areas that make the greatest contribution to positive economic and job security. At the moment, we need to focus on this. Especially in a country as export-oriented as Austria is now – and that has already been mentioned – the main focus is on small and medium-sized enterprises and the internationalisation offensive. It is particularly gratifying that in the cooperation of industry and science as well as in the field of innovation and technology transfer, the holding of the funding amount of € 100 million has been given an important sign for the company R&D. In addition, the Federal Government is also committed to a sustainable economic recovery in the economic and labour market sectors. A long-term claim has been implemented with the recently decided reduction in additional labour costs. With a reduction of almost € 1 billion by the reduction of service providers' contributions in two stages, Austria's companies are significantly relieved. This is an important step towards attracting Austria's industrial and industrial location, even if further steps, such as in the field of working time flexibility, may follow. The determined relief of the labour factor – often called for; here there is a turnaround now – promotes the investments of businesses and will be an engine for growth and employment. And once again it should also be said from this point of view that there will be no reduction in family benefits. Yes, I have already said that there are savings in the budget, but at the same time the right levers are being activated to revive the economy. The housing offensive, the expansion of road, railway and broadband infrastructure, an active labour market policy, a comprehensive tax reform, as well as the reduction of pay-as-you-go rates will provide decisive reliefs and growth impulses. This will have a significant impact on the economy and create additional investment and jobs – which is also confirmed by leading economic researchers. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: Who says that?]] As you can see, in these difficult times the Federal Government is acting prudently and very responsibly in the sense of our entrepreneurs, but also in the sense of our employees. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: But that was well formulated, the speech!]] This should also be acknowledged and supported accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e45296	The next item is the speech by Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e45347	Mr President, thank you for your speech. Mr. Minister! Frank Stronach would say he is the most important minister in this country. [[Abg. Cap: That is wrong!]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear listeners, young listeners on the gallery – it's about your future – and in front of the televisions! The budget is the basis... [[Abg. Cap: Leo, the picture is wrong!]] [[Abg. Rädler: This is the wrong Taferl!]] [[Abg. Obernoster: That was here yesterday!]] - What's wrong? – Some colleagues do not seem to have the whole reality, but thank you for the note! [[The speaker controls the image of the ship that is correctly positioned.]] I'm glad someone cares about me. The budget is the basis for the economy, but I think that even more important than the budget is the mood, the basic mood in the population. I mean, it's essential that we create a business-friendly, labour-friendly mood outside the population, because this is the most important environment: Optimizm, positive mood that economy takes place, that economy is made, that is produced and that wages and taxes can be paid. I think that's the essential thing. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I have therefore put the ship on the floor, because I think that we also need to find a fair system in the economic system, on the basis of social standards, on the basis of production standards and, of course, on the basis of the financial standards. I should like to give a first example, after I have briefly addressed my colleagues, Mr Matznetter. Mr Matznetter referred to hard facts. Of course these are necessary, but I think I will bring the first soft fact from the last two days of the debate. I have deliberately withdrawn it for today, because of its importance, and not yesterday, in the debate on agriculture. By removing this agricultural diesel, the agricultural diesel production of €50 million, the regional economy has lost €50 million of order volume: the regional agricultural machinery trade, the regional agricultural machinery industry and, of course, the regional construction industry. These €50 million will not be invested by farmers because they do not get the money, and thus they cannot invest it and reset investment. This is the case with tourism, so it is in all other areas, unfortunately especially with the gastronomy and the hotel industry. There, the criminalization, starting from the registration requirement to the ban on smoking, and the constant new conditions, are still under way, the constant new difficulties. We need positive support there! This is the best ground for a positive economic field. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] However, this fair economy must not consist of pickerln, otherwise we are exactly where we are in the food sector – we would probably have 120 different quality pickerls and none is so valid and honest – but we need a fair economic system. I would also particularly like to address the financial system and call for it to be removed from the speculations, from the profits that will be withdrawn from our economic system and will land somewhere in non-taxable countries. As a small example, I brought trade with the environment. It is quite interesting that today’s “standard” reports on the fires in Indonesia, and Dr. Tassilo has already pointed out the refugee problem. [[Keeping part of the newspaper edition up to date]] [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: That's Wallentin!]] One could have produced the picture of the boat with the refugees today, namely with the economic refugees. I'm saying that doesn't matter at all. [[Interference of Vice-Chancellor Mitterlehner.]] Although we have to categorize in war and economic refugees, we will be – and thank you, Minister, you have addressed a clearer way of working – these economic refugees cannot even stop with ten meters high fences if we withdraw the livelihood on the ground. And that happens, and I think it doesn't matter if it's in Mato Grosso these extreme forest routings or similar elsewhere. Now is the environmental summit in Paris, and I am curious about what is being discussed there. Brazil explains that there have been no redundancies for a year – and in reality, the five-fold area of Berlin has been reddished for new soybean areas, for palm oil cultivation areas. I think that's the main problem, and that's what it's all about. One point that becomes very important, of course, is TTIP. That's up to you. I think that if 2 000 SMEs have signed a petition against TTIP and ask 800 SMEs for a study on the impact of TTIP – Mr Minister, I guess you will also know these signatures; they have been handed over to President Leitel – then one should take seriously this and the concerns and fears of small and medium-sized enterprises so that one can find a proper decision there too and, above all, do not cancel our national laws and standards, otherwise we will get so far that we have arrived in the fight of the giants: It's eating and getting eaten. The latest example, in turn, is the target-point plea in today's "standard". [[Keeping the corresponding article in height]] 2 500 workers and 230 locations are affected. I think that's very essential... [[Abg. Rädler: That's where the government can do something for it, right?]] – Yes, Mr Rädler, you, as mayor, may be affected because you have a new empty hall that does not bring a municipal tax. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wheeler.]] We should consider the economic system fundamentally. I can point to McKinsey's study, Mr. Minister, where the author points out that we need much better coordination and cooperation between economy and politics. We have only in this wonderful Austria – this location we must not bad talk about, and therefore a warm thanks to all who are willing to come in – a potential of €35 billion: 35 billion € in the area of smart factory – focus: Industrie 4.0 – in the field of well-kept ageing, in the field of new energies and especially, of course, in the main area, which accompanies us from birth to cradle: in the field of health. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I think that's what I'm talking about. The area is very important, ranging from important issues of movement to nutrition and much more! These are huge opportunities, and I think that, like the hotel industry and gastronomy, Mr. Minister, that would be the chance to put this fair economic model in place for the whole of Europe and for the world economy as a model model. But then we have to live that, then we have to do it. I think this is a huge chance for Austria to get away from the previous rankings, where we are constantly falling back – that has already been mentioned. In the meantime, Mrs Lichtenecker, we are unfortunately already in the 14th place, and that is why we must make every effort and do everything we can to get back on the front lines. That is why I put forward two motions for resolutions. The first request comes from Mr Lugar and me and has the following subject: ‘Austria’s economic location: Release Plan for Entrepreneurs’. This concerns topics ranging from the trade order to profit participation models for employees, and it addresses this total tax burden of 40.6 percent across Europe and from 51.7 percent in Austria, which is adjusted as otherwise we have a location disadvantage. The application is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Wöginger: That's what we just did!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] I also make a second request, whose subject, as I think, was an election promise – we think back to the National Council election campaign! –: Motion for a resolution by Mrs Ing. Robert Lugar, colleagues on “Stop the criminalisation of economic operators and business operators – savings in the public sector to counter-finance tax reform” The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Government is invited to counter-finance the forthcoming tax reform by means of administrative savings and/or savings. Saves in the public sector (especially in billions of funding) and abandons the planned criminalisation of the economic operators and traders by extending the registers’ obligation.’ We ask you to support the requests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e45573	The motions for resolutions tabled by Mr Steinbichler are sufficiently supported and are under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e45671	Next speaker: Mrs Ecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e45692	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate spectators on the galleries! As a social democratic spokesperson for small and medium-sized enterprises, I welcome the present budget for 2016, but I would like to thank you before, Mr Minister, for the new standards strategy. I too have worked intensively to reduce the flood of standards and I am glad that government cooperation has worked so well there – even though it took a little while. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In the run-up to this, many companies have expressed their concerns to me, and many people will be pleased that the standardisation process will now be more transparent. Especially in the construction industry, the standards strategy will be improved, and there are certainly many people looking forward to it. I would also like to join the 2016 budget as follows: Next year, €50 million – which is €20 million more than 2015 – will be available for residential construction. ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This measure is certainly a great success for the Austrian economy, on the one hand, the creation of housing especially for young families and young adults is a success, on the other hand, the housing package is part of the offensive package for growth and employment. Especially in economically difficult times, it is a command of the hour that the state makes targeted investments to boost the economy. Residences and apartments must be manageable for the people, that is a command of the first hour, and I am pleased that this draft budget takes account of this. Together with the tax reform, this will be a great success for us and will bring more money to people in the stock exchange. That is why I also welcome the input tax rate reduced from 36,5 percent to 25 percent, because this money benefits our internal economy permanently, and that is what I call it. – Here is a very clear yes from my side for this budget draft! I would like to oppose a very clear no to the critics who now believe that companies are being suspected, because this argument is simply wrong. The fair companies – and this is certainly the majority in our country – are the same winners of the tax reform. They no longer have to fight against a few black sheep, which have given them an unreasonable advantage. Overall, with the Federal Estimate, there is a package that will strengthen the economy in our country, and therefore a clear yes to the balanced budget 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e45744	Mr Themessl is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e45772	Mr President. Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister for Economic Affairs. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Matznetter said here that the Minister of Finance pointed out early in the Chamber that our economy is still at the forefront. – Mr Matznetter, it is important to define how you are “in the tip”! If you mean the top 20, you might be right. I understand under top or at least top 3, and there we are not represented in any of the international rankings. [[Abg. Matznetter: 170 states in the world!]] On the contrary: We fall back from year to year. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Matznetter.]] – Mr Matznetter, we fall back from year to year in all rankings! [[Abg. Matznetter: 170 states!]] Ladies and gentlemen, in this budget debate, we are discussing here for three days what we and where we spend billions of euros – partly meaningful, partly less meaningful. [[Abg. Wheeler: It's all bad!]] Everything you spend, if you then take the decisions, must first be achieved – that is why we are now on the issue of economics. [[Abg. Wheeler:... what positive!]] My thanks do not apply here to the Deputy Chancellor, the Federal Minister, nor to you, my thanks go from here once again to all entrepreneurs in the country, with all the employees who, despite poor conditions of the environment, despite bureaucratic obstacles, are constantly able to adapt to the changing conditions of the economy, to master it and to ensure that you spend once again with today's decision – partly thoughtless, partly unreasonable. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Rädler: Finally something positive!]] – So much for the economy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Federal Minister, it's not all as bad as you always think it may be. But what surprises me is a few things you're putting in your budget. I am not at all concerned with the budget itself, because the budget for the economy does not produce so much. However, what I notice is that certain objectives – Mr Kassinger has avoided addressing them here – are the objectives of action. When these goals were introduced two years ago, I was actually positive and supported this, because I thought it makes sense to spend money that you also explain what you spend it for. But if you look at these objectives, you have to say: They're not worth anything, they're no-na formulations. You write here: “Strengthening the competitiveness of the Austrian economy with a focus on SMEs and tourism companies”. - No, who doesn't want that? However, as is to be achieved with such a cut budget, this has been put forward once. I can't help but notice what I'm saying. You have regained your goals with regard to certain objectives in recent years. This surprises me in so far as you expect a higher economic growth in budgeting. This year, they expect an economic growth of 1.4 percent – this year it will be 0.7 or 0.6 percent, or possibly even less – and yet you will return some goals. I don't think that's what you need to explain to me. Then I tell you, however, that, regardless of the budgetary equipment in this area, it would take a lot of reforms – which you promise for years, but do not implement – that do not cost money. In addition, I remember a statement by the recently deceased former German Chancellor Helmut Schmidt, who said: “Not all reforms cost money, and not everything that costs money is therefore already a reform.” [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr. Federal Minister, I would ask you, and here you have our support at all times, to finally undertake reforms that do not cost any money, but that significantly improve the framework conditions for Austrian entrepreneurs. These are, as usual, the well-known arguments of recent years, which have still not changed: Facilitating business transfers, finally defusing the trade order, finally putting an end to the EU's regulatory and regulatory flood, finally reducing the bureaucracy and not building it up – see register regulation – and not generally putting all entrepreneurs in that country under a general suspicion. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e45914	Now Mr. Vice-Chancellor Dr. Mitterlehner is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e45954	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It will not have been hidden to you that since 2009 we have had an economic crisis that has lasted over six years, and that it has been difficult for all states in Europe, for Europe as a whole, to achieve a further growth dynamic. This is all the more true of Austria than in 2009 – no one can remember any more – a tax reform has also been implemented, which has helped in the short term but has not been replayed in the final effect, which leads to economic development. So what we spent there didn't come back in part. We are now in the situation that we have actually picked up very well. We are likely to be at an economic growth rate of around 1.4 percent or 1.5 percent next year, as forecast and discussed yesterday and even today. The IMF has us 1.5 percent, forecast by WIFO 1.4 percent. This is exactly where the European average is at the moment, what is going on next year. Many expected that we would have a bigger delle and would be further behind, but we actually picked up very well. Now to the situation description: I also know the rankings and other surveys, but in the final effect this is a facet of the whole development – the other facets are the data and the estimates. I do not fully understand that everyone has such great pleasure in describing the bad mood not only, but in forcing it. There is something like a self-fulfilling prophecy. If you compare Germany and Austria, you see, we are approaching Germany in the next year's growth. Germany does not attract us, but we approach Germany. German politicians and entrepreneurs constantly ask me: Why do you have such a negative mood in Austria? I would say that something in this direction is also in our own responsibility. You can turn the mood relatively easily when you look at the facts, because, Mr Themessl, we have a very good development in many areas, not despite the economic framework conditions. I can only briefly outline a few of these conditions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Darmann.]] The research premium has been addressed, we have 12 percent. Mrs Lichtenecker – she is not in the hall right now – we will also evaluate this accordingly – the data is only available since 2012, it will be finished next year – as the effect is. In any case, the effect of the research premium is so great that each year we have branches of German companies, because the research site Austria is positively estimated, and we have a record value every year. That is, if German and Italian companies come to us due to the good conditions, then they will probably have looked at this well and can appreciate it well. – This is a fact once. A second one: We are going to have further relapses in the red tape, no doubt there and there, but we have also made improvements in the right direction. I mean the following: We have exempt 2 800 companies each year from the plant permit, with 12 000 plant permits for start-ups at all. That is, I would say, a first very concrete positive approach. We have cleared out a lot of statistical data for small and medium-sized enterprises. We have also favoured the addition of researchers, which also leads to better disposal possibilities; this is exactly what is going on in the previously mentioned point of settlement. We abolished four officers. Everyone says four out of 16 isn't much. I think it is necessary to see that gold plating is prevented, everything that is regulated too much in this area; we have taken a lot away. Yesterday, the additional wage costs were addressed – they were lowered – and there too there is a sort of split opinion in the house. Everyone says: Pay-by-cost reduction, wonderful!, and next moment: But the family allowances must not be reduced! – Neither will they, but you have held the discussion. Separate the one from the other, and think about what 1 billion € in additional wage costs means! Do you know what the gross is? – This is an annual wage increase that saves the economy. All in all, I see this as a very good and encouraging basis. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Believe me, I know that the tax reform will not be praised subjectively – everyone is looking for, four million have informed themselves, which is the positive impact on their own income situation; everyone says it was the other. However, the macroeconomic impact of the tax reform will be positive. Christmas business will go well, consumption will rise, and investment will increase. And if investment increases, you can expect that next year, including growth and jobs, we will have positive effects, unless Mr Schellhorn, as the guardian of entrepreneurial wisdom, recommends that your colleagues in the Hotelier Association [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] It's all so bad, terrible, please don't invest! I'd say that's exactly that self-fulfilling prophecy we don't need. Because, for example, the strategy for tourism has been addressed: We have developed these together, and of course, what is in them is right, but we need to differentiate. Regrettably, because tax reform needs to be halted, we have a restriction on what the depreciation is going to do and an extension. But do you know what amortizations this concerns? – Those for buildings! There is no limit for moving goods and even for renovation cases such as bathrooms and others. So don't throw everything into a pot! If the one who praises in his own publication that his building has been standing for 300 years, complains most, I say: He'll hopefully have written that off in the 300 years! I would also ask you not to confuse one with another and perhaps to evaluate it uniformly. I give colleagues Themessl law: Entrepreneurships with their employees are crucial in the final effect. The framework conditions must be in some way appropriate. But look at the framework conditions in tourism: Every year, since I was Minister of Economic Affairs, we had a record increase in the number of nights, except for an exception. I know your argument, you say: Yes, but profits have not increased to the extent! – Egon Smeral says that this year sales development will also look appropriate. What I don't understand at all is that everyone is already complaining about what has not yet happened. Honestly, I can pass on 3 percent VAT – this is unpleasant, I know – if I am not a price leader, to the customer, especially if Austria's advertising efforts increase €4 million in the budget, and even if the board imposes €1 million on us to win new guests. I just think that's the way it is: If everyone sticks to the fact that they all participate in the distribution of sales tax by 3 percentage points, it will not be a problem to succeed. Compare this with Switzerland: The Swiss, when the franc was no longer tied to the euro, had total disadvantages of 20 percent from one day to the other – they rightly cried. But who benefited? – We, we in Vorarlberg, we in Tirol! I would say that you should not always mix one with another, a little more optimism would use it too! This also applies to the budget. Let's look at our budget: They are perfectly right, in my area there are cuts inside, partly explainable and also necessary reductions. You always complain – you disagree with yourself in part – and you ask: Where is the transparency database, the funding database, why is it not finished? We don't need double promotions, we need to get away with the promotions! Now, in the business field, we are moving away from the promotions – I believe: reason. The AWS implements grants on the basis of guarantees. Whether this is right or wrong, you can measure it: If the credit volume is to decline or not to decrease, will the investment become less or more? This will show up next year. I assume that, despite this changeover – and also in the budget area, we will have cuts – we will have no disadvantage. - Point one. Point two: What hurts in the first moment is of course the reduction when we return to the promotions for thermal renovation. There too we have tried, however, to build up an appropriate infrastructure there, the infrastructure is now heading towards the building savings banks and others and the advertising methodology. I do not want to miss this and do not have to rebuild it again, so we have received the system, but we have seen that the construction industry – with this housing initiative – has no job losses. We will therefore see, also in the construction sector and in the construction sector, whether that is true, what we suggest here as thesis, or is wrong. I claim it's right, and it will also be true that the BIG's ARE, a subsidiary of BIG, which has already started planning and implementing the BIG, with its 2 billion € in return for the housing market. We will also need this in connection with other issues. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Moser.]] Therefore: What is at present at risk is in the long-term effect with less budget use exactly what you are always demanding, not other than economic conditions! [[Abg. Moser: Two years...!]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I believe that in the final effect, all of us, with cuts of around €500 million in support, are contributing to the financing of the tax reform. But what is that? – In the final effect exactly what you always say: It is not for us to decide what is good for the citizen, but for the citizen to increase his expenditure, it is intended to increase his disposition capacity. I assume if you continue to spread good mood, he'll do it. So there's still a lot to be done. [[Abg. Wheeler: re-supply!]] Now I come to another point, which seems to me relatively good, that is international economic development, which is our export success. You can actually measure this: If we are competitive or not, are we powerful, are our logistics true, is our service orientation true or not? We have corresponding increases every year, i.e. we must somehow be able to keep up with the prices. Mr Aiger – many of them in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs – said that this year we increased 2.7 percent. This is a little less, but not because of the power weakness of the domestic economy, but because, of course, the Russia-Ukraine crisis and others – especially in the Black Sea region, where a corresponding increase rate would have been expected – have not had a positive effect. Mr Kassinger, I agree with you, I am in favour of it if it is possible: Minsk process, sanctions away, but this is a Community process of the EU. In the tourism sector, we have even more than balanced the delle that arose from the fact that Russian guests did not come. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Darmann.]] Now comes the assessment for next year: We expect 4.7 percent of the export increase. – I’m sorry, that’s proof that the economy is stronger than everyone wants to talk about. So that you don't have the impression that the whole thing is a wonderful description of the state of the situation: The state of the situation, when you look at all the rankings, always has to do with one thing: that we have to make reforms there and there. In the case of venture capital financing, we have done it, but most of the time it is substantial reforms that we have undertaken in relation to the labour market, for example, but also in the pension sector not only but also in some cases already in implementation. In the labour market field, I already have to give partial permission to colleagues from the Socialist Group. If one now polls on the factor that a lot of what happens in Austria's labour law is established, then someone from abroad evaluates negatively because he says that the freedom of disposition of wage fixing is not guaranteed. But in Austria we know: That was a location factor. In international comparison, it has not brought us back, but forward. This is the Austrian system of social security and collective bargaining when it comes to collective treaty negotiations. Everything has two pages, not everyone always understands us internationally well. You know the background. In the field of wage determination, I believe that we are in the lead position in the overall ranking. We also have some development needs there. All in all, however, I see this as a positive system component. The other area, which is also being dealt with here today, is research. It is remarkable what we have developed here with the joint programs of the Christian Doppler labs; also what the whole COMET programs with the exchange of scientists on the one hand and entrepreneurs on the other. It works. This has developed very well. We also have the right equipment in budget terms, there are no cuts. I even think that with the establishment of the transfer centres, which Karlheinz Dägenle and I started at the time, we have a classification that we will also have more spin-offs at the universities. If you look at MIT or Harvard, there are a lot more business start-ups there from students. Should not be so, it has already changed that you think more entrepreneurially before you start your studies, and if you stop, you have a different attitude and want to become something else. That's just turning in the right direction. Ladies and gentlemen! Summary: I would also have liked to have the budget in the area of thermal renovation, as well as in the pipeline construction for heat and cooling lines. But in the final effect it is painful because we take the right countermeasures in the housing. Otherwise, the changeover is: Grants away, promotions in the area, and guarantees and liabilities, given the interest rate situation, are just the right thing. You can measure it. That's what I'm saying to you: If anything does not happen again worldwide, you can see it next year's economic development. I hope that if everyone gets along a little bit, they'll be just like that, maybe even better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e46063	Mr Obernosterer has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e46084	Mr President. Mr Vice-Chancellor, Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and at home in front of the TV screens! I do not think that much has been added to what has now been said by the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs and Deputy Chancellors. I would like to deal solely with the issue of tourism, because, as you know, I know the problem of tourism. We have at home a inn and also a hotel, in the small business area and also in the middle commercial area. As I see you standing up here right now, Mr. Schellhorn: When you came to the high house two years ago, I was very happy and thought there was a practitioner coming. We are going to have something to do with tourism. But I'm actually very disappointed, not because you as a practitioner may have become worse – I can't judge that – but here in the House you got away from the policy and are just opposition politicians. That's a shame, as I said, for our chance of tourism. What are the facts? The Minister for Economic Affairs has referred to it. I also know it as a practitioner. We know we're at the border tax level. We know that we have also reached of the conditions, of bureaucracy, of the regulations and of the controls at the border. This has developed in the last 30 years. But it must also be said that the Minister of Economic Affairs has dealt with this problem very clearly, particularly as regards tourism. If we decide to cut extra wage costs by up to a billion a year, we also know that tourism, which is so service-intensive, really benefits us very much and that we can calculate what this brings us in the year. This brings us about, as the Federal Minister has said, a wage increase in the year of savings. We also know that de-bureaucratisation has been approached, that it will be reforested, which is no longer necessary for it to be deleted. The same applies to controls. We know that this is on the way and that it is also being done. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] [[Abg. Schellhorn: What now?]] In the past it was so that it was always first punished and then first said what you actually did wrong. What's very important: In the future, consultation will come first. If you don't hear that this is done well, then the punishment will come. I think this is very important for us in practice. As regards the financial resources for tourism, Austria's advertising, the budget has not been reduced. It was increased by €4 million for the special action Internationalization alone by the federal government. That's a plus of 16 percent. To say that nothing happened is simply not right. One should also address these positive signs and also say that this is okay at a time when almost everywhere is shortened. We know that, in part, we have financing problems in our sector, because loans need to be more and more secured. The EHT has not been reduced either, in the case of grants and in the case of liabilities, the amounts have been increased. There is no financial gap either, the liabilities are partly not fully exhausted. In total we know that Austria is a tourist country. Thanks be to God we have written in recent years plus numbers again during this difficult time. We know that the government, with our help and our Federal Minister for Economic Affairs, has made debureaucratisation its task, because entrepreneurs in part hurt the bureaucracy more than sometimes the tax burdens that can be borne everywhere. [[Abg. Hauser: Where is it?]] [[Abg. Loacker: How bureaucratic...?]] If, in the case of bureaucracy, we simply unravel the regulations and adapt them to today's spirit of time, then, I believe, tourism and the economy as a whole are the most served. As I said, Criticizing is part of showing that it is not a question at all. That's what I do. But one should also clearly show what is being done in the positive sense. Here, I think, we are on a good path so that Austria remains world champions of tourism in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e46169	Mr Köchl is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e46191	Dear ladies! Dear gentlemen! Appreciated spectators at the visitor gallery! In my opinion, the budget, as it is presented here, has little clarity and gives me the impression that everything is possible, but nothing is concrete. Minister for Economic Affairs! Now I'm right, it's about spreading good mood and ensuring good mood. That's what Ludwig Erhard said: 50 percent is mood and 50 percent are figures and facts. - That's right. But here we would have a simple approach, as well as the opposition could spread good mood, if you simply implement the good proposals that come from all the opposition parties again and again. That's where the opposition would be a pleasure. Austria would benefit from this, as everyone could create a good mood together and achieve something for the economy. I would also like to say that. Otherwise, of course, the usual game comes out. They talk about the budget beautifully, the opposition will naturally see it a little more critical and speak against it, and Mr and Mrs Österreicher will object to the TV screen and also to the visitor gallery. We don't want to. Mr Haubner has just said – I have written it down – that we are on the right track as regards business start-ups, and the business start-ups are important because there must also be someone who is creating new jobs and who is finally paying more into the budget. So if Mr Haubner says that we are on the right track, please look at the founding statistics. The founding statistics show 28 656 foundings in 2013 and only more than 28 490 in 2014. I assume that you can count, that is, we had fewer business start-ups in 2014 than in the year before. Actually, it is going in the wrong direction and not the way it was claimed here by the ÖVP-College that we are on the right path. When it comes to establishing more founding culture, when it comes to spreading business and good mood, I would like to give you a few points, eight points very specific and short, which is crucial for innovation culture in the company. But you can now turn this over to the Federal Government too. It's important to have structures. Structures are important for innovation, where one does not act clearly in narrow hierarchies, but is acting across borders. Take a look at this between black and red! Everyone has casteled his area and gets public. So the structures in this government are not suitable for innovation culture. Management culture is important – leadership that you allow new ideas, promote new things, support new ones. If you look at the leadership in Austria now, when you look at how chancellors and vice chancellors act, keyword hypo disaster, keyword homelessness in Traiskirchen, keyword behind company start-ups, then you can question a few things. Keywords Resources – Resources needed for innovation culture. Which resources, time and money, do you provide? We have the impression that it will be saved exactly in the wrong places. In education, too, it is saved, even at the universities. It often remains empty words; when it comes to money to suppress it, it fails to do so. Team, teamwork. – Well, teamwork between red and black?- Oh, my God! What else am I supposed to say? Allow diversity and cross-thinking, that doesn't work at all. At the SPÖ, everything is pretty similar, with the ÖVP it is quite clear which clientele is represented. There's no teamwork at all. This is called coalition, but it is actually a compromise, often a lazy compromise. [[Abg. Lopatka: You have no idea!]] Creating incentive systems to reward creativity, to promote innovation culture – I do not see that in the current Federal Government, nor do I see it in relation to the opposition. For example, an incentive for the opposition to create a good mood would be to simply implement the one or other idea, which really comes from all parties again and again, and not to vote by 50.5%. You will have to get used to this majority of 50.5 percent in at least three years. Communication, achieve something together. – I don’t have this impression at the moment. There are rather two or three gentlemen agreeing somewhere and then putting Parliament before the final facts. There is no communication where everyone can participate in the design of ideas in the Republic. Or: Risk culture. – I also have the impression of full-casuality and just don’t change anything, it all has to stay the way it has always been. The atmosphere that is spreading here is to be taken into account. An atmosphere of departure instead of frustration, an atmosphere of passion for ideas, I don't see at all. This is rather a government that creates suffering, but not a government that acts with passion. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e46244	Next, Mr Magistrate. Underrunner to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e46265	In the present draft budget 2016, the relevant space is dedicated to the Austrian hanging sign, tourism. With this draft budget, we will continue the success story of tourism. Mr President. Federal Minister! Tourism in Austria builds mainly on four pillars. These are nature and culture. These are the work and the training. That's the strategy. And these are the economic conditions. To nature and culture: Our nature, our mountains and attractions are not just sales argument, they are Austria's image, heritage and future. Green alpine meadows, however, arise only through the tireless work of our mountain farmers. As long as large farmers earn six times as long as 7 percent of farms are locked annually, we need action here for so long. Work and training: Without hard work and training, there would be nothing in Austria's tourism. We're building on quality. I would be very much at the fact that tourism apprenticeship training would also be improved by the approximation of vocational schooling. The strategy: The Austrian tourism strategy is unique and highly appreciated, especially the Austrian advertising. As a result, I am particularly pleased that for 2016 the budget has increased the budget budget. However, scientific research and support from the tourism bank also contribute significantly to this success. On the fourth and most important point, namely the economic environment: There is a lot of light, but of course also shadows. I am pleased that we have implemented a tax reform which will boost and strengthen internal consumption. In 2016, for example, an additional €300 million is budgeted for broadband development, i.e. broadband Internet for all, especially for rural areas. For an industry such as tourism, which places so much on the Internet and online marketing, this is not an underestimable competitive factor. This makes the 2016 budget an excellent contribution to the support of rural tourism – an important aspect, because only tourism can claim to be successful in the alpine environment. There are over 200 000 crisis-proof jobs, including in less-favoured areas. No other industry can claim that otherwise. But above all, I also see the need for action; in particular, we must all be clear that, as is now being co-imported in the media, the high numbers of nocturnal numbers must not be fooled over the declining value creation. In the sense of the government programme, I would like to see a further reduction in bureaucracy. There are already initial approaches, such as the aggregation of responsibilities. But a very essential point will be that we will achieve extreme simplification in the administration, in the administrative effort. Austrian tourism is very well positioned. The 2016 budget has also set important accents here. Especially when we decide on further reforms, tourism in Austria will remain what it is, world class. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e46323	Now comes Mr Mag. Alm to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e46345	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! Economics is sometimes seen here by some as a parallel world, but it is the area where value creation happens, it is the area where the money so to speak comes in. Is there, then, any possibility of saving something in the economic resort at all? Yes, there are, but some of these answers would insecure the people, because they are particularly affected by promotions, and if promotions are affected, that will cause some fear. Payments are more than 10 percent lower compared to the previous year. A meaningful reduction in funding is generally also targeted from our point of view. We are also of the same opinion. Austria is already in the lead in the field of funding. Nevertheless, it is necessary to keep an overview and evaluate which promotions are then deleted and which are not. This overview is not yet available in a sufficiently good form from our point of view. The aws funding will be drastically reduced and we suspect that the grants will already be used as a cut in the funding of the founders. This is exactly the area that is not the right one, because we need more and no less self-employed people. The tax rate and bureaucracy are already forcing some farms on the chicken to lock. If, as it were, we are still making the start of entrepreneurship more difficult, then this is not really in the concept. Of course, the budget provides for measures to be taken in the right direction. Very often, however, these are only textual measures which are not stored with figures. There is talk of investment and innovation promotion, of access and of facilitating financing for small and medium-sized enterprises, of forcing business start-ups. The question is: Do you have to solve these things with promotions at all? Is this really the most useful way to take money away from the company, collect money, replay it by bureaucratic means with friction losses relatively arbitrary in the form of subsidies to companies, or could we not consider models with which we can incentivise private investment in companies? An important measure for this has already been implemented unanimously last year, which was the Alternative Financing Act, which allows crowd investment to an amount of up to €5 million. We know it works. How well it will work, we will see in the next few weeks. There is an example here that is currently on the market, because through a crowd investment platform, Rapid Vienna is getting a promotion. They have already set the record in the crowd investment in Austria in the first few hours. That's going on for three months, and we'll see at what height this is moving. Austria Vienna would not necessarily be so appropriate in this area, but this has nothing to do with the Alternative Financing Act. In the future, however, we should not necessarily limit this instrument to small enterprises, as is now foreseen by law. We have tabled an own-initiative proposal that this can be extended to all companies that will soon be part of the Economic Committee. Nevertheless, it is generally useful to focus on small companies, on start-ups, on new start-ups. This is the area where innovation is born, and this innovation leads to growth. Start-ups scale, start-ups scale in the area of revenue, start-ups scale in the area of employees. However, it is necessary to bring the products and services of these start-ups to market maturity very quickly, and this market maturity in turn requires funding to be provided to these companies so that this market maturity can also be quickly realized. In Austria too, there is sufficient private venture capital available, which can be brought to these companies, through venture capital funds, through business angels, through pri- Vessel investors. We only need to create attractive framework conditions to raise this potential. In Austrian tax law, there have already been tax advantages for the provision of capital to companies, such as the special deduction for young shares. And technically, it would be relatively easy to set up such a special deduction for young companies for private individuals. In this context, we have the idea of a real-economy investment exemption – we imagine a total of €100 000 a year – and this allowance would make it easier for potential investors to make a positive investment decision. I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] More important than that, however, is – and this has already been mentioned by Mr Köchl – a mentality change. I would like to read to you a quote from Peter Thiel, an investor: “In the past, the government was able to develop complex solutions to issues such as atomic disarmament or space travel. Today, after 40 years of sluggish inconsistency, the government offers mainly insurance. Our answer to the great questions of time are health insurance, social security and a dizzying variety of other support services." We should rather understand the change that is taking place as an opportunity. We should understand things like sharing economy, start-ups, innovation as an opportunity and create the conditions for us to benefit from this change.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e46448	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Alm is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e46509	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Schools. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e46531	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Economics is the network that bears prosperity in Austria. And agriculture connects many knots, fixed knots into this net. We know that farmers make a big contribution. Although their number is unfortunately dwindling, they are becoming increasingly important. They are becoming more and more important because they have to take on new tasks. An example: There are 600 farms today dedicated to helping people and providing social services to people who are particularly concerned. We know that everyone benefits from agriculture, it is only often not so conscious. What is the alm for the farmer is for you today the ski slopes. What for the farmer of the farm is then perhaps the grain tip or the schnitzel for you. What the meadow is for the farmer is for you then the cheese or the cereal or maybe also the steak. [[Abg. Kogler: What previously was the animal factory is afterwards also a piece!]] What is for the farmer of the forest is for you to rest, is for you the groundwater protection or even the water retention, is for you protection from munition. For you, however, the forest is also the wood for furniture, the raw material for the paper industry. It is also, of course, the heat we are getting to an ever-increasing extent from the country. Remember that 530 000 jobs lie between farmers and your enjoyment, your joy or what you can consume from agriculture. 530 000 people work in the economy before or after agriculture and live on the fact that they have products they can offer you. Ladies and gentlemen! The paper industry alone accounts for €3.8 billion in sales in Austria, has 8,000 employees, produces two and a half times as much paper as we need in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! Farmers invest €1 800 million. We export a total of 9.75 billion goods from this sector. We're good on our way! However, it becomes more difficult. The trade chains are becoming more powerful. The target point is going into pleite, the concentration among the others is getting bigger. The Federal Competition Authority has protested, REWE has held accountable. REWE has made a pure table, paid €20 million and will make an effort. Saving has gone into protest, shows no regret, has received 30 million € punishment. The procedure is not yet over. But our salesmen already know how hard the business has become, because they're looking for the money again. Ladies and gentlemen, important for the future is the importance of the region, important for the future is training in agriculture, important for the future, the origin must be recognizable. We have many schools, we have universities, we have higher educational institutions. We need a vocational college. But what we really need, that is the enthusiasm of the boys, and it will come when you pay respect to agriculture, respect and recognition for our farmers, who deliver their achievements at a difficult time, but thus enable the general economy to prosper. - Thank you to our farmers.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e46567	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Höbart. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e46589	Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! Budget subgroup 40: Economy. As expected, there is nothing great to report here either. Mr Matznetter – but here he came back, just here – I thought you were back in the Chamber of Commerce, because you had previously been so enthusiastic about the great mood in the economy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] They may have you in the Chamber of Commerce, Mr Vice-President, but there has been no good mood outside the economy for a long time. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Vice-President of the Chamber of Commerce, you should sit in your vans and leave businesses once! [[Abg. Matznetter: Do me!]] I was only met yesterday with a managing director and owner from the industrial center Niederösterreich Süd. I have to tell you – and this is the unanimous opinion in the economy – the mood is very, very bad and depressed. And that has a background. It is not the evil liberals who always want to make things worse, but it is the government policy of recent years that has led and led to this bad mood in the economy. You have to say this straight and clear. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you talk to entrepreneurs, you see, they have the feeling that they are being squeezed out like a lemon. The last sales are allowed to tax them enormously, they are allowed to pay the salaries the last month. They must pay the additional wage costs. The social security schemes are already on your toes a few hours later, if you may have some liquidity problems. – These are the real problems of the economy, and not what the Chamber of Commerce and the Vice-Presidents are going to do here. The tax burden is far too high. We know that despite the tax reform that will come next year, the tax and tax rate will still be around 43 percent. She's still way too high in the end. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] I have to put an accusation to the so-called economic party ÖVP: Unfortunately, you are constantly being put on the table by your government partner, to whom you can only put economic hostility. Come on, let's get on with it. Peter Haubner, look at the heart! The so-called additional wage reduction, I think, last or last year, was not even a drop on the hot stone. The mood is just very, very bad. And entrepreneurs sometimes constantly say that in fact hardly any more motivation prevails, innovatively and truly with Elan and with motivation to approach entrepreneurship. There are no reforms. The tax system has long been simplified. In fact, corporate taxation too is too high. Once again, when the SPÖ makes something of so-called rich taxes, I ask: What's that supposed to mean? – That foundations are taxed higher? Do you know what is usually parked in foundations? – Corporate equity. Do you really want to make sure, ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy, that more companies, for example, are looking for their way abroad? Test I would like to ask you to think about it or to live sustainable economic policy in this country! Yeah, millionaires, that's always the same leader. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Matznetter:... millionaires!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] You've heard that for a long time. Belonged You may also be in favour, Mr Vice-Chancellor – no, the Vice-Chancellor is behind me – Mr Vice-President? [[Abg. Kogler: Which SME is in a foundation?]] Let's just take two points of the budget, which ultimately... [[Interference of Vice-Chancellor Mitterlehner.]] . I'd rather you as Vice Chancellor anyway, I'd say that quite openly. Economic promotion is restricted, i.e. around a quarter of the population. One goes down from 150 million to 110 million in terms of economic promotion. [[Abg. Jarolim: Please make an orderly speech!]] The thermal renovation will continue to be curbed, from 45 million to 13.5 million. And all of this ultimately leads to the bad mood in the economy, which has the result that we have over 400 000 unemployed today, of which 120 000 foreigners. This is what our Secretary-General Kickl said yesterday. On the other hand, we have only around 40 000 jobs. I am already excited how we want to integrate the 100 000 asylum seekers who have come this year, as well as social democracy. These are absurdities. That's no different to describe. The FPÖ would have wanted a much stronger economic incentive package for the budget, but unfortunately only lukewarm air came out. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear Federal Government! But you can show your social heart right before Christmas, namely in connection with 2 500 quit target workers. I would like to make the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e46736	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Höbart is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e46790	Next speaker: Mr Wimmer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e46812	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Höbart, you couldn't have gotten it to the point. You have now presented yourself as billionaires' representatives. [[Abg. Höbart: billionaires representative?]] And that's the real reason why you're against inheritance taxes why you're dealing with property-related taxes. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But maybe on the subject itself. Mr Federal Minister, I am grateful to you for presenting Austria as a very decent, good and strong economic location. Policy contributes to this through intelligent measures. It was very good to implement the tax reform. Very good was the implementation of the additional wage reduction and, above all, investment in housing and infrastructure, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Not so good is the discussion about our current pension system, which is currently being conducted. The fact is that the retirement age is rising and that expenditure is lower than it is recorded in the budget. [[Abg. Loacker: Get up!]] This means that the reforms that the Federal Government is now implementing are effective. And here I read, ladies and gentlemen, about a new study by EcoAustria, some sub-organisation or an institute of industrial associations, at least financed by industry, on the subject of federal pension contributions. If you look at this study a little closer, you have to say that it is absolutely unscrupulous what the ladies and gentlemen give of themselves. You have brought an example. A 40-year-old worker is sent to I-pension. So we know if you can go to I-pension at 40 years of age, then you have your head in your hand when you go to the official's office, otherwise you don't usually have a chance to get an I-pension. You really have to be sick. It is assumed by this 40-year-old I-pensionist that she will have a reference period of the I-pension of 39 years – that is, the seriously ill woman becomes 79 years old – and then comes to the conclusion: “Although” – and now I quote – “the level of disability pension performance is very low, the insured person’s own contributions are not sufficient in the event of an item.” - No, no, no, no, no, If you are 20 years old and are 40 years old in retirement, this is a matter of course. And then it comes to the conclusion: “A substantial subsidy of tax resources is required.” Ladies and gentlemen, to publish such a stupid thing, as a lot of self-confidence belongs to it. [[Abg. Gisela Worm: And community!]] But obviously the Institute is not too sorry for that. And if you're talking about pension subsidies, you have to be honest. We're on it, too. And here it is that the ASVG-pensionists need the lowest grant, that is, only 20 percent, and 80 percent are financed by themselves. This means that there is an average grant of around €300 per month. [[Abg. Loacker: That's not true!]] With the self-employed, Mr Loacker, it is a little stupid. The state needs to catch up a little more, namely 50 percent, i.e. 750 € per pension. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] And it's not that easy with the farmers either. This means that the state has to pay €4 for each euro paid. But, ladies and gentlemen, this is solidarity, which has to do with the system of solidarity. And that's what we have to stand for. We stand by it, ladies and gentlemen, very much. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Loacker: Understand instead of just standing!]] Let me – my folder and my folderist will forgive me if I add one more minute here – talk to the real naughtiness that is currently at the company's destination. That is what I am saying now, ladies and gentlemen, because Mr Höbart has tabled a motion for a resolution here. Within an afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, and without the involvement of the social partners and the works council – who knew nothing at all – 2 700 people will be sent home, which before Christmas, a great Christmas gift! Some here in the House speak very often of the failure of the state, of the failure of the administration. It is quite clear that this bankruptcy or insolvency is a very clear failure, ladies and gentlemen. And in the future we must also talk about more democracy in businesses, because such a thing should be a teaching for us. Such a thing should no longer happen in this form and with this approach! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The sufferers are the colleagues who are now being sent home before Christmas. At the request of the FPÖ in the motion for a resolution that the Federal Government should advance, the Christmas money should now be paid out, as the Federal Government should strive: I've already been in the news today at 6 o'clock in the In the early days our Federal Minister, Hundstorfer, said that everything was in the way. [[Abg. Höbart: Then you can agree! Thank you!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I also know that the claims for special payments will be filed with the insolvency payment fund. We hope that we can do all this for our colleagues before Christmas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e46948	Next, Mr Magistrate. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e46984	Federal Minister! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! The positive thing that we are always making has actually been said at the general debate. We have mentioned the Austria’s Leading Companies and also that many, mainly small and medium-sized enterprises, still see many opportunities in Austria – and now we can argue: despite or because of economic policy. I'm not gonna stop for long. You will imagine why I am speaking at this point. It is actually about the interests of small and medium-sized enterprises and SMEs in the context of the so-called trade agreements. And there is a lot of decisive about us in 2016, so I do not think that the reference to the 2016 budget is completely missing, especially since in the House – and we will change that from today on – relatively little is discussed about the matter TTIP and CETA, in particular on the aspects of so-called investor protection, Vulgo complainant privileges for corporations, and, above all, transparency issues. All of us should be interested in this, and I'll deal with it right away. First: The fact that it is becoming more critical for SMEs is now claiming it itself. It has already set up a German initiative of the medium-sized economy years ago, which is massively opposed to this alleged or alleged investment protection because there is a wrong situation here. In the meantime, there are also initiatives in Austria by small and medium-sized enterprises, which not only show great scepticism, but also express themselves negatively for the reason. But now on the question of transparency: As far as Malmström is concerned, there has actually been a very peculiar sequence of events after she has become a Commissioner. Previously, Juncker announced on the occasion of her presentation that the Commission had a slightly better point with the European Parliament, that TTIP would make any changes, in particular transparency, but also a few points of content. Mrs Malmström will do quite differently. The citizens' initiative was then granted away. Before the election, we took out all the negotiating items, investment protection, and now we want to take them back in, supposedly reforming them. It doesn't work in the back and in the front. I'm just telling you what's left of this transparency offensive. It has been announced that more and more is being published on the website of the EU Commission. This may even be the case in part, but, of course, has nothing to do with what is now being advertised for the gallery, what governments, even you yourself, but above all also Members, including this House here, need information. So there are more setbacks than progress. There are now several ways in which this transparency could reach us, but in reality the Paravents and the interests of the Great are being proposed everywhere. This is primarily not about the USA versus Europe, but it is simply about interests of large-scale organized economic units vis-à-vis others, especially consumers, et cetera. There is a variant in the USA. There, members of the Congress may also read the consolidated texts. You have to imagine that! In the European Parliament, this does not work, and in the national parliaments, in other words here, it does not work at all. There is an agreement with the USA that they set up such reading rooms in the embassies. And what happens – not only in Austria, admitted, and I also know that delicate efforts have taken place in this respect, but that is too little? The fact is: The Members of the Congress are reading, the MEPs are allowed to look at a few paragraphs somewhere, as in prison rooms, but not everything and only a few Members, and nothing happens here with us. It's unacceptable! Either we put it at the same time or the negotiating mandate given by the Member States must be used in a completely different way. We're going to have to get rid of this predicament. In reality, we do not need the US messages – Roman II – if the internal European structure were to work. Stone and clear: The Commission should provide the relevant information – the government, of course, all consolidated texts – to all governments, whatever else, and then it is an international question of how the information goes on! In Austria it is clear what is happening: It is up to Members to communicate what the Government has available in European affairs – with the corresponding advocating confidentiality levels. That's the logical consequence. But we are far away from that, so I would encourage – and we will convene a main committee by minority law, I can announce once again – that we are coming into this transparency offensive. It would also be no shame to the President to step up his involvement here. She left a letter in the summer – this is obviously a private letter, because the Members don't get it – so she came to television and to all the newspapers. She wanted to imitate the President of the German Bundestag Lammert, the CDU who is fighting exemplaryly for the transparency of Members. It worked for a newspaper round and for a post in “Hohes Haus” – that’s typical SPÖ policy – and then it was quiet again. If we ask for the letter that the President of the European Parliament has written, we will not get it, but we will also ask it. So it would be to do something at all corners and ends. We're going to open that up. You will experience this request for a Special Committee on EU Affairs. Finally, just a good tip because the year 2016 is coming, Minister of State: We have only one chance or you at all for TTIP negotiations if you remove these corporate rights. This whole talk by Mrs Malmström about a new Court of Justice is first of all music of the future, second, one millimeter in the direction and thirdly, no one, like everyone else, rightly does not believe it! But the really crucial question 2016 will be the Canada Agreement. There, investment protection in a completely old manner – certainly better than what you might have in Southeast Asia, but in principle, as far as the western hemisphere is concerned, in the Uralt version – will become a nail sample. Therefore, the order of the matter is perfectly clear: Make sure that this is interpreted as a mixed agreement, i.e. that it must go to the national parliaments and that no provisional application is made! Then it will have to be voted there – before it does not apply. Everywhere, at all these steps, you sit at the place from which a state can block that accordingly. We'll ask you to do this! You will experience the Transparency Plan. It is the essence of transparency that Members should then learn more, and you will wonder what is happening there.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e47076	Next speaker: (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e47097	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I am particularly pleased that the students, the educators and educators of my former school, the HLW Bad Ischl, are here today. Welcome! [[General condolences.]] One of the objectives of the budget is to increase the attractiveness of the economic location. This clearly includes measures to counter the shortage of skilled workers. The modernisation of vocational training and the attracting of teaching are already in full swing. We have decided in the BAG-Novelle framework to try out innovative developments of the dual system, but also additional training opportunities with partial qualifications for young people who are difficult to find. The promotion of permeability and comparability of education systems – I am thinking of teaching with Matura, Matura with teaching – will also help to ensure that this dual education system enjoys the same recognition in the country as abroad. For 2016, we have a budget framework of €180 million for vocational training; 22 million more than in the previous year. These additional resources will be used for young people who have a wide range of difficulties in order to get into work and to improve quality. However, the educational reform also provides for important measures for young people to make them more professional and thus to increase their willingness to learn from entrepreneurs. The World Talent Report describes our apprenticeship system as an excellent establishment. Also, 80 percent of our professionals say that they enjoyed a good education, they would do the same again. By the way, 50 percent of entrepreneurs also have a degree in teaching. Mr Vice-Chancellor, I know that the vocational training of our young people is very much in your heart, and I am convinced that you are taking the right course with your measures and also with the evaluation of the dual training system in progress in order to make our dual training fit for the future. In the last two weeks, however, the workers' chamber and the ÖGB have gone the wrong way, where companies-bashing took place in populist manner. For us entrepreneurs, such a non-differentiated envelope is certainly not a motivation to create jobs and training places. On the contrary!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e47148	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Hauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e47170	Mr President. Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) To tourism: I believe that this is an incredibly important issue for rural areas. What do we do without working tourism, without the industry that secures jobs, saves income and preserves rural life? There is no alternative to tourism, therefore it is a normal obligation, I believe that we are here in the High House and wherever we are in favour of framework conditions for tourism so that the mood in tourism gets better again! I think that's incontrovertible. Our task is certainly not to stand here to speak and, so to speak, at the request of Mr Vice-Chancellor, to spread a positive mood, even if we cannot do so. If I had to express the mood I am personally experiencing in tourism, I would have to say: There is, unfortunately, no good mood from God! That's unfortunate, otherwise it'd be better for us. Again: A working tourism is exactly what we need, but if you look at the government's last activities – registers, VAT increases, discussions about the ban on smoking, the Allergen Regulation, the increase in property tax et cetera – then you have to say: In view of this, there can be no good mood! The mood that companies reflect in tourism is: We are the milk cows of the nation! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We can be self-employed in the truest sense of the word, namely, self-employed and constantly working, and that 24 hours in order to actually create these incomes. – This is currently the mood in tourism, and that is not surprising. Gabriel Obernosterer – certainly a profound touristist, incontrovertible, he comes from this industry, has a lot of knowledge – has recorded in his speech today that we have come to the border tax. I'm not quoting you literally, Gabriel. You've held that we've reached the border with the bureaucracy. You too speak of borders, you have rightly spoken about this. The analysis is correct, only: Where's the change? . In your speech, I have not heard a single approach, not a proposal that should be changed. Let's take a look at this in detail! Let us look, for example, at the increase in VAT from 10 percent to 13 percent! Only the implementation, the identification of this VAT increase from 10 percent to 13 percent, this three percent higher, is “almost impossible to understand” – under quotation marks. I didn't understand, the entrepreneurs don't understand that, the only ones who understand this are the programmers and the tax advisors who make an incredible amount of money again – but the entrepreneur doesn't. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I really have to quote this, because I am not able to present this practical implementation from the scepticism. I quote: “If the average price is above € 140, the share of the accommodation tax rate in the room price will rise from 80 percent to 82.5 percent. From a room price of 180 € it is 85 percent, at a price above 250 € it is 90 percent.” This is not understandable for any entrepreneur, even reasonable! And the whole thing is supposed to be subsummated under red tape?- Oh, my God! No, the opposite is the case! There is a new tax, and the entrepreneurs are unable to calculate for themselves what this consistently means for them. That's really crazy. That's why we said – let's try it again! – we want to relieve this so important industry. We already know that this whole package in itself also needs counter-financing, but in view of this Murk's implementation, when it comes to over-bureaucratic implementation of this VAT increase, we really need to go here and say: Let's put this aside once, let's go back to the start, let's stay at the 10 percent! Competition countries such as Switzerland and Germany also have much lower VAT rates on Logis. In this context, I should now like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e47264	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hauser is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e47443	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Mulder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e47465	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! When it comes to promoted, durable housing, Europe likes to look at Austria, because nowhere do international delegations deal more with this issue than in the Federal Capital. The simple answer is: Austria does not leave it to the game of the market where we live, how and how much we live! Housing development plays an essential role in this context, in the order of about 1 per cent of GDP, and the funding targets are, of course, made very close to citizens in the countries. Residential construction in Austria is an essential economic factor in building materials production, and according to Wifo, 40 percent of employees in the construction industry are even active in residential construction. This is, of course, an enormous employment effect. 100 million € in investments in residential construction create jobs for 1,090 employees. In the case of road construction, only 730 people are employed. A newly planned innovative measure is the housing investment bank, which we will decide in the next plenary session. It is planned that 30 000 flats will be built for 68 000 people. This additional offer not only dampens the prices of newly built apartments, but of course also affects the entire housing market at a low price. It raises the quality of housing by means of good standards in support of housing, it is ecologically and economically useful, because of the fact that it is also being built more in the conurbations, especially because of the construction of common interest, and accompanying measures in the infrastructure are also planned to enable orderly growth in the conurbations. From this WBIB pot are also available resources for thermal-energy renovation, which is ecologically very important. [[Abg. Moser: And the massively shortened!]] The value added... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Höbart.]] – It is also being rehabilitated there. Mr. Vice-Chancellor has explained that this area is being re-examined. This renovation is a very essential area, because it also gives rise to a higher value added than in the new building; you can create more value here by 10 percent per person. The refurbishment check is also available – this is a temporary offensive – and this title will be available for 45 million euros next year. Overall, it is a economical budget, but from my point of view it makes Austria richer – rich in additional quality living space, rich in an offer that has a total cost-effective effect, and also rich in international recognition for this success model of Austrian housing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e47510	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Honey. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e47532	Mr President. I would just like to say a few words about the goal of attracting and modernising dual training, apprenticeship training. That's an objective we're sure to support. I think that some progress has been made recently in modernising vocational education and training. But with regard to quality assurance in apprenticeship training, there is still a very, very long way ahead of us. It is still a coincidence – no matter what Mrs tiny, who is now no longer there – whether a young person is lucky to get into a dedicated training firm and to be really intensively cared for there, to get good education and education, or whether he has, under the lead mark, the “nothing” to be confronted as a cheap assistant with activities that actually have nothing to do with training. – It just can't be! It can't be that we leave it to chance whether young people in Austria get a good education. 98 percent of all apprentices complete a positive degree in the vocational school, but 25 percent do not pass the examination. So it is not the commitment of young people that they do not create this degree of education, that would contradict it, but definitely also the quality of business training, and that is where we have to start. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] The Minister has already addressed this approach, Mr Loacker. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Where would it be necessary to continue to invest? – In any case, in the training and training of trainers, but also in quality control. It simply can't be that the apprenticeship, i.e. the Chamber of Commerce, controls its own establishments in connection with training. It doesn't work. Quality control must be outsourced if you want it to work. Ladies and gentlemen, almost half of the apprentices claim to have only irregular contact with their trainers. A third of all apprentices say they have to carry out non-training activities on a regular basis. And with what consequence? - In our system almost none. Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is a central point that we also send a signal to these young people and say: We don't leave you alone in the businesses, but we're looking forward to you getting a good education! Under 18 years of overtime is actually forbidden, but still 36 percent of apprentices have to do overtime on a regular basis. That can't be! And I'm just asking you: Imagine your son/daughter, 16, 17 years old, going to a higher vocational school. He or she already has 38 hours of teaching a week, and then at once the mathematics professor comes to realize that instead of four hours a week, six hours of mathematics would be done, and two hours in addition in German and two hours in addition might also be in English. Then suddenly we are no longer at 38 hours, but at 44 hours a week, which the Sixteen-year-old must have in school. Would you just let that happen without anyone saying anything about it? Or imagine that the mathematics professor would decide that he is no longer teaching mathematics, but that he is being cleaned every week in the math hour of the gym. Would you let that happen? - No, you wouldn't! And I expect from all of you – and also from you, Mr Minister – that you give the apprentices the same commitment and attention as students or all young people in our country. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that the objective of attracting, improving the quality of apprenticeship training will be taken seriously, and it will go a little further. I now hear from a planned evaluation, perhaps you could make that a little more concrete. It is certainly good when data and facts are the basis for further development. But what Members tiny says is that it is ridiculous to use the assessment and opinion of apprentices – what they themselves say about their training – is absolutely unacceptable.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e47605	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Nachbaur. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e47627	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Dear taxpayers! Dear future taxpayers! Today, we have talked more often about the goal-point bankruptcy, where 2,500 employees have to tremble about their November content as well as their Christmas money. We Members are sitting in the warm room here, and so some people here seem to me far away from the people who may have fears of the future. [[Abg. Kickl: The trade unionists are in their luxury limousines!]] I am therefore saying this because we are quite sure that the unemployment figures have been beautiful for years. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wenninger.]] Nowhere in the world are there as many early pensioners as we do. We have record unemployment, although we are spending the highest possible resources on the labour market throughout Europe. Sometime you have to wake up and admit that the recipes do not work. The world has become global, and there are digital business models today. These are the global multis that do not pay a euro of taxes or create a single job or contribute to the added value in our country. On the contrary, they put pressure on our SMEs, who, in addition to the high tax burden, also have to beat around with a partly harassous bureaucracy. The general conditions and regulations do not apply to these global multi-s, because they would otherwise be already. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schellhorn.]] It's completely wrong. We need to see that we bring these distorting global multis into the tax system and at the same time we strengthen our performance providers, do not shrink them and think about time cuts, overtime euros and others, while the global multis are getting thicker and thicker. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinhauser.]] However, we are pleased that we have now begun a discharge for SMEs. I would like to give three examples. First: If you make a mistake in accounting, you are no longer punishable. The slight negligence was abolished. For all revenue and expenditure computers, losses are now unlimited, and SMEs listed in the mid-market segment are no longer subject to reporting quarterly, but only once a year. That's a good start. In this sense, we must continue because SMEs are the backbone of our economy. My support for this is yours, Mr Minister of Economic Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e47685	Next word: Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e47717	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Minister! Minister of the Economy! The Minister of Labour has disappeared again, unfortunately. Ladies and gentlemen! The Minister of Economic Affairs is not responsible for everything, but for much. That's what we've heard today, and I hope it's so. I'm coming to UG 40, business. Important for the economy, for the location Austria: The location must be very attractive, and growth impulses must be present. Small and medium-sized enterprises need to be strengthened and should not be taxed, for example with these senseless registers, as we have already heard today. Of course, I would also like to address positive aspects: Minister, in Salzburg we have handed a lot of master's letters, I think we have 254 new masters in October. That's positive. It must also be remembered that such a master's exam with the courses and so on costs between € 8,000 and €9 000. This is not a matter of course. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, in 2016 we have available in the UG 40 323 million €. This is €41.7 million less than 2015, which the competent minister has already addressed today. Mr Minister, I am not of your opinion if you say that the decline or the lower resources in thermal rehabilitation will not have an impact. I think that's a good thing. The population has taken this very well. They have also addressed the housing offensive with which the construction industry is to be stimulated. I am skeptical, but let us hope, Mr Vice-Chancellor. You have also addressed tourism. I am right in terms of urban tourism, but otherwise I do not always believe this statistics. For one thing, Mr Minister, I would like to ask: I believe that it is very, very important that we also support small hydropower plants, which are subject to enormous price pressure. I think that would be an important approach. Thank you very much. [[Abg. Knes: Bravo, Doppler!]] – Claps, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e47750	The next item is the speech by Mr Schopf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e47771	Mr President. Minister! My dear! Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like, like my colleague, to deal briefly with the topic of youth, apprentices and their vocational training. I would like to point out, first of all, that I would like to stress all these points to a hundred percent that you have mentioned. It's actually the way you think there's a lot of trouble in this area. Nevertheless, a few facts about the budget: In the coming year, € 169.4 million will be earmarked for the wide range of aids in apprenticeship training. That is right and important, and I also thank you for that. Ladies and gentlemen, the objective of action, which we have also set in this regard, is extremely important, and the key figures for 2016. We think one third of the fifteen-year-olds should start apprenticeship training. The drop-out rate is expected to be reduced from around 14 percent to 13 percent. The aim is also to achieve at least 47 000 positive examinations in 2016. Another point, which is particularly important for young girls, is that women currently concentrate on apprenticeship training in three areas: retail trade, office shopkeeper and hairdresser. I think it is important to try, in other professional sectors, especially in the technical field, to take measures to make it more attractive and interesting for female young people to learn a teaching profession in other areas as well. We naturally support these objectives. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] My dear! Ladies and gentlemen! We all know that our system of dual training is a model internationally and offers many advantages: integration into the working world, practical learning at work, the financial advantage of apprenticeship compensation, the acquisition of contribution periods for pension insurance. Nevertheless, and this is interesting, the number of apprentices is falling. Why? – And that's important: Although we know that many of our young people achieve top performance at European Championships, World Championships in the field of apprenticeship training, there are still shadow pages. As a trade unionist, we know of course these sides of shadow. A few days ago, an apprenticeship monitoring was carried out and presented by the Institute of Vocational Training for the first time. 6 500 apprentices were asked about this, and the result is quite sobering: Four out of ten apprentices say they are missing or have no contact with the instructor or the trainee. [[Abg. Loacker: Do you think you will find more apprentices if you say so?]] They do not know in part who is in the company who is in charge of apprenticeship training. A third of the apprentices, Mr Schatz, also said, are almost constantly being used to work outside the profession. That's the reality! Every second apprentice has said that if he is faced with the decision to learn this profession, he would say: No, I wouldn't learn that anymore! [[Abg. Schellhorn: Such a fool!]] [[Abg. Loacker: 90 percent of apprentices are satisfied with their trainers! You make the teaching bad, incredible!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I think there are good reasons why we have difficulties. Therefore, it is necessary to solve these problems, then there will be no more problems in the apprenticeship field, then we will have enough young people in this Republic who are willing to learn a teaching profession again.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e47870	The next item is the speech by Mr Gerhard Schmid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e47894	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! The topic of economics: With the 2016 budget, the Federal Government is famous to enable tax benefits for both workers and the economy. A positive approach is to reduce the tax rate. However, the tax reform with a announced amount of €5 billion requires counter-financing, which is to be voted on by the economy. The economic situation of Austria is currently extremely tense, especially for the medium-sized economy. Insolvency applications in increasing numbers are the result. Insolvency leads to capital and job destruction to an appalling extent and thus also to a massive burden on the social system. The sanctions imposed by the US on Russia by the EU lead to an economic collapse in Austria and to an increase in US exports to Russia. There is also an insignificant additional burden in the context of operating expenses. The Registers Regulation is technically not applicable either. In summary, this highly praised tax reform represents a dangerous burden package for the local medium-sized economy, which must be reconsidered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e47923	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Hanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e47944	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to begin by replicate two previous speakers, who spoke about apprenticeship training. I would like to point out quite clearly that apprenticeship training is also a model in international comparison. Many, many Austrian entrepreneurs and apprentice trainers do excellent work here. This should be noted once and for all. [[Congratulations on MEPs from ÖVP and NEOS.]] To my previous speakers: I also have a bad mood in Austria, the Austrians and Austrians, but I also find that the mood is much worse than the actual situation. If we discuss Austria's economic location, we need to discuss international competitiveness, and if we are discussing international competitiveness, then perhaps we should look at our exports. The numbers look like this: Goods and services worth 180 billion we produce in Austria are exported internationally. I have been active in exporting myself for a few years and can already say clearly in the House that this is not a matter of course. We must be very competitive in the price situation, in the technological situation, that is not a matter of course. If you still break down these 180 billion on the individual population, then you come to an export of 20 000 € per inhabitants, and that is we in international comparison to place seven – you hear: in place seven! As far as the export of services is concerned, we are in 10th place. In football we are very pleased when we are among the top ten, in the field of the economy one sometimes has the impression that this is going down a bit. But, of course, competitiveness is crucial, and that is why the initiative of our Vice-Chancellor and the Federal Government should also be welcomed to reduce the additional wage costs. Only then, if we are competitive in the future, will we be able to keep this standard. The reduction of additional wage costs is a first big step, creates jobs and leads us once again a step further on the way to bringing Austria back to the top. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e47989	Next word: Mr Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e48011	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Economic Affairs! On the one hand, I have quite an understanding of your statements, but I must say that – in order to remain objective, as the colleague Obernoster has suggested – these statements are not worthy of yours. I think that should not be contradicted. Your statements show you've never been a businessman. Their statements show that you have come to the world in chamber diapers, went to chamber schools and are still the representation of the “chambers of industrial prevention” because they do not know competition. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] The statement that 3 percent will be passed on to the customers anyway is a mistake statement! Anyone who has stood in free competition knows that the market determines prices and that competition is therefore also large. The competition for Austrian tourism is extremely large. I also believe that it is absolutely essential to contradict the fine dyery, since the EW budget has now been raised by one 16 percent. Real over the last ten years, there has been a 25 percent loss, which results in a minus again. And that should not be contradicted either: If the Minister of Economic Affairs says that the promotions are going down, he is right, but at the same time driving up the taxes is again an economic madness! Finally, I should like to point out that the profits are increasing: There is a difference between profit and value-added, and it would be better for an economic minister to look at reality and not tell his stories here. That should not be contradicted.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e48050	Next speaker: Mr Kucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e48071	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen at the gallery! Mr Schellhorn, I would like to address the matter a little more differentiated and, in some respects, try to weigh positive and negative things a little more. One achievement that we can all be proud of in Austria is that for the first time this year we succeeded in investing more than €10 billion in the field of research and development, and that in the field of the research rate we first over 3 per cent. This is a performance of many people who are engaged in research institutions and companies in this field. I think these are developments that we can all be very proud of. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Yes, we must continue our efforts in these areas if we want to belong to the Innovation Leaders, namely those countries that are researching at the knowledge line, which are also producing at the technological border. There is another important step taken, many small steps taken, and I believe that we are taking exactly these steps together. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Especially in times of important structural reforms, where we are trying to take these areas step by step, and where future areas should also be strengthened, it is precisely this in Austria that exactly the area of education, research, development and innovation is further strengthened. If we look at the corresponding budgets, the breakdown 31 for example: there we stay at the amount of € 101.6 million. Next year, from 2016 onwards, the research premium will be increased to 12 percent, which totals more than € 500 million, especially for research-intensive technology companies. And there will also be an Austrian fund, which will further increase the funding for research and education expenditure. In the field of research funding, all of us know the levers; more needs to be done in many areas. The Research and Technology Development Council has made many recommendations, many recommendations have already been implemented, many have already been launched, and much will be done in this area. The field of basic research, which is at least at the beginning of the value chain and is the basis for innovation, needs to be strengthened. It is about educational reforms that we are introducing, where we really have to start with the youngest, in kindergarten, the joy of strengthening the curiosity of technology, technology in the future. The priorities, I also believe, of the BMWFW are well-elected, which is about cooperation between science and the economy, as well as about questions of the transfer of innovation and technology and also about support for the creation of alternative companies. This is, I believe, a very, very important priority, which we should continue to strengthen in the future, because it really is also about jobs of the future. All in all, we are well on the road in the field of applied research. On the way to the top of the world, there is still a lot missing, these measures must and will still be followed.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e48126	Mr Mitterlehner spoke on a point of view. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e48147	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schellhorn, I have already taken the statements made by Statistics Austria in the year that in April and May corresponding cost increases in the area of accommodation, which were not collectively eligible, have already been passed on to the customer. Similar things have also happened with regard, for example, to theatre cards. This means that the market is gradually passing on certain increases to customers. I would just like to give you one thought: If I am a price leader, so if I have the highest price among all providers, I will be very difficult to pass on a price increase. When I'm in the middle price range, and there are corresponding price comparisons when I'm in the middle of the segment, I can then pass on such an increase to the customer – certainly not to the delight of the provider, I would like to see this, of course – without harming the company. That's the one point. Second point: I don't know why you're always riding about whether someone has been a business person or not. I say to you, for example, that I led the entire company in the Economic Federation – Peter Haubnerhat, for example. This is like a medium-sized company, where you also have to take over all the management tasks. To be honest, the thesis that the farmer with the largest potatoes is the best agriculture minister seems kind of funny to me. That is why I would also say that it is not about what you believe now, but it is just about how the whole constellation is macroeconomic. And that I can distinguish revenues and profits, please take it with me, even if I was employed in the chamber. – Just so much and thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e48186	There are no more words available to me. The discussions on this subject are therefore complete. [[13:02:37]] UG 34: Transport, Innovation and Technology (Research) UG 41: Transport, innovation and technology
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e48220	We come to the negotiation of subheadings 34: Transport, Innovation and Technology (Research), and 41: Transport, Innovation and Technology. A joint debate is taking place on this matter. Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e48247	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! One important point I would like to discuss today in the context of this budget debate is the infrastructure, the planned infrastructure projects. Now we've agreed, and we've got three big tunnels. You can discuss this. We got them, we want to finish them. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Moser.]] But if you use a large part of the infrastructure budget for these large construction projects, then you have to deal with the rest of the money and, above all, with the rest of the investment projects – I am convinced. There are the big so-called TEN routes – those that already exist, and those that are still coming – to which I would like to pay attention. Until now, we always assumed that the west axis, i.e. the Salzburg-Vienna connection, plus the south axis have a corresponding importance. Recently, I received the information that coming from the Czech Republic via the Summerauer route, the Schober-Axis continues to be extended to Koper at least once by the Czech Republic, with a certain speed of which I fear that Austria will not make it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Moser.]] The second – not new, but already propagated by Germany for several years – is the direct connection from Munich via the so-called Rieder Kreuz to Linz, the short link to Linz, to leave out Salzburg and the very bad connection via Rosenheim. In Austria, I do not find any corresponding counterparts, and I can only suspect that we will only retrace when the Czechs or the Germans have reached the border with their routes. That wouldn't be the first time. We know the historical piece of Italy, where it was so that the Italians from the south built almost to the Austrian border – and then Austria literally showed them the long nose. Mr Federal Minister, I would ask you to really look at these two things and to intervene in an emergency, because it is useless if we are wrong or not perfectly planning the few money we have. In addition to the railways, however, I would like to draw attention to the aviation for a moment – especially the charges that we have in this area. I know, Federal Minister, you are not personally and directly responsible for this, but it is fact that this concerns all the aircraft – whether we speak of the liner plane, of airports, of need flyers and so on, and above all, all negative. We had an event at which the airport Vienna and the airports invited the members of the Transport Committee, presented their data there and then made a central request to us, namely the abolition of the flight charge. This is really a harmful matter for all concerned, and I am therefore pleased, Minister, that you have just said that you can identify yourself with the fact that this flight tax will be removed without replacement. Therefore, my request to the second half of the government: If the ÖVP is really the party of the economy, then it will be easy that the ÖVP joins this wish. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I am sure that if the SPÖ supports this, it will also bring the ÖVP together. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e48347	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. I assume that one can ignore the term “the Federal Minister” in this request. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e48418	Next speaker: Mr Heinzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e48439	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the house and in front of the screens! In 2016, the Federal Government will again invest more strongly in the expansion of the infrastructure. The Federal Ministry of Transport, Innovation and Technology has a total of €3.83 billion available for 2016, and that is – and this is very important to emphasize – €481 million more than in 2015. In the coming years too, investment will be made in the expansion of the rail. The expansion of the rail will focus on investments by 2021. By 2021, around €14 billion, i.e. €2 billion annually, will be invested in the expansion of the railway infrastructure. [[Abg. Höbart: South or North Korea?]] This creates and secures tens of thousands of jobs. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleague Deimek! It is also important to stress that this money not only flows in the expansion of the large axes, but many regionally meaningful projects will also be implemented. In this context, I would like to thank our Minister, Mr Alois Stöger, for continuing the successful and smart investment policy of recent years. Ladies and gentlemen, the ever-increasing number of passengers is right in the policy of railway development. As you know, Austria is now the railway driver country of Numero one in the European Union. In concrete terms, each Austrian, each Austrian in the annual average of 1 425 kilometres, is 45 percent more than the average European. [[Abg. Höbart: And this is the success of our colleague Heinzl!]] [[Abg. Kickl: The trains have been a bit full lately!]] One reason for this is – Mr Kickl, I hope you will also drive by train – in addition to the well-developed infrastructure, the very cheap fare with us is certainly also. To be mentioned: A train kilometer costs an average of 5.9 cents to the passenger in Austria, compared to that, the kilometers in fully privatized, liberalized rail traffic in England cost on average 15.2 cents. In rail freight transport, too, the railway country Austria Numero is one in the European Union, and that is not only good for the environment. In the area of road infrastructure, the ASFINAG will invest around €7.3 billion in development by 2021, especially in the modernisation of the high-level road network, and the measures, which are very important, will continue to improve road safety. Although in the last 15 years the number of road fatalities has more than halved, there is – and we all know that very well – still a lot to do. The issue of safety for motorcyclists is more up-to-date than ever. Other investment priorities are the expansion of the broadband Internet and flood protection. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The 2016 budget speaks a clear language in the transport sector, ensuring that investments in a secure and efficient infrastructure are continued. This benefits not only people and the environment, but above all the economy.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e48502	Next item is the report by Mr Willi. - Please. [[Call at the FPÖ: That was the Sunday talk on Thursday!]] [[Abg. Heinzl: Mr Kickl, are you there again?]] [[Call the FPÖ: It was me!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Abg. Heinzl: You? – You only deal with shipping in traffic!]] [[Further calls and calls between SPÖ and FPÖ MPs.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Willi. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the I ask the speaker, out of respect, to stop the discussion. Mr deputies, please, you have the microphone, you are louder!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e48613	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Minister, I quote an APA report from today, in which it says: ‘Transport Minister Alois Stöger (SPÖ) is tearing in the VW scandal for manipulated values of the patient thread. "I went all this a little bit too slow. I do not consider the salami tactics appropriate for the Group’. Mr Minister, my patience is also at the end, because you are only a spectator throughout the exhaust scandal, and you should be an actor. You know, there is an EU directive that even provides that the national states should check all this information by the manufacturers themselves. Therefore, independent post-tests, independent controls also needed in Austria, because they do not take you from any German authority. Therefore, I will not let you go through that you only sit as a spectator, as a commentator, but even do not take advantage of the opportunities you have. The expression of this is: There's nothing in the budget for such post-checks. Mr Minister, you will finally be active in this matter! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now get to the train. It's very interesting – I experience it all the time –: When it comes to the very large sums, they will be won over very quickly and without great discussion in Parliament. Two days ago, we had a government template with the title: The Federal Act approving the justification of pre-taxes by the Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology. This law looks like three paragraphs. [[The speaker shall hold up a sheet of paper on which the text of the Government template stands]] Two days ago, it was won by the majority in the house, and do you know what it's all about? – It's 42 billion €. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ottenschlager.]] Ten lines of law for 42 billion €, no big discussion, won. These are the sums you, Mr. Minister, can invest in the train. If we are all under the ground by 2070, the Austrians will still repay these debts! Now you can say – especially as a greener –: Great, it's going to be invested in the train. [[Abg. Moser:... responsible handling of tax money!]] This opinion can be expressed only by the Greens, for many things, but not for one thing: that we would not deal responsibly with taxpayers' money. We are considered the party that leads its own party funds very transparent and accessible to everyone. With us, there are no excavators, no neemers, no one can predict anything bad in terms of money and use of tax money. I think that when it comes to such amounts, just around €42 billion, it is important to see whether these high amounts are useful, that is to say, useful in the sense of the greatest possible welfare effect. I would be glad if we once had a law – ten lines – with which 42 billion euros are simply loosened for education. There would really be something going on in Austria. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Pock.]] So now we have all of this, Minister. So you can spend so much money, but the question now is: Is this money used well? – Factim is, you are currently expanding the railway large, including three tunnels, Brenner Base Tunnel, Semmering Base Tunnel, Coralm Tunnel, and with all these tunnels, there is currently only one goal, namely that is to be built. Okay, then what? What if all of this is done? Then we want to use this expensive infrastructure: on the one hand, to transfer goods from the road to the rail, and on the other hand, to transport as many people as possible by rail. We Greens have made the proposal, we take the Alpine transit stock exchange and make it an Austrian position in Brussels, a market economy instrument for moving goods from road to rail. That was rejected here in the house. I don't understand, because we need a plan, as it should continue after the construction of these tunnels. If we don't create a shift in goods and if we don't bring people on track anymore, it doesn't make sense. Two days ago, a “Kurier” article with the title – I quote – appeared: “ÖBB is expected to cancel the planned exchange of the old Intercity fleet.” The background is, the ÖBB feels the competition of the Westbahn. The Westbahn invests in new trains, and now the ÖBB wants to cancel exactly the planned intercity trains, which should finally be used in remote transport without barriers, so that ÖBB can also offer accessible long-distance transport. Mr Minister, don't let yourself be able to do that! We also need a barrier-free long-distance fleet, but what we need more is investment in public transport. In this “Kurier” article, I quote: “This is an important strategic decision,” says Kern, the head of the ÖBB, “we have to think carefully whether a new long-distance fleet is still expecting.” And then we're going to go on: “The purchase of trains could create expensive overcapacity. Especially because, in addition to increasing competition, passenger numbers – which rise in local and regional transport – have been stagnating in long-distance traffic for some 34 million years.” The analysis is: Long-distance transport is stagnating, local and regional transport is growing. We Greens would answer this way: Investment in regional and local transport, and if there is still money left, in long-distance transport. They're doing it the other way around. The main issue is long-distance transport, and what remains flows into local and regional transport. Minister, we both have an exciting year 2016 ahead of us. I expect you to make a commitment to the exhaust gas scandal so that we can finally continue in favour of the environment with regard to the pollutants of car transport and, secondly, a reasonable investment in the railway infrastructure, because 42 billion euros would have to be invested better than you are currently doing.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e48700	Mr Ottenschlager is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e48721	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! In fact, the transport budget is one of the largest budget items in the federal budget. Subdivided Transport €3.8 billion, about €480 million more than in the previous year, and about €2 billion will be invested in the expansion of the railway infrastructure. There is a great deal of argument about which measures are useful here. I would just like to say, Mr Willi, because you have previously shown the three short paragraphs, that is the law, but we have very well, and this for the first time, in the committee, is discussing the background of this law, and the framework plan has been presented transparently. That's nothing but a list... [[Abg. Moser: The first time!]] – Yes, I also put it on our flag that we have been pressured here that we – yes, but now we have succeeded – have discussed this in committee. [[Abg. Moser: I said that last year!]] So please do not represent that this is just a simple law now, but there is very much the opportunity here to see what projects are being invested in. It is true that the majority of the financial resources will be invested in the major projects already mentioned – the focus of the west line, the south line, the Brenner axis – in further modernisations, including railway stations, freight terminals, as well as security measures, park-and-ride facilities or noise protection. I'm just saying that in the middle of the order, so everyone knows. It will be invested throughout Austria. We have investments from Burgenland to Vorarlberg. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I also believe that the small and medium-sized projects are very important and, above all, can have an employment effect for the small and regional construction industry. That is, of course, right. [[Demonstrative applause by Moser and Willi.]] I am also in favour of further thinking over the next few years about how we are dealing with these high amounts of investment over the next few years and decades and what kind of financial instruments we might think of that are different from those that are now. But one thing is also said: It is also agreed to bring about efficiency gains and cost reductions through the review of standards and regulations. You know this is happening on a continuous basis, and that can mean a few million in these programmes. Ladies and gentlemen, because the transport of passengers and goods was also addressed: The subsidies for the so-called public services mean about €680 million in the coming year only from the federal government, which is also a large fraction. What does that mean? – The Federal Government, but also countries which would not function without these financial contributions. There is also a need to think about how we can improve efficiency. For example, we should consider a body of competence which could organise calls for transport services, namely not only for the federal government but also for the countries, perhaps on a voluntary basis in the first step. This would mean better coordination, closer co-operation, possibly also cost-effectively better conditions and overall relief of taxpayers. [[Call the ÖVP:Ready time!]] Finally, Mr. Federal Minister, one more request: Please work with your colleagues in the Vienna City Government to ensure that the two important projects, the extension of the U5, as well as the Lobau Tunnel, are finally addressed, as the Lobau Tunnel is of crucial importance not only for the Viennans but also for the entire eastern region, also for the commuters from Lower Austria, the Burgenland and the Styria, and we finally have to get into the corridors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e48793	Next speaker: Mr Pock. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e48815	Mr President. Estimated Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! We are discussing the budget on transport, infrastructure, and I would also like to address my previous speakers and say that we need to separate the apples and pears we are discussing. On the one hand, we discuss the running operation of the railway and of course also the buses, since we are very good in quality. There are many measures to improve, but I do not concentrate on them now, since I have talked about them very often in plenary and my requests have always been rejected. But we are also talking about the government's investment policy. We are talking about the fact that we want to invest almost €14.6 billion in infrastructure projects over the next five years, specifically in railway projects. There the one side of the government, namely the black one, has completely failed, and the red one, you can only congratulate, has won the whole thing. I know this is your policy, you want to build jobs on debt; this policy has so far failed, but that at least shows a strong enforcement. [[Abg. Moser: A tunnel drill doesn't bring jobs!]] I would now like to mention a few examples, since we are always accused, these are the NEOS, these are neoliberal sacks and they have no idea, because they are not responsible. But let's see what's been communicated in recent months before the whole thing is decided. I start with a gentleman who is not quite uncolored politically: Minister of Finance Hans Jörg Schelling. What's he got on the 13th? On September 20, 2014, “profile” was said to be “profile ”? – ‘Austria has an expenditure problem, not a revenue problem.’ So spending of €15 billion doesn't seem to be distressing anyway. And what does Schelling continue to say? – “We save on the state and invest where it continues.” So the transfer would be formally probably the transport then on the new rails. What does the ÖVP Parliamentary Club say on the 14th? October 2015? – More expenditure goes exclusively in education, science and research. Yes, the budgets have risen, but how? – In education, they increased by €100 million. At the same time, however, we are talking about €14.6 billion in five years for the infrastructure, with an investment policy in the 20th century. In the 21st century it was actually modern, not in the 21st century. ==References== But now it's even more exciting: The Council of Wise Men, which was set up by Minister of Finance Schelling, who was the country in the 21st century. In the 19th century, it wanted to catapult, to represent foreign and domestic experts, what does the Council of Weisens say about the bmvit investment policy? – “For the experts, budget resources should be recast into future-related areas – the infrastructure budget was oversized especially in the areas of road and tunnel construction and set wrong priorities.” – That was 7th. ==References== ==References== April 2015: “Wieser considers the expansion of the infrastructure in Austria “to be strongly overdimensioned. If much is to be poured into concrete, we are strong, with the immaterial infrastructure in Austria weak.” What does WIFO say about this? These statements are basically supported by WIFO and IHS. So what does the WIFO say, Karl Aigerger? – “Proposals that are better, but also more complicated, are not accepted by politics. One could achieve much higher growth with a smaller deficit, “if we improve the structures through expenditure instead of building the coral tunnel.” So what is the key statement of all these people who have actually been intensively concerned with investment policy? – Of course, you can create jobs if we build tunnels and roads, but the first question that remains unanswered is: Do we even need this infrastructure? - Not to the fullest. You can say that quite clearly. The second question is: What jobs are we promoting, and how will they be designed in the future? We now know that over the next 20, 30 years, jobs will change dramatically, and we need to invest in new industries, we need to invest in new services and in new business so that we can secure our economy permanently – and not as it has been done since the 1950s. It's not a cow's skin! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e48856	Mr Kucher. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e48878	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Pock has just said that the budget needs to be recast into future-related areas. I should like to congratulate you on the fact that this is not happening in any area as much as in the field of research, technology and innovation policy in Austria, because it is about the key social, social and economic challenges of the future. That's what we're talking about. In the context of an ageing society, how do we want to ensure a good, best health system for all people in Austria in the future? What do the jobs of the future look like? How will the working world change? What changes, opportunities and risks result from new production technologies? How can we ensure that, so to speak, our lives, our environment can continue to develop on a high standard in Austria? What is clean, safe, sustainable energy? These are precisely the key issues that we strongly support in the field of applied research in Austria and where we are on a very good path.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e48905	Ladies and gentlemen, I should just like to remind you that you may make a request. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e48932	Thank you very much. – It is noted that we are perfectly reeled, multitasking. The request is already in preparation. I can return to the budget section for the UG 34. It is about keeping the €428 million planned – a very high level with which we are at the forefront in the international field among the leading industrial nations. As of next year, the research premium will be increased to 12 percent. This is another €500 million, which is available to technology-leading and innovative companies. What is very important is that we focus on key issues in this area in particular. These are four central funding columns in the field of information and communication technologies. Especially the ICT sector in Austria, which is one of the very large growth drivers, has long since passed tourism in terms of gross domestic product. Broad broadband development will continue, and we have set a very strong target for the 2020 broadband strategy: 300 million € next year. It's not supposed to make any difference in the future, whether you're living in the city or in the country. This will continue to be implemented by 2020. Especially the implementation of the Cost Reduction Directive, which was adopted here in Parliament a few weeks ago, is an example of intelligent saving by, for example, making sure that this can be used twice and several times. The focus is on new, intelligent production technologies. We are especially in the field of Industry 4.0, intelligent factories of the future, in Austria very, very well on the road. The focus in the field of energy is on safe, clean and efficient energy. And this is about the huge area of mobility, where intelligent transport solutions and environmentally friendly transport are to be forced. The Federal Minister has also set a priority to support young talents and also to increase the proportion of women in the field of technology companies. That is why I should like to make the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gisela Wurm, Mr Dorothea Schittenhelm, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. This is about the generatlas as a resource for gender budgeting. A great research project – jointly by TU Wien, Uni Wien and BMVIT. This project will continue to be ensured in the future, for which we would like to fight anyway; genderatlas.at is the address of the associated homepage. The application is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] All in all, we are on a good footing in the field of applied research in Austria. Many measures still need to be followed, so that we can achieve our high targets in the international field.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e49031	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e49107	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e49128	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The transport budget is well known as a large budget. It will be built into the future, transport routes, railways, road construction, all that we have in this area, are projects that are designed for the future that will last over generations. The train has been holding for over 100 years. So you see, that's certainly a forward-looking thing. That is why this budget must also be large. First of all, Mr. Minister. Yes, there are improvements, in the transport sector, in various areas, in the railway sector. I must confess with joy: My long-required project, the Wolfurt freight station, is under construction, is also available in this budget. An important investment for the Vorarlberg economy in order to become more competitive again. This is once the positive, you are expanding various railway stations, you are expanding freight routes – but unfortunately too little intensive. And that's where the problem lies. If we always say that we want to bring more goods from the road to the rail, then of course I also have to make the rail network so attractive, namely that I can transport the goods quickly, that I get from A to B relatively quickly, that I also have suitable good connections. There it is already happening, and I would like to talk about a major problem, which is a major problem not only in passenger transport but also in freight transport. For example, over the Arlberg – Vorarlberg is very disadvantaged in this area – we have the problem with the rail that the expansion is far too slow forward. West Austria was neglected here, Minister. I look forward to this with great concern, as there are certainly possibilities for improvement. Mr Minister, I would ask you to look more closely at future budgets in this direction in order to become more competitive here. I would also like to go by train from time to time if I came forward faster, but unfortunately this is not the case at present. That's only one option for me if I don't have any more options, then I have to choose the train ride, which I hate to do, I have to say quite honestly. If the offer were right, I'd do it a lot better and drive more by train. – So a task for you, Minister! – Yes, you may have a better route to the east of Austria. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: We like to take a train!]] We in the West are a bit disadvantaged. I just tried to explain that if you'd been listening to me. I see a big problem with the drivers who are the milk cows of the nation, Mr Federal Minister. I will make a request – I have not finished it today – to the Transport Committee. Again we are standing before an annual change, with next month the new vignette comes. We all know that their price has increased automatically, and that's a big problem, I think. [[Abg. Willi: Go to Italy once!]] We use the highway, we pay toll for it, that's quite clear. We have surpluses in the area of ASFINAG, as we know, Mr. von der Green. That's all a subject you can certainly talk about. But I think it is necessary to relieve this milk cow of the nation a little, and that's when it comes to tolls. We pay toll for certain roads, so a special toll; when I drive through the Arlberg, when I drive the Brennerbahn, I have to pay toll – and still pay for the vignette! This is already a certain injustice, and we should take a closer look at that in order to perhaps find a fairer solution here. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Ladies and gentlemen, what else does the driver pay for? My colleague Steinbichler said from the speaker's desk yesterday that the drivers are the milk cows of the nation. That's not a secret. But what we pay for taxes: We pay a car tax, an insurance tax, a mineral oil tax, on this mineral oil tax we still pay VAT. So I have to tax one more time. That's crazy! That's only in Austria. We pay toll, we pay the vignette, we pay the nova. People and families depend on cars, especially in rural areas. And there we are again at the train: If we are not competitive on the train and cannot travel anywhere by rail and public transport, then we need the car. And here it is that we are actually punishing these people. Mr Steinbichler mentioned the family allowance yesterday: If we don't raise it anymore, we cut it off, then we punish the families x-time. We punish the families in this area, they depend on the car, we take them out with all the taxes around the car. The children have to be driven to school, the people have to drive to the workplace, the people depend on the cars. So the driver is really the one – now I would have said almost a bad word – that is the poorest one. As a driver's party, Team Stronach makes us strong for the drivers. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Abg. Willi: You're a driver's party? Change of direction!]] [[Abg. Brosz: “Spirit party” I would have said!]] [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Car Supplier Party!]] It can't be, ladies and gentlemen, that only the drivers have to face up to all the budgetary problems that this government has caused. The following, Minister: It's clear to me that we need money from the drivers so you can build up the roads so we can use them. That's all right. But there are enough taxes and revenues that drivers have to pay anyway to finance all of this. The German Minister for Transport has said this once in advance in case of a request. He said: If you charge these taxes, which the drivers pay – and this is even worse in Austria than in Germany – if you calculate them all together, then you can build the road projects that you have to build for the drivers five times! And I would like to ask you once again, Minister: Where's all the money going? – I can answer it right away: This goes into the pocket of Mr Finanzminister, who then spends it again somewhere the driver doesn't really have anything about. But he can pay it anyway. Ladies and gentlemen, you should look at the budget a little more, you should once relieve the drivers. As I said, I announced my request to you, you will still get it from me. One thing I can assure you: If the Stronach team in the government were responsible for traffic, it would be much better for drivers. [[ironic hustle and bustle with SPÖ and greens]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e49238	Mrs Himmelbauer is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e49259	I'll have an answer to that. Perhaps the Minister would then like to reply to Mr Hagen's statement. Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In addition to the transport sector, of course, it is also a matter of research which lies within the competence of the Federal Minister Stöger. I have already mentioned it in the Science and Research chapter: If we want to be successful, if we want to keep up with international competition, then we have to rely on innovation power in this country. So what is done in Chapter BMVIT – Research, which is divided into three key areas? First: participation in international cooperation. It might sound a bit strange at the first moment that Austria is a space nation. But we are very active in the European space programme, not only in financial terms, but also through the Austrian research institutes and also by the Austrian companies. We are also making an important contribution, for example, to the Rosetta mission, where not only scientific instruments have come from Austria, but also where we have actively contributed to the construction of the missile, so successful that we have even achieved a higher order volume than we actually paid into the programme. € 17.9 million is included in the mandatory programme – which is expected to be economic performance – and € 30.36 million in the annual electoral programme, which varies according to contractual agreements. But, in principle, it must be said: Active participation in the European space programme is worth seeing, not least because we have been involved in this programme for 28 years. Secondly, Investment in the FTI infrastructure. Here I would particularly like to highlight the Austrian Institute of Technology, since it is an important interface between science and industry, between research and technological marketing, especially in the forward-looking areas, whether in the fields of energy, mobility, health or the environment. We have also made a continuous increase in recent years, not only in this institute, but in general in the FTI infrastructure. Thirdly, the research funding itself. The majority of these concerns the research promotion company, which, as a national agency, is the first point of contact for companies, for the institutes, for researchers themselves, and is precisely geared to the needs of these parties because of their programmes and their respective priorities. Here too, we see a slight increase in budgetary resources, which also benefits the FFG. In addition, I am also pleased that Mr Stöger has announced to the Committee that he is also thinking of using the reserves, especially if there are bottlenecks with other sources of revenue, such as the National Foundation. Finally, I would like to address broadband development, which is also apparent in the budget. The FFG is also involved in this sub-sector, it takes over the administration of broadband promotion, in particular emptying, which is particularly important. For this purpose, € 2 million will also be invested, as it is important to also assist the local authorities in consulting them. The first call has already run, from May to August. I don't want to talk about him bad at all, but I think we can draw our conclusions and findings from it, and I think that at the second call we could quite remember an extension of the call – perhaps just as far as the summer months are concerned, the time was not necessarily optimal – and perhaps extend it to a whole year, with different time periods. Of course, what is still outstanding in the broadband sector is the promotion of access and backhaul. We have not yet moved on in this area. We are talking about the subject, I believe, for more than a year and a half – not only you, Mr Minister, but also your predecessor and many others here in the House. Digitalization is all-round; we also want to use the opportunities of digitization. Mr Kucher has very well formulated why this is necessary. We have also discussed the subject here in the Federal Council, with the State Secretarys Harald Mahrer and Sonja Steßl. But it needs to be done for all the measures we want to take, the appropriate infrastructure – not only in the urban area, but also in the rural area. And we also need to get to the point of speaking, because we have to take a step, not least because this is the case in the European Union. Education reform has an important role to play in terms of infrastructure in our schools, as well as in the provision of digital skills. That's why my appeal is: Let's go! Let's go! I think it's also in good hands with you. And I'm saying thanks for that now.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e49333	I call Mr MMMag. Dr. Kassinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e49354	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! I have already noted at UG 31 in the morning that there is, of course, a correlation between innovation, research, universities, competitiveness, jobs and, in the future, the social and welfare state. I'm going to do this again. This has the reason that research in Austria is divided into several ministries. We know that there is basic research, which is more or less attributed to the Ministry of Science, the so-called applied research, which is now located at the BMVIT, and the so-called economic development that is located at a third ministry, namely the Ministry of Economic Affairs. It is quite clear to think about the extent to which an increase in effectiveness and efficiency is not taking place if one focuses on these competences in a ministry. That's what we're sure of. Come to UG 34, research and development in the area of BMVIT. It has already been addressed several times today, the truth is: Research and science are simply under-financed for what our demands are or should be, namely to be European leaders. Second point: As far as the F&E quota is concerned, we have a quota of 3%. It is said again and again that we are in place 4 or 5 in Europe. Then I wonder why we are in 11th place in one of the most important indicators, namely innovation ranking. Then it seems that the relationship between input and output would be checked. Mr Lichtenecker has already mentioned this before. What is very rudimentary about us is the evaluation of the effectiveness and efficiency of funding, especially research funding. Here, too, the message of our liberals: We support any action that will be taken, and we believe it is necessary to evaluate effectiveness and efficiency at least once and then to take appropriate measures to improve it. As far as financing is concerned, we have a threefold financing. I compare this with – I think the comparison is from Hannapi-Egger – bread, butter, honey, where the public hand must be clearly responsible for the bread so to speak. The butter and honey are consciously chosen, because it can always only be the butter on the bread, and then the honey is the flavour for the gourmet. Butter in the sense of third-party means which the companies have to introduce, and honey in the sense of a mecentatum, which still brings additional funds here through foundations or in any form whatsoever. How do we look in Austria? - We have a very, very thin bread. Of course, the thickness of the butter also depends on the thickness of the bread, so also relatively thin, and honey is practically not available. Compared to America, England or Germany, we have very, very bad quotas here and do not send any signals. We are now very excited to see whether the new foundation law for My own foundations are designed in such a way that the impulses of the Minister of Science can be given here. You'll be charged 100 million €. I am missing from what one hears from the reviews, a priority of faith. As I said, we are moving in the area of averageity. And if we do not change the framework conditions, then there will be no change in this average. Science and research are under-financed. It's enough. In the case of average two figures, the following shall be concluded: ETH Zurich: Costs per student 78 000 €, TU Vienna: Costs per student 11 000 €. I am already aware of the fact that, at ETH Zurich's cost, pensions and similar things are also paid, but there is a clear misunderstanding. That means Switzerland is investing much more. What is Switzerland in the innovation ranking? - First of all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e49412	I call Mr Hell. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e49434	Mr President. Federal Minister! I will come back to the area of transport once again. Transport infrastructure policy is a policy that needs to be forward-looking, reliable and continuous. And with this budget estimate available to us today, the framework conditions for 2016 and beyond are given. I am glad that we have put this proposal in front of us today. If I compare, yesterday the British treasurer in the British Parliament announced that the budget for the Ministry of Transport in the UK will be reduced by 37 percent. We have heard today from President Anton Heinzlschon that we have more money available, and that is also important. A significant part of the UG 41 budget: Transport, innovation and technology will spend approximately €2.1 billion on the development, operation and maintenance of the rail infrastructure. But in addition – and this has already been addressed today, but not put down with figures – this estimate includes additional expenditure. About € 106 million in rail freight transport, the transport service contract with ÖBB-Personenverkehr AG with € 683 million, the private rail transport service contract – and this should also be mentioned here – with €55 million and the grant for the construction of the Vienna metro with €78 million. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen, many transport experts point out that further expansion of public transport is also necessary in our country. Those who are not mobile can hardly participate in social and public life. That is why, I believe, it is very important that we invest in new construction lines and in new tunnels in the future. I may say here that in 1980 we fixed the extension of the West Railway line across the Tullnerfeld. We know today that if we did not have this new construction route across the Tullnerfeld, we could also have local transport in the area of Vienna-St. Pults do not do the same as is currently the case. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen, two points may have been raised briefly, which are particularly important to me. The current government programme is based on the creation of a cross-road safety authority. This budget also contains the number of staff, and we know that we can implement it accordingly. The Committee also reported that this budget will also provide financial support for the training of young people in the Austrian Federal Railways. I might be able to remind you: With 1,800 apprentices in eleven teaching workshops, the Austrian Federal Railways are the largest apprentice trainers in the technical field. 86 percent of all apprentices as well as half of about 300 female apprentices pursue a technical profession here. A good investment in the future of Austria and in the future of our youth.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e49479	Mrs Lichtenecker came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e49500	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A warm welcome to the group of boys and children who came just before! We rarely have such young guests. But that's an exciting area, now it's about research, now it's about the future. [[Abg. Heinzl: You are from Burgenland!]] - Please? – From Burgenland, a warm welcome! [[Abg. Heinzl: From Burgenland!]] [[General condolences.]] Now it's about research, innovation, infrastructure. And these are the topics that will also provide the answers to the major challenges we have now and which we will have in the future. And this goes from safe, manageable, environmentally friendly energy supply to climate and environmental protection to demographic development. These new answers require knowledge and fresh know-how. And we get fresh know-how and knowledge only through research, innovation, science. Therefore, it is also necessary to have appropriate good resources, equipment. If we now look at the UG 34, which is located in your ministry, Mr. Minister, then we have €428 million, which are also determined by the Federal Financial Framework Act until 2019. This is a sum which, if it actually remains that way, will be a loss in the future if you look at inflation. In this respect, you have to consider for yourself how to equip this even higher and better for 2016. Even if we look at the research, innovation, technology strategy and the decisions taken by the Federal Government, where it was noted that the research rate should be 3.76 percent, I must say, we have a huge gap in funding, especially in the public sector. We are very concerned that this area of the future will be strengthened. That is why I am now bringing in the resolution on funding gap to achieve the objectives of the FTI strategy by 2020: The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Government is invited to submit to the National Council a novel of the Federal Finance Laws 2016, which will increase the funds in the UG 31, UG 33 and UG 34 accordingly in order to achieve the objectives of the decided FTI strategy.” These are the steps we consider necessary in the field of science and research. Nevertheless, we believe that in the UG 34 very important areas experience a corresponding teaching. On the one hand, this is the area of international cooperation, where we believe that imagination can still be managed in order to better equip it. At the same time, important institutions and research projects from AIT to Joanneum Research are supported and supported by the FTI infrastructure. In addition, very important and excellent work is being done in the FFG, where projects in the field of information science, energy, the environment, mobility and security are supported. As we know from various areas, such as the number of patent applications, the bridge to the economy can also be done well. Mr Minister, I think that the reduction of resources for the climate and energy funds is a fatal and really bad signal. This is precisely this area that we know is such a dynamic market, which we know is a great and great project support, needs much more attention. But this is exactly the opposite. We believe that this is a serious mistake, especially because we are convinced that the many companies working in the field of energy and environmental engineering in Austria, the many municipalities that do great work there, could contribute precisely to setting a corresponding goal for Austria, namely: Austria is to become the environmental and energy engineering country number one in Europe!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e49562	Mr Stöger spoke on a point of view. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e49584	Mr President. High house! Dear students from Burgenland! Dear teachers! I am particularly pleased that you are visiting the House of Democracy together today on an important topic, namely the research and transport budget! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen on the TV screens! In fact, research is a crucial area for the future, and despite tax reform and savings, no budget cuts have been made in this area. The budget of the UG 34 is well spent with €428 million, and it is a matter of creating a leverage effect with public resources so that companies can invest in this area. Research and technology are not self-interest, they serve society and the economy. That is why I have focused on industry, industrial technologies and industrial technology infrastructure. For example, we will make 100 million € available in production research. We have also established Foundation Professorships for Industry 4.0. We will support ICT research with € 85 million. We will do a lot in the field of energy technologies, as Austria is at the forefront. We want to stay there with €80 million for mobility technologies. That's an answer! Mr Willi, it is important to me that we develop other drive technologies. This is a contribution that is crucial to me. We will also provide space technologies with €65 million next year. We are there, we can participate, and Austrian companies fly into space as well. I already said Industry 4.0, € 130 million. Last week I spent four Foundation Professorships at the universities of Linz, Graz twice and Vienna. There's something going on, we're not just talking, we're acting. This is about the high-performance material steel, that's about automotive, that's about big data, it's about aviation, it's about logistics. We are implementing these issues. The pilot factory in Aspern is already active, we want to invest in three more in 2016. We invest in the topic of self-driving cars. I did on 28 May. October made a summit “autonomous driving”, and we will support self-driving cars in 2016. We promote talents – this is especially for the boys – and internships. I come to the subject of infrastructure, transport and innovation. We have over €3 billion spent on investment in this area. Thank you very much, Mr Pock. Social democracy stands for investment. We want to invest and we want to invest in the right thing, namely in the freedom of people. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pock.]] When we invest in mobility, we invest in the opportunity and freedom of people to implement their mobility. We also invest in the location. Only economic companies that also have external links can improve their location and growth. We also have €300 million in 2016 – that has already been addressed – for investment in broadband expansion. This is about getting modern technologies into the widths of rural areas. We will also implement this by 2020, 1 billion € we have available for it. 2 billion € we invest in the expansion of the rail. I can say it again clearly: It's not about tunnels, it's about us maintaining the entire rail system. [[Abg. Moser: Just how we pay for it, I want to know at last!]] I was in Lienz a few months ago, that's not in the center of Austria. There I was told, Lienz lives on the fact that it's connected to the South Railway. They were happy that we were now building the Semmering Base Tunnel, because this has made their possibilities better. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I did not believe that people living in Lienz think it is so important that we are now building the Semmering Base Tunnel, now making decisions for the future, and then it will become effective in ten years. These are investments we need. And do you know what the most beautiful thing is? – People support this! Austria has become the railway driver country number one. Why? – We have developed the Westbahn well, we drive from Salzburg to Vienna in 2 hours 22 minutes! [[Abg. Willi: Why does it have fewer trains?]] There we are better than the road, there we are better than the car! We have caused the connection to the airport Vienna-Schwechat. [[Abg. Willi: Because you have not expanded regional traffic!]] With this we connect transport and have created new opportunities for people. This year we will also invest € 1 billion in the expansion of the high-level road system. That's important too! With this, we have also made the connection of Austria to Central and Eastern Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Planning security and responsible economy – this is the foreign exchange I have set myself. It's about having planning security. [[Abg. Moser: The problem is especially the security of financing!]] It is important for the people, for the economy, but, I believe, also for the High House that we say: We can plan these investments, as we continue to develop, because we organize quality, and it is managed responsibly. [[Abg. Moser: We're building debts!]] I'll tell you what's crucial: As measured by other European countries, where investment is often faced with difficulties and problems, since 2007 all major projects in Austria have been carried out according to plan, and we have even achieved some cost support. I am expressly grateful to all project managers who have worked in this field. You've done a great job. We succeeded, for example, at the main station in Vienna, at the Lainzer Tunnel and in many street projects. [[Abg. Moser: Please pay attention to Deimek!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to respond to a few more questions. Mr Deimek, of course Linz-Selzthal is important to me, and this link to Summerau is also very important to me. This is also foreseen in the plan. It's only important to me to point this out. I made my flight charges statements. Mr Willi, don't be angry with me! On Tuesday I was sitting here in Parliament, where the subject of pre-examination law was discussed. There was no word. I was surprised, but it was. The debate is now closed. I say very clearly to you: We have discussed the framework in the Transport Committee, it is open to the public. I think these are great projects available in all the federal states. On the question of the Alpine transit exchange: We did something else. We have said very clearly that we want – and there is the first agreement – to include external costs in the toll. This is actually a call for the Greens to support. We want to take into account the external costs in the toll. They have also been involved in buying barrier-free at the ÖBB. I can tell you, we'll have 101 trains, now also the Rainlet. This is a barrier-free transport. That's important to me. [[Abg. Moser: What? There are three steps!]] [[Abg. Willi: Have you ever got in with a stroller?]] I have responded to Mr Pock's comments. Thank you again, also for your assessment. I was particularly pleased. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pock.]] On Mr Hagen's statement: Milk cow of the nation, that sounds good. I can only tell you that we are trying to find a reasonable relationship to strengthen the car where it is necessary, but also to strengthen public transport. The toll is justified and justified. As far as the tax question is concerned, ask the Minister for Finance! I would also like to thank Mrs Himmelbauer for addressing these issues. I can only share that. One thing is important, Mr Kassager: We have clearly said that we want to increase research expenditure, which is important, and that requires the commitment of industry. I recently joined the railway industry, which invests 9 percent of its turnover in research. They're good at it. Industry invests an average of 7 percent in research. Where you invest in research, the more successful businesses are. I would therefore like to see industrial small and medium-sized enterprises doing a lot in the field of research. I would like to support this and think that we are making a good contribution to this. [[Abg. Brosz: Propos Post: When do we get the documents?]] My focus: The Federal Government's research and technology initiative aims to reach 3.76 percent of GDP. We have developed from 2.76 percent to 3 percent. This is a good sign, because we have to continue, that needs common effort. Finally, one more thing: Mrs Lichtenecker mentioned that I have reduced the funding for the climate and energy funds. That's not true, but it's not true in terms of content. We have turned these funds, which have so far been spent in the Climate and Energy Funds, into other budget items of my ministry, namely € 18 million. Of this, € 9.75 million is spent on intelligent transport systems, which is about logistics. We spent €8 million on promoting the connecting track. You will find that in my budget. Overall, this budget is a budget that secures Austria's economic location for the future. It creates jobs, creates quality of life and contributes to social and regional equality. I would ask you to give this budget your assent.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e49771	Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to add that the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Lichtenecker is sufficiently supported and properly put in place and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e49829	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Däderle. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e49850	Mr President. Minister! High house! Despite short speaking time, it pushes me to two replicas. Mr Hagen, I too live in the West. I always drive by train and experience it as a punctual, comfortable and fast. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on Green MEPs.]] A second replica to colleague Kassinger: I share your opinion that it would be better to sum up the research agendas in a strong ministry. This would bring more impact and more efficiency. Now we have distributed them to three departments or two ministries, a part of which is located in this ministry, which is why I am outside for research. I'm positive about that. I find, as Mr Vice-Chancellor and Dr. Matznetter have said today: In Austria, we are not allowed to talk anything bad and small, there are very positive developments. One is, for example, the development of scientists and researchers from Austria in the new EU research framework programme Horizon 2020. Austria's applications are also substantially supported, moderated and supported by the FFG. Since this programme started in 2014, we have already won almost €200 million and are significantly above the EU average with an approval rate of almost 20 percent. This shows that our researchers in the EU are extremely competitive. As has been said, the support of the FFG is very important here. Of course, it, like the FWF, also needs sufficient resources to finance research projects. The framework she has, and the different formats like COMET or BRIDGE are very good, they are above all a good link to the economy. It is also important that, especially in Austria, we significantly increase the proportion of non-governmental research funding. We are very, very bad internationally, while we are above the average in public funding. In order to promote these shares, we are currently working on a community benefit package, which, for example, is intended to facilitate private foundations and to animated private donors. I appeal to all those who work here – the package has already gone through the Council of Ministers – to create an optimal work here. If it comes to the parliamentary process, I will make a great effort to continue to be very active. I'm sorry. I'm If we do something new – and we have to do something new here in order to be as successful as our neighbours Switzerland or Germany – this must be a good instrument. I'm very sorry that we're really going to have a good package. Then, I believe, we are tapping a source that we have still far too little tapped, namely private funds for research. Then, too, our public budget, which is above the EU average, can continue to grow. I wish that in the sense of a good future for Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e49902	Mrs Gamon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e49923	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! On the subject of research: If you have also looked at the good preparation in the analysis of the budget service, you can see that payments are rising quite much by the year 2015, but then they really stagnate. I don't think that's a good prospect for our research and technology location. As I have mentioned today, I also think it is understandable that in the current situation, of course, you have to look at all corners and ends, that we deal with our money sparingly. But Austria must not lose the connection in this area. As I have also mentioned, after the Innovation Scoreboard, we have become the leader of innovation, rather than the leader of innovation. I think that is already a relatively good indicator that we really have to do something here. We have also asked why the area of action has deteriorated. I find the answer we got very interesting. They have said that other indicators, which are sometimes not anchored in the core tasks of BMVIT, for example the weak equipment with venture capital, have led, among other things, to our becoming innovation followers. I think it's very nice for you to address this. It should also be a goal of the entire government that there is something going on. They can all talk to each other, because in the near future there will also be something about venture capital. We also hope to support your site so that we can obtain the real-economy investment exemption, because it is extremely important, among other things, in this area. After all, you have described the implementation of targeted measures with a strong leverage effect as a goal for your department in order to trigger higher private research investment. I hope that we will launch a number of measures in this Parliament so that more private funds can be available for research and development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e49959	Next speaker: Mrs Hakel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e49981	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen! Digitalization keyword: We have heard it a few times today, the digital transformation is progressing and, of course, is changing our society as well. I pointed out yesterday, in my speech on art and culture, that we have to deal with the challenges we face. Especially for our entrepreneurs, digitalisation is a very important point, it faces new challenges, but also brings opportunities and new opportunities. But all of this does not help if there is no good broadband development. And unfortunately, we are still in the past, although we are already writing the year 2015. The digital divide between the city and the country, between the old and the young, is still present. It must therefore be rapidly overcome in order to provide the same opportunities for all people in the information society. I am of course pleased that Mr Stöger, the Federal Minister, has finally addressed this story and is moving forward and is planning to return €300 million from the broadband billion next year in order to expand it. Citizens use the Internet and the services, they make online banking; E-mail services, timetable surveys, income tax returns, official routes – everything is only happening on the Internet. Especially the rural regions, as well as entrepreneurs who are to settle there, are clearly disadvantaged. I have just mentioned online roadmap surveys, and this leads me to colleague Hagen. I just explained this. But obviously this has not yet arrived in your mind that the train is already very good on the Westbahn. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hagen.]] I'm from the Styria, the southern route is not so well developed. But the train runs between Vienna – Innsbruck for a good 4 hours 20 minutes, so that's no time at all, to Bregenz you drive about 6 hours 30 minutes. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Hagen]] If you travel to the Styria to the Enns Valley, you are still on the road for 3 hours 30 minutes or 3 hours 40 minutes, so this is already a clear improvement of the western route. Since I'm just a steirer and I'm very much on the train, I'm all the more pleased that the Semmering base tunnel is finally being built, that there was the tunnel attack last week. I remember very well: In October 1998, I came to Vienna and started working in federal politics. One of my first actions was at the time to demonstrate in Hospital am Semmering for the construction of the Semmering Tunnel, namely to point out how necessary it is. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Rädler and Mr Hagen.]] Now he's finally coming. Thank you, Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e50044	The next item is the report by Mr Hafenecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e50089	Mr President. Mr Stöger and Mr Schelling! At the beginning of my speech, I refer to the revenue of the Asfinag, including the surplus revenue by the Vignette, whose price has been increased by 1.5 percent, the truck toll by 1 percent. On the basis of 2014 we therefore have additional income of around € 19 million. It is right, there are investments, but, Mr Minister, there are still very, very many stepchildren. I only bring three examples: On the one hand, nothing has gone further in the construction of the S 34. The S 34 should actually be called S 43, because we've been talking about it for so many years. Even when connecting the S 5 at Jettsdorf to Krems, nothing is done, although it was actually promised that this will be done as soon as possible. There are no initiatives either with regard to a Waldviertler motorway, which we repeatedly demand from the liberals. I think it is high time we also signaled to the citizens in the forest district that they are not second-class citizens. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Stepchildren, my dear ones Ladies and gentlemen, there is also public transport. A recent report has been published in the “Kurier” in which the Probahn initiative has shown that in the Burgenland one invests 75 € per capita in the upcoming investment for the railway, while in the rest of the federal territory one invests 6 000 € per head. Here too: The people of southern Burgenland are thus declared second-class citizens. Mr. Minister, there is a real need for action. You said last night that Austria was the railway driver country number one. - I just can't understand that. You know it: 28 secondary trains were taken over by the state of Lower Austria in 2010. At that time, Mr Pröll was celebrating as a savior of the railways to lock 26 of these trains shortly thereafter. I don't know where the people are going with the railways you keep trying here. [[Mr Rädler and Mr Schmuckenschlager.]] So the whole thing has been passed on to the NÖVOG. [[Abg. Wheeler:... blue plans!]] – Mr Rädler, you know what the NÖVOG is doing now! – [[Interlocutory calls to representatives of ÖVP and FPÖ.]] The NÖVOG is now abandoning these railways to the communities, it depends on them – along with the preservation of the entire buildings that hang on them – with a risk whose extent one does not even know how, as it looks with the property, whether they are contaminated and so on. So it is up to the local citizens who, with their canal, water and garbage charges, can still finance this political scrap, which is being made in Lower Austria. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this morning I was awakened by the firemen in my hometown of Kaumberg. Every year, when winter breaks in, there are difficulties on the court mountain and trucks remain hanging. But that wasn't what shocked me. – By the way, I would like to thank the forces of police, fire brigade and street champions who have done this well again this year. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] So I was not shocked by the fire brigade sire, but by a young guy who at the time – he lives right at Bundesstraße 18 – passed through the snowmach with his moped and had to cross the court mountain to reach his job in Hainfeld. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this guy has to drive the moped because the railway line across the court mountain has been stopped. Just ten years ago, he could've been on the train. Today, you have to say, he's almost risking his life. As a family father, I really don't feel comfortable with such a thing when I have to watch it. You see, a serious mistake was made here. As I have already mentioned, the NÖVOG now hangs these routes around the communities and says that they are to have a symbolic euro. Mr. Federal Minister, here is my appeal to you: It is very urgent to reverse the mistakes that were made at the time. The FPÖ will participate here. Mr Federal Minister, I brought you a euro here, and I would like to hand it over to you now. [[The speaker is handing over € 1 to Federal Minister Stäger.]] [[Cheerfulness of the Federal Minister Stöger.]] Please invest this euro in the purchase back of this railway line so you do not have to resort to reserves. I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I really call on you to accept this request. This stupidity, which has been committed here, is to be reversed. And if you vote against this request, then go to bed with the conscience that triggers the thought of the guys who were driven to work by the snowmach this morning.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e50195	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place, and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e50262	Mr Heinzl spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e50297	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Col. Hafenecker claimed that the project of the S 34 – this is the planned road stretch of 9.8 km from St. Pölten into the Traisental – goes nothing further. I can reassure my colleague Hafenecker: On the contrary, it is true that the environmental impact assessment process is currently under way in this planned road section and that there is nothing in the way of the start of the construction of 2017. [[Abg. Hafenecker: How long!]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e50346	The next item is the speech by Mr Singer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e50368	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mr Hafenecker, there is no railway in my home community, there has never been one, and the apprentices in my home community have in the past gone to work with the Moped and will probably have to do so in the future. [[Interlocutory calls to representatives of ÖVP and FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to focus on broadband in my speech, because this is a very, very important infrastructure measure, especially for rural areas. The Internet divide between city and country must be closed. I should like to follow up with Mr Hakel's statement, which has already referred to this aspect. The lack of supply of high-speed Internet should not lead to any disadvantage in rural areas. The attractiveness of rural areas also depends very much on the supply of high-speed Internet in the future. The compatibility of family and work, job opportunities, especially the possibility of home office, which of course represents an essential opportunity for rural areas, women's jobs and so on depend on the quality of the Internet in the future. You have to say clearly: A slow internet means a huge disadvantage for rural people. The development of high-speed broadband is therefore an existential issue for rural areas, a great opportunity also for the domestic economy and thus for the workplace. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The funds are estimated, Mr. Federal Minister. But everything needs to be done so that they can easily be picked up so that they can also be effective. The expansion of the high-speed Internet is just as important to me as all other infrastructure measures. Let us see that we are also becoming European leaders in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e50417	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Walser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e50438	Mr President. Estimated Minister! High house! We are discussing the transport chapter, and I would like to comment briefly on the debate that has taken place here on the extension of the West Railway. Mr Hakel, you voted in favour of the expansion and state of development. It is true, Minister: Praise from the green side: It has done a lot between Vienna and Salzburg. Driving time has been significantly reduced in recent years, decades. Today you drive from Vienna to Salzburg in 2 hours 22 minutes. However, the Westbahn does not end in Salzburg, it continues. She goes to Tyrol, she goes to Vorarlberg, and it looks much worse, Mrs Hakel and Mr Stöger. I picked it out. The emperor needed 5 hours of 8 minutes on his last trip from Salzburg to Vienna. I've already said it: The time has been more than halved, in the meantime you drive this route in 2 hours 22 minutes. If you look at the trip from Salzburg to Bregenz and vice versa, I have to say that unfortunately it does not look so good. An example: Over a quarter of a century ago, the symphonic from Bregenz to Salzburg needed 4 hours and 9 minutes. You're surprised to see the current journey time of the Rainlet: If you drive away at lunch, drive 4 hours 23 minutes. We need longer today. The fastest Rainjet – but you have to get into Bregenz at 5.47 in the morning – runs 4 hours and 16 minutes; it is also much slower than the symphonic. I believe that this shows very clearly that there is a great need for re-examination, Mr Minister. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hell.]] There are many slow rides. The route is also susceptible to disturbance. The roadmap is not always respected, and I think you should invest in small sections. Mr Minister, you know what is going on now, we have already discussed this in the Transport Committee. For example, it is a relatively small investment in the area of the Walgau or the Klostertal, the route from Bludenz towards Braz, the so-called Klosterbogen, which was in it for a long time in the target network 2025 and has now been deleted. In the Committee you said that the state government was informed. I asked you again: It wasn't like that. So if we invest, please do not invest in huge large projects, whose benefits – the Semmering Base Tunnel keyword, the Jörg-Haider Memorial Tunnel keyword, so the Koralm Tunnel, between the Styria and Carinthia, giant projects, billions of projects – whose traffic policy efficiency is anything but clear. [[Abg. Darmann: You have no plan at all!]] There are projects that would be significantly more employment-intensive, smaller projects and projects that would benefit the population also in the west of Austria. I remember the range from Kufstein to Bregenz: There are twelve district capitals right on the road, and there are over 900,000 people, almost one million, living in this area. There would be an overdue investment. Please look at our ideas and look at the former 2025 target network! There was a lot in there, which is unfortunately not in it anymore.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e50487	The next item is the speech by Mr Lipitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e50508	Mr President. Mr Stöger and Mr Schelling! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Walser, you know that, when we leave Austria from the West, we drive 150 kilometres on the German federal territory, where the expansion measures are not so present. In the Unterinntal, we are therefore investing and expanding, but we cannot do so on the German railway line. [[Abg. Moser: Yes, this is also a problem...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walser.]] One thing I have to say: for 600 kilometers just over six hours. Mr Hagen, please, if you are driving by car, take the breaks as well, because then you will come to the conclusion that you need longer by car than by train. I just wanted to say that. Mr Stöger, you are actually not so wrong. Mr Pock said earlier that we do not really need the infrastructure to that extent. Mr Hagen said it had to go faster and expand more. I think you are a minister with a great deal of attention, just the middle way is the right one. As a result, investment needs to be invested, as investment is planned for decades. [[Abg. Moser: Yes, but what a sense!]] It has also been mentioned, Mr Hell has said it. I just remember when the West Railway started to drive around the tracks: 1980 planned, implemented today, and we can drive it, and other providers can drive it and get their tracks. I think we have to think here in decades. I am certainly not the defender of the Freedom Party, but I would like to say one thing to Mr Walser, who spoke of the "Haider Memorial Tunnel": In Carinthia and Styria, the economy and the population were clear and clear that this expansion is taking place in order to connect Carinthia and Styria. I'm not your defender, but that's the truth behind it. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Jewel beater.]] Thank you, Minister, for going this way that you invest accordingly, because these are jobs. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Moser.]] I would also like to say one thing: Mr Hell said that 1 800 apprentices are employed by the Austrian Federal Railways. These are much, much more than the Austrian Federal Railways themselves can need. We are making up for the economy, because the economy is increasingly moving in this direction. We are training excellent workers in the field of ÖBB, which will then also be used in the economy. Thank you, Minister, for providing the necessary resources!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e50576	Next speaker: Mr Angerer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e50598	Mr President. Minister of Transport Stöger! Minister of Finance Schelling! Mr Verkehrsminister, you just told a nice story, namely that you were in Lienz and that people were alerted to the fact that the expansion of the South Railway will have a positive impact on the economy in the East. So if this helps you to recognize trans-European traffic routes as economically positive developments and recognize this in Lienz, please drive to Lienz more often. And please also take Mr Walser with you so that he may finally realize what such routes, such trans-European networks can bring economically. Then he no longer lives in the past, but perhaps also in the future. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walser.]] I would like to say a few words on the topic of trans-European networks: Transport networks, and this has always been the case in history, are economic transport routes and bring economic impulses, which must also be used accordingly. It not only helps to build these routes, but also needs to be put in place additional measures so that the economy can also benefit from them. I do not assume that you will once again reinvigorate your budget, Minister, but you may not only be able to use the funds efficiently, but also effectively. I think that's what it's all about. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would like to give a few examples of how this would be possible: You know – it's also on your homepage – that these EU TEN-T guidelines provide €13 billion in the years 2014 to 2020. 40 percent of these can be read for projects so criticised by Mr Walser, for the Semmering Base Tunnel and the Koralm Tunnel, i.e. for the extension of the South Railway. Once again, this money is to be collected in the EU and used here. Other transport axes are, of course, the Brenner and the Danube axis, which is inside the guideline. It also applies to the future transport axes now and to see that they enter into these trans-European lines. This is about the Tauern- and the Pyrn axis. In my opinion, to initiate and build economic transport infrastructure on this route – and we have already talked about it in the Committee, Minister – is a very essential point and there are projects that are ready for construction, which have also been developed by Carinthia. Fürnitz, for example, has always been an interface in traffic, there is a fixed, projected and approved Cargo Terminal, and I hope – and I have She has already asked in the Committee on this matter – that you take up this project. We shall therefore put forward a motion for a resolution on this project. [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr Finanzminister, this would also be a good opportunity to do something positive for a federal country that you are neglecting to do and not hang around billions who are responsible for your predecessors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e50671	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place, and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e50760	Next speaker: Member of the Council of Ministers of the European Communities. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e50781	Mr President. Mr. Minister! I can also briefly report on digitalisation, I believe, one of the most important infrastructure investments in the future ahead of us. We have had 2 billion € in revenues from the 2013 radio frequency auctions in the Federal Budget, which we agreed to use 1 billion to expand the broadband internet in rural areas. This is now gradually being implemented by the Ministry. So far, so good. The problem is, we currently have two models in place. One is an economic gap model and the other one an operator model. In the economic gap model, existing providers are supported to develop the network, especially in structurally weaker regions. It can only be seen that these suppliers are mainly not infrastructure investors, but Telekom investors, who are mainly foreign stock investment investors, and therefore the interest in the infrastructure in Austria is very low. We use the money from the broadband billion to improve Group results, but not the infrastructure in Austria. It is also seen that the investments are mainly carried out in agglomerations. Therefore, the second model, the operator model, is to prefer a lot, and there, too, the use of this infrastructure should ultimately benefit the general public. If we are aware that we could invest these billions in infrastructure together with the countries and communities, perhaps other infrastructure co-operations with existing operators, as we are currently implementing them in large parts of Lower Austria into five pilot projects, then We believe that we can generate a value for the communities, call out network operators and ultimately generate a national added value for the Republic through these charges from this one billion tax money. In the end, the income will benefit the municipalities and thus the Austrian population and not Mexican or other investors. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The total volume should be increased to €5 billion. This is thought of by experts, and I also believe that if we look at the €40 billion pre-load for investment in infrastructure in rail and rail, the €5 billion is a small part, and we do not have to heat everything in the chimney of the ÖBB locomotives, but could pave the way to the future. Together with the countries and communities, it is important to work on a sustainable basis for future generations in order not to throw Austrian tax money into the throats of international investor groups.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e50835	Mrs Maurer is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e50857	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We are located in the research part of the Ministry of Infrastructure, where the Council of Research and Technology Development is also supervised. This Council writes a very good report every year, in which similar things are inside each year, especially... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] [[Abg. Hagen: No more speaking time, the wheeler! You've already used your speaking time with intermediate calls!]] - Maybe you'll let me talk to you, Mr. Rädler. Maybe you'll try to be quiet for some time. So: The Research and Technology Development Council issues a report each year, where it assesses the funding of research in Austria, and there is again a central point every time, namely that basic research is too low in comparison to applied research that is close to the company – please be quiet now! [[Abg. Rädler: There we are already...!]] So I mean, that's really a...
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e50903	Ladies and gentlemen, intervening calls are quite possible, and it has not been so long that it is really disturbing. – Please, continue your speech!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e50918	Yeah, I'd like to talk so much that I can focus on what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e50936	Ladies and gentlemen, you cannot expect there to be no intermediate calls in a speech. Unfortunately, this is not possible. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e50955	Well, I'll try again. [[New calls.]] For example, Mr President. [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Maybe for a little rest in the hall?- Oh, my God!]] We know that basic research is highly subdivided in comparison to applied research and in comparison to business research in Austria. The main focus of basic research is the UG 31 in the Ministry of Science. Applied research is with you, Minister Stöger, in the Ministry of Infrastructure, and the relationship is quite different from the international one, two thirds applied, one third basic research. We know that the FWF is in principle facing major financing problems, and the allocation rate will fall over the next few years. However, I would like to address another aspect that is currently in your ministry, for which there is too little resources from my point of view. [[Abg. Wheelers: Too little resources everywhere! A whore!]] This is precisely the intermediate area, the so-called translational research, i.e. that research, which produces basic research results in such a way that they can be prepared for applications, i.e. at this interface. There should be much more money available for this than for the purely business-oriented research, which is a large part of which is yours, and the research premium, my colleague Ruperta Lichtenecker, has already addressed this today. It is still not clear to what extent science benefits from this premium. It is better to benefit companies in the first place, and not research and science. I would like to tell you this: in this area of translational research, perhaps to finance a programme like that of the FWF in the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e51016	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Unterrainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e51038	I find it relatively exciting when Mr Hagen, as representative of the driving party, talks about almost foreign transport, namely rail transport, but you see... [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Abg. Schimanek: He was good!]] – I also have to say something about this as a Tyrolean: It's quite interesting how the train is being bullied there, how long it needs to go to Vorarlberg. The 300-kilometre Vienna–Salzburg line lasts about 2 hours and 22 minutes, and from Salzburg to Innsbruck, about 200 kilometres, we also need almost 2 hours. This is simply the Deutsche Bahn, because the Austrian Bahn can't do anything for it; just so much for it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hagen]] We would be much faster so that you could make a car move, that you could also drive by car to Vorarlberg. But now back to the 2016 budget. A short question: What do the Großglockner Hochalpenstraße and the Wiener Höhenstraße have in common? [[Inter-call]] – I only have 2 minutes of speaking time. [[Abg. Moser: Speak faster!]] – Simple: The Großglockner Hochalpenstraße and Wiener Höhenstraße are infrastructure projects that, after the great depression, brought back investment and effectively combat mass unemployment at that time. We don't do it any differently today. When I look at Tyrol: The Brenner base tunnel, which will be 55 kilometres of the world's second-ever tunnel, means nothing but that Tyrol and South Tyrol, actually Austria and Italy, are connected to each other on the shortest path through the rail and the Inntal and the Wipptal are freed from freight traffic, thereby promoting health and sustainable development. [[Abg. Moser: But there were no tunnels back then!]] We do all of this, although we are in an economic crisis and despite the hypo-Alpe-Adria. [[Abg. Schimanek: Well, not again!]] – Carmen, I've been waiting for you to say that. I didn't mean to say it, but that's a keyword that fits: Hypo Alpe-Adria – to account for this is the FPÖ, namely your colleagues in Carinthia. We've heard today that we could really invest more. [[New call of the abg. Schimanek.]] The billions we lack, the backpack we carry, you have caused it in Carinthia, namely the hypo-alpe-Adria plea. So much for it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Darmann: Ask your head of state, Peter Kaiser!]] I would like to point out that in the 2016 budget, €300 million will be invested in broadband development, so that rural areas will also be connected to the Internet motorway, and this investment will benefit the rural population in particular. Overall, I would consider the entire package, the entire budget 2016 as a success, a compact budget, especially as regards the areas of transport and innovation, and under the prevailing framework conditions, I must say: actually an impeccable performance. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e51157	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Schellenbacher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e51179	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Mr Verkehrsminister! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens and on the gallery! ==References== Speakers on this budget chapter have not been very much left of my originally planned speech. I'm going to pick out a few scumbags, of which I think they're worth mentioning. Mr. Minister of Finance! Mr Verkehrsminister! There is a situation that we have looked at at the ASFINAG several times. ASFINAG currently owes € 11.7 billion. This will be set up to 13 billion by 2020, and then the debt will start. Within 20 years, by 2040, the ASFINAG is expected to be debt-debt. At the same time, profits of € 45 million are distributed. I don't understand. Furthermore, Mr Minister, there is a problem with forgiveness. They have addressed the investments: 2015: 1 billion, 2016: 1.1 billion, a total of 3 billion investments. And from my point of view, these investments will be carried out exclusively in the wake of large companies, companies and construction companies, because SMEs and companies have to work as subcontractors. It is necessary to do much more about it, so that it is possible that small projects, which are economically viable for SMEs, will actually come into operation. Therefore, my request in this context: Tax against, then these investments will actually be investments in the smallest, small and medium-sized enterprises. And that really gives the economy life. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would also like to talk about savings potential. I asked you at the last committee meeting about operator models – without success. You have told me that operator models are not requested on the market, and therefore there will no longer be any operator models here in the future. I'd like to tell you that I even believe you. Only if the operator models, the regions are not attractive enough so that they are reasonable for the private sector, then there will be no more operator models. But my request is: If you may still choose regions that can also be economically profitable, then there will be these operator models. And when you divide that into divisions – I think about it: Illumination projects are being launched in neighbouring countries. The switch to LED in tunnels and on the free line cke could also be lucrative for ASFINAG and for private companies. That is why I ask you to do something in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e51227	Next speaker: Mr Eßl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e51248	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to talk about infrastructure. First point: Road infrastructure. As a Salzburg MP, I can thank you for the speedy implementation of the environmental measure in Zederhaus along the Tauern motorway. However, I hope that all other environmental and road renovation measures in Salzburg will also be implemented as planned and as quickly as possible. Second point: Path. The OBB Framework Plan 2016 to 2021 is available to us. € 14.6 billion will be invested in this period. Unfortunately, no improvements are planned in Salzburg. Of course, Salzburg would also like to see, for example, the extension of the NAVIS-Nordostasse S2 with well-known projects in Seekirchen, the extension of the railway tunnel chain at the Lueg-Sgestenwald Pass, the key to disaster protection, the key to driving time reduction, the creation of an S-Bahn in the Pinzgau between Bruck and Saalfelden, or the extension of the local railway to the Hellbrunn Bridge with superior importance, which I believe would be quite appropriate there. Third point: broadband development. We have 300 million for 2016 and 1 billion by 2020 in the plan. I would like to focus on rural areas. We also need a comprehensive supply of high-performance broadband in order to secure jobs in a sustainable way. I thank you now for You're trying, Minister of State!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e51286	I call Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e51307	Mr President. Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! For transport, innovation and technology, subgroup 41, €3.83 billion is estimated. This is an increase of €481.4 million compared to 2015. More budget resources for expanding infrastructure are a good approach, Minister. Broadband development, which we have just heard from Mr Eßl, is set at €300 million in 2016 – also very important. It is also very important, Mr Minister, that we should not forget the narrowing point at the Lueg Pass in Salzburg, which Mr Eßl has just mentioned. I would still have a request, Minister: If you come to Salzburg again, could you please tell the Green Councillor that this decree, the eighties on the six-track city highway, will be repealed? Because this is just a shock for the drivers, for many people who have to go to work on this road. This Regulation, concerning 80 km/h, does not apply at all. This is a six-track highway, ladies and gentlemen, and as you drive 80 km/h, that is a dangerous source – and nothing else. We don't need that! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e51346	I call Mr Keck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e51367	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Investing, researching, saving – so could be the key statement for this budget available to the Ministry of Infrastructure next year. In times of continuing economic uncertainty, it is certainly not an easy task to make targeted and sustainable investments and savings in a sector. On the other hand, the Ministry of Infrastructure has a very special, important position, I would even say a key position. Investments in our infrastructure are investments in the future and also secure our economic location. It is therefore perfectly right that our Minister, Alois Stöger, has focused on investment and has not simply passed over it with the savings fund in his department, because this enables us to directly ensure employment, so that we can immediately do something against unemployment and take measures that will also strengthen us in the future. I would therefore like to mention positively the massive expansion of infrastructure investment in the Austrian Federal Railways. Investments of around €14.6 billion will be made in the framework for the years 2016 to 2021. And this is not only about improving mobility, ladies and gentlemen, but also about contributing to the achievement of climate objectives. The ÖBB is an important factor in creating CO2 reductions in transport, not limiting the mobility of citizens, but even extending them – on the contrary. The broadband initiative will also be continued and driven forward in 2016. A total investment volume of € 1 billion is achieved. The tasks have been done well, and I think that with this good budget under such difficult circumstances, Mr Stöger has shown an awareness of the future, and it is to be thanked for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e51407	Next speaker: Mr Rädler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e51439	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! We have heard that the greens have it so in themselves to love the trees and the forest, to yell into the forest, and then expect that no echo comes from these spaces. But there are calls, Mrs Maurer. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lightenecker.]] I'm allowed to hold on to the budget of one: The financial framework plan in the field of the ÖBB by 2021 secures us, and this is very important for our region, the expansion of the South Railway and, of course, the West Railway. The four-track expansion is very important for the location Austria, for its economic location. For us mayors, the financing of the security of railway crossings is important – there is always a terrible accident – but also accessibility. I would nevertheless like to tell Mr Hafenecker – the speaking time is very short – about NÖVOG: Yeah, I know it's always too little, we've heard that today. Yesterday we were 2 billion overcrowding with the demands, today we are already at 3 billion. The NÖVOG provides 30 million in Lower Austria each year for the routes we have purchased. [[President Bures takes over the presidency again.]] I am now bringing you an example from my region – the efficiency increase would be the most important thing: 20 years ago the NÖVOG took over the Schneebergbahn. [[Interlocutory calls from Deimek and Hafenecker.]] At that time, the snowberg railway was abandoned by the ÖBB – with 43 employees. She was no longer to lead, she should be hired. Today, the Snowberg Railway has 21 employees and has transported 170 000 passengers in this year – although it is not over – that is an increase of 20 percent. This would certainly have been achieved by increasing efficiency by the ÖBB.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e51502	The next item is Mrs Yilmaz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e51524	Madam President. The Federal Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! In the context of the research promotion of production processes, a large part is used for research in Industry 4.0. It has also succeeded in setting up a research factory in this area together with the Technical University of Vienna. The Foundation Professorships for Industry 4.0 has already mentioned Minister Stöger. Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to say that Mr Stöger, Federal Minister, responded very quickly to the change in production processes and that I am very glad that not only the new production method will be further developed, but also social and social impacts of this computer-based technology will be researched in a sustainable way. Of course, it is important that the Ministry of Research's budget resources are long-term secured. 3.76% of gross domestic product remains the target. We're on the right track. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e51554	The next item is the speech by Mr Grillitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e51575	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! As a steirer and one who comes from the south of Austria, the large investments in large infrastructure projects such as Koralm Tunnel and Semmering Base Tunnel must be recorded as positive. This is just too vital for this region and an hour's commandment so that this economic area can also meet the future challenges accordingly. I would really like to thank you for your commitment to the fact that at EU level we have also been able to set aside funds from Brussels for this important economic area and for this gap between the link to the south. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! In Austria, however, we still have an essential topic to discuss: We're always talking about runaway. From the rural regions, people migrate and move to the cities. But there is, I have to say, not only a country flight, but there is already something like a longing for land today. People also want to go to the country. People don't just want to enjoy more recreation there, but people want to work there too. to be at home and at home. They want to be at home where others like to go on vacation. Therefore, I believe that the key technology for these rural areas is absolutely broadband technology. The rural area has the same claim as the city to be connected accordingly to new data highways – in the same speed and speed as is possible in the city, Mr. Federal Minister. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have to ensure that we have this at our disposal as quickly as possible, because it has an effect – I know from experience – for example, if there were no IBS in the Murau district, there would be no KLH in wood processing if they did not have the appropriate broadband internet on site there. In this area, however, there are around 1 000 jobs – employment, income and purchasing power on the ground, which is value added in the regions. That's what we want for the future. I expect you, Federal Minister, to support this fairness in rural areas as well.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e51621	Next item is the report by Mr Antoni. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e51642	Thank you very much, Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! I too would like to focus very briefly on UG 34, the field of research – innovation and technology – but especially space research and space technology. As already mentioned, in this sub-division, the research transfers in 2016 remain largely identical to the Federal Estimate for 2015. The international priorities of this sub-division include, among other things, the mandatory and electoral programmes of the European Space Agency, ESA, for the development and investment of state-of-the-art infrastructure and its application in the form of corresponding services. Space research and space technology now have an important role to play in Austria. Since the calendar year 2014, BMVIT has also been known to be the Ministry of Space. Currently, more than 100 companies and organisations with around 1,000 employees are active in space research and technology. BMVIT provides around €69 million annually for activities in this area, which naturally benefits Austrian industry. For example, the Austrian contribution to the development of the new European Ariane-6 carrier rocket has been increased from around € 1 million to around € 26.2 million this year. This will also allow local companies to participate in this future project. Calculations indicate that for the entire duration of the use of the carrier rockets, Ariane 6 is expected to be a follow-up of production revenues in the order of about half a billion euros. There are also substantial initiatives beyond the carrier rocket Ariane 6. This includes, for example, a founding center for space technologies. The preparation of a space education facility in Austria is another initiative that I like very well. I think it is a very important initiative to bring space into schools and thus bring our young people closer to technology and natural sciences. An invitation to tender was also launched in the national space programme ASAP, which is donated with approximately €7.5 million. All in all, it can be said that these future projects are certainly to be welcomed, as the investments made through contracts and participations return to Austrian companies and organisations. Finally, This initiative strengthens the high-tech domestic economy. – Minister, thank you for your efforts!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e51684	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Hanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e51706	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! A brief replica on the comments of Mr Hafenecker – he has left the hall in the meantime – on the topic of secondary lanes. Every human being, who is thinking only economically reasonablely, knows that not all the secondary lanes are durable. In my region, there was also a detour closed. With the same use of resources, we have quadrupled public transport, and the railway route is now a cycle path that is x times more frequented than before. I believe that these things need a very differentiated view. However, I would also like to comment briefly on the topic of high-performance Internet for Austria. There are here in the house of Konsens that it is enormously important for the regions. I believe, however, that the key question to be answered is how we manage to get the money through the funding programmes where it is necessary. There is also criticism of the Federal Ministry, which I personally see very differentiated. I believe that a lot of things will be done very well. For example, the first step has been to create a funding map – for all those who want to know where there are areas in Austria that can be funded and where there is no such map. For this purpose, a 100-fold-100-metre grid has been set up to distinguish clearly which areas of the market are expanding and which areas of the market are not expanding, which then need the support of the public sector. In my opinion, the promotion approach in the first call to set accents with the co-adjustment premium is also a good one. We know that the major cost factors in broadband development are those of civil engineering. If we have projects in Austria that are already under construction, and if we are able to set up funding programmes and then take advantage of these construction projects, I think this is a very successful approach. So there is a lot of good, and the first projects are announced. I am also proud that four projects have been submitted from my district alone. In a first feedback we have heard that these projects have high quality. We are looking forward to a supplement that could take place in the next few weeks. I would like to add another aspect that is very important. The crucial question is: At what prices is what range offered on the market? You need to discuss this intensively. An example of this is Waidhofen at the Ybbs – my neighboring community – where three federal schools want a connection to the high-performance Internet. They have fiberglass in the basement, but there is no competition there. That means that they then got an offer from the provider. You actually need to synchronize 100 Mbits per second in both directions, because there up to 1,500 students want to go to the Internet at the same time. If you only have one provider – I really want to say that this one has tried very hard and one could also bring about a solution – then simply the prices are not the ones you need. My request, my call or my appeal is that we look to all the programs that will come in the future – access promotion, backhaul support – that competition is also ensured in order to ensure that all Austrian broadband internets can really have a competitive environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e51757	The next item is the report by Mr Ing. Vogl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e51778	I would like to address the subject of research premium in my speech today. We will increase the research premium from 10 to 12 percent. Of course, I understand all those who say that we need to invest more in basic research. I can say, of course, from my point of view, that I come from a company in which research is being conducted and show how important this research premium is. Now there is the criticism that we are distributing the funds so to speak, as with an old snow cannon, which is not very targeted. I don't think so. We did it in Steyr. Steyr is now a city in which many foreign investors sit and, of course, are in competition with other development sites. The Steyr development site is compared to Munich, also with Turkey and other locations. This research premium is an essential contribution to a positive impact on this comparison of locations for us. We have succeeded in the fact that BMW now employs 1,000 employees in research and development. They are active because they do good work, but, so to speak, one of the instruments that makes this location even possible is this promotion. In my opinion, one should not overlook this effect that is present here – especially for international corporations. It is also important to mention the following because the criticism will come that we are doing this for international companies: I believe that even for local investors who have development departments, it is often much less questionable whether they are going abroad with their development team, but rather the question of what can be developed. We all know that the financial resources of the companies are not always such that we can afford any development we might like to trigger. This premium can make a significant contribution to the development of more, to research and to the risk that companies may also take risks, since not every development automatically leads to a market maturity. However, this approach to risk is important, because only in this way can we guarantee that the developments, the good ideas there are in our country, and these good developers and researchers are there. One must not overlook, Austria is really a country – one has to look for a similar situation in another country – which has a distinct culture of people who are interested in research and development. We manage with this premium that those have a chance to actually carry out their tasks in the sense that we can generate jobs with them.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e51816	Mrs Dipl.-Kffr.Pfurtscheller is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e51840	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, even in front of the screens! In my short speaking time, I would like to comment on the speeches by the Greens and the NEOS. Unfortunately, almost all the ladies and gentlemen who spoke earlier are no longer in the hall. Now, Mr. Walser enters the hall – I am glad to see that – and he will do it. Both parties see the large tunnels in Austria very critical. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hanger.]] I can follow their argument in part. I also come from the rural area, I come from Western Austria, from West Tyrol, which is adjacent to Vorarlberg, and I understand. It is no different to us that we would like some investment in rural areas too. If I personally wish to address a request to the Minister – actually two – then I would like to have the Tschirgant tunnel and the expansion of the external railway. However, I am also a business administrator and I know that there is always a critical mass of people to be taken into account in investment decisions. In times of scarce budgets, it is sometimes not that easy. That is why I also understand and would like to offer the previous speakers from the NEOS and the Greens another aspect of discussion: We must not forget that these three tunnels – especially the Brenner base tunnel – are simply incredibly important for the whole of the European Union, for all European states, especially, of course, for our neighbours. For example, the Brenner Base Tunnel is also strongly supported by the EU. We are all supporters of the EU, we are all in favour of free movement of goods and travel, and we all want to do something good for Austria's economic location. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schimanek]] For this reason, I think, these tunnels are also very important and still acceptable. My speaking time is over, I quit. I would have liked to say something to Mr Deimek, but that is what I tell him privately. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e51903	The next item is the speech by Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e51925	Madam President! Mr. Infrastructural Minister! Mr Finanzminister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values Watchers on the gallery and in front of the TV sets! In this chapter on transport, innovation, research and technology, very important issues have already been addressed by the previous speakers. Mr Vogl mentioned the innovation at BMW. I think that the fairness should now also be called the Voest, the FACC, the STIWA and many other locations in Upper Austria and at the Austrian economic location. In the area of flood protection, which was addressed by a previous speaker and is, of course, also located in the Ministry of Infrastructure, apart from the protection buildings, one must keep close to the operator regulations – we have had highly affected areas in Upper Austria – and keep the storage spaces open. The unkind that the sediments are left there, of course, leads to scarcity and a larger flood surface in a serious case. I now also mention the issue of debureaucratisation as an up-to-date example: If today a dealer or a farmer invests in a used tractor of the famous brand Fendt from Germany, then he must be in Austria, although this vehicle A valid TÜV board was provided in Germany, with a valid approval plate and a numbering plate – in 2015, in times of the EU – for individual approval by the national audit authority. In my opinion, there is a need for action. There is still enormous potential for savings. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team as well as the Deputies Doppler and Gerhard Schmid.]] The drivers have already been addressed today. I think a lot of people in the country depend on the car. Many workers need their car to get to the workplace, as well as a lot of families. Mr Hagen has already mentioned that the engine-related insurance tax has been increased by 40 percent over the last ten years. But with the contemporary casho there is a huge potential for savings compared to our German neighbours, for example. Ladies and gentlemen! Currently, it is practice that if someone acquires a five-year-old car with a list price of €60,000, but has a current real-time purchase price of €19,000 according to Eurotax list, he must pay the premium for €60,000. This is why there is a huge potential for savings because, in the event of damage, he gets only the €19 000 replaced by the insurance. In this sense, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] We're asking for approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e52001	The motion for a resolution just referred to is properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e52052	Mr Stöger, Federal Minister, is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e52074	Madam President. Dear Minister of Finance! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to answer a few things, for example, the statement by the honourable Member, who has clearly said that we are good at public research, in private research, we could make even more of it together. This is an invitation to companies to invest more in research. I think this is an important step. The FFG supports all these measures very intensively when it comes to getting venture capital. The Austrian Federal Government has now submitted some proposals to Parliament or has also partly decided to go in this direction. I think the Federal Government is working in this field. Member of the Hafenecker, on the question of Lower Austria: Of course, every task of a field is always a problem. That's where you have to deal with eye-sizes. I ask the question of Lower Austria to be addressed to the Landtag. I believe it is important that we offer good public infrastructure and provide a reasonable system of rail, buses and other public transport. In general, I would like to point out the following: We have clearly said which households are not provided, and we have divided the regions in this way: households supplied in proportion to non-dwelling households. That's how we want to use the broadband billions. This is currently with the European Commission. I expect the next few days to be approved. Then we want to go into implementation immediately. We have implemented some railway projects. To Angerer Member: Fürnitz we like to discuss if there is a need there. We currently have capacity in Villach, but if they are full, we want to implement all these measures here. To the Member of Parliament Jewellery: I think digitization is very important. It is not about putting the money in the throats of foreign investors at the broadband billion. By the way, I wasn't the one who sold Deutsche Telekom. I still think it is important that we also enter Austrian capital at Telekom It has clearly stated that it also wants to support these broadband billions. I hope – and I also ask the Minister of Finance to participate – that the investments will also come from this public enterprise. The question: Basic research too little or too much? – I think we need a total of research. If you want, I say now, business research, you also need basic research. I have now also invested in basic research, for example by supporting the professorship of the Foundation. Operator model: You have to expect that, you can see it. We didn't necessarily have the best experiences in the street. Mr Eßl: It is true that this time there is not so much in Salzburg. But when you look at what you've been talking about in the last period of Salzburg – expansion of the station: 228 million €, Salzburg Central Station– Freilassing: 180 million €, Brandstatt–Böckstein: 26 million € – then you can see that there have been huge investments and a great expansion of the railway. It is important to me to improve the opportunities in the regions by means of broadband. We must work together, and I think we will do so together. I thank you for all your positive opinions and can only ask you once again: This budget supports the economic location of Austria, it creates jobs, we create more quality of life, and I ask you to agree to this budget!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e52138	I now have no more words on the sub-division of transport, innovation and technology. The debate on this subject is closed. [[15:25:30]] UG 14: Military Affairs and Sport
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e52159	In this way we come to the negotiation of subgroup 14: Military affairs and sports. – I welcome Mr Klug. Mr Bösch is the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e52184	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We are now debating the budget for defence. That will be €1,938 billion for 2016 – I will withdraw the sport from the proposal submitted by the Minister for Foreign Affairs for his entire ministry. Thus, the budget will amount to almost 0.6 percent of the gross domestic product for 2016. The Minister will claim that this number is wrong. – This number is correct because we take the financing proposal as the basis in our bill – and not the estimate of results as the Minister did. But we are at the more realistic level, and this makes many other institutions in the Republic the same as we are. Mr Federal Minister, you will say that this budget for the first time has been increasing for many years. That is – and I have to give you the answer – but only a bright rise. You will say that there will be €96 million of special investment for the Austrian federal army next year. However, of this €96 million special investment, €205 million will be deducted, Mr. Federal Minister. € 96 million minus € 205 million, which results in an et- A hundred percent loss, and you just can't talk about that! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Consider the situation in Europe, Minister of State: We have a conventional war in Europe within the framework of Ukraine. Here tanks shoot at tanks, artillery against artillery, infantry associations are going against each other – a situation that we in Europe only take place in the first half of the 20th century. ==References====External links==* Official website We have terrorist attacks all over Western Europe. We have mass immigration that has reached a dimension that will no longer be feasible – neither for the European Union, its institutions, nor for the Member States, nor in particular for the Republic of Austria. Mr Federal Minister, I should like to remind you of your own objectives of impact, which you have formulated in this budget proposal. ‘Effective objective 1: Ensuring adequate reactability in the context of military national defence to changing security conditions while ensuring state sovereignty.’ Mr Federal Minister, it is a good goal to formulate here, but what you are doing does not correspond to the achievement of this objective. They make diametrically the opposite. They close barracks, which are excellently dislodged, which are best and most modernly equipped and furnished; They include associations and companies that do not find any replacement. They kill 136 M109 – this is our tank artillery – 106. You plan, of the 59 combat tanks “Leopard”, which we have to throw 25 away, of the 350 tanks 285, and of the 606 grenade-throwers – one of the most important weapons for the Austrian army – you want to abolish 424. Mr Federal Minister, there is nothing left to achieve the objective of effect you have formulated here. The objective of action 2 is as follows: “The direct assistance provided to the Austrian population in the event of disaster and the protection of the country’s critical infrastructure adapted to the threat” – they also mention the need to reach 12,500 people who can be used for these areas. Mr. Federal Minister, you will no longer get these 12,500 persons together if you do not also use basic defence servants in these areas – basic defence workers who are sufficiently trained to provide these services according to their training status. No one expects any of us to be on guard at the Ballhausplatz or at the focus on the border in Spielfeld or Nickelsdorf at the front in the middle of the front, but, of course, ground defense servants can also be used for security police services after a proper training and after a review of the training level, just as you have kept it in your paper on attracting the ground defense service, Minister! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] To the objective of action 3, international peacekeeping: Mr Federal Minister, you will be able to get out of the staff slowly because you need the professional soldiers for other areas if you do not use the staff properly. What I have said now is not only the speech of an opposition politician, but also that of your scientific journals. Mr Bundesminister, in the journal “ISS Aktuell”, number 1/2015, reads: "It must therefore be assumed that Austria will be able to remove itself even further from the status of a modern army and will be difficult to deal with challenging military tasks." Mr. Federal Minister, it is high time we changed the federal army policy! I'll get you together. The European Union and Austria as a state are in an existential emergency. The Republic must use the strategic reserve of action – this term you formulated in the security strategy – and that is the Austrian federal army. The Austrian Federal Government and the European Union have so far failed to cope with the refugee crisis, but also in preparing for the threat of terrorism, which is visible to everyone. The law in force will not bring about a breakthrough either at European or at Austrian level. The European Union, Mr Federal Minister, and our federal government are capitulating before reality, rather than taking decisive measures. We therefore propose the following: The Federal Government and you, as Minister of Defense, must instruct the Austrian Federal Army to prepare for the protection of state borders, especially – for the time being – in the federal states of Carinthia, Burgenland and Styria. In the light of this new situation development, you have to immediately stop and re-evaluate all the structural cuts of ÖBH 2018! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They also have the basic defence servants with basic training 2 – starting from the fourth or fifth month, depending on how the state will be – to prepare for this commitment to safeguard the state border! That is nothing new, Mr Federal Minister, that has been done successfully by this federal army for 20 years at the eastern border. If it makes the situation necessary, it is also necessary to assess the reduction in military service time that has been decided upon. An army is a security instrument of the Federal Government, a security instrument of the state that is also adapted to the threat situation. Mr Federal Minister, you also have to improve the salary situation of all soldiers so that the Austrian federal army is able to become a competitive employer! You also have to adjust the salary situation of the basic defence servants to an acceptable level, for example to the level of minimum security – which each asylumist receives! The defence budget must be increased in a first step to 1 percent of the gross domestic product! Mr Federal Minister, you also have to work at European level! You're in the Council of Defence Ministers. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The European Union maintains EU Battlegroups for a lot of money, and Austria also participates in these Battlegroups. These should be used immediately to protect the EU's external borders, otherwise the Austrian contribution to these battlegroups should be discontinued, Mr. Federal Minister, because then these elements are pointless. Work at European level to ensure that these forces that are present are also used effectively! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In which case: No one wants to shoot refugees! No one will shoot women and children and unarmed civilians, but everyone knows that a military formation like the Battlegroups is also such a move that it can be used to secure an EU external border. Should the European Union not be able to effectively secure the EU's external border in the foreseeable future, as it always promises, the Republic will also have to stop paying its contributions to the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, there is an urgent need for us to change politics regarding the Austrian federal army. You, Mr. Federal Minister, are the political institutions of the Federal Government here. Change your policy! Fight You are finally for the army and thus for the security of our Republic!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e52336	Next, Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e52357	Madam President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and in front of the screens! I would like to thank the soldiers for all the critical comments they have made here. [[Abg. Lugar: Thank you!]] [[Abg. Lugar: Thank you!]] [[General condolences.]] Mr Lugar! Even if it is not worth your effort to thank you, it is worth the effort! I think we are in a difficult situation. However, I also believe that the Austrian Federal Army is doing first-class work despite difficult conditions. It is now so in the case of budget discussions that from the first second, when they start, they do not want to make any debt, and in any field of policy they will be rubbed up that it smokes only so much. But I, too, am one of those, gentlemen on the government bank, who say: If we confess to an open society, if we confess to democracy, if we confess to all our values, then security presupposes, and security costs money, that is so. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Therefore, I believe, we also need to keep up with it again and again – because in a year a lot can change; it has also changed a lot – and look: What has changed in the European environment? What has changed internationally? What has changed nationally? I think it is possible to criticize everything, but one should act with an eye-catching, step by step, and try to get a proper review, with a proper approach and with a proper equipment for all. And if I say “security”, I know of course that we are now in the Federal Army chapter, but security simply covers a much larger area than just the classical area of the federal army – but now we remain there budgetly. I therefore believe that, following an overall assessment of what is happening in Europe, around Austria, but also internationally, it is an obligation for us to respond – and I thank all the political groups for having an all-party resolution request here today. I'm allowed to bring him in. This is necessary for foreign policy and, above all, security reasons – up to the area of terror, whether we are pleased or not. It's sad enough that we have such appearances, but I think we have to react to them. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I think we owe it to ourselves, we owe it to the Republic, we owe it to people in our home country. It is now true that we have to review from time to time in all areas of life, which is current, which has changed in terms of development and security policy. I mean, we have a good federal army. I know, of course, that it is always happening when you have enough money to invest, but I also believe that we are not going around to provide the soldiers we send into the missions, the equipment and also the men's strengths that are so necessary. Mr Federal Minister, I would like to thank you once again for the achievements of your or our soldiers. I can hardly expect the report we are going to receive from you, because I believe that we are simply guilty of the home country and our Austrians. I would like to thank all the political groups once again for their willingness to support this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e52452	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e52514	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Pilz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e52535	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I can join the thanks of Otto Pendlvoll for a very special reason: I would like to thank, in all its form and out of deep conviction, the soldiers, who are doing excellent and unaccompanied work in dealing with the refugee crisis on the Austrian border. [[Congratulations on Greens, SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I'll tell you a story from the field on the southern Styrian border. If you experience a German force there, you will often see two young soldiers: one who obviously has Austrian parents and has a large speaker in front of him, and a second who obviously has Arab parents, who holds the microphone in his hand, and explains to the refugees in best Arabic how an orderly and calm transition works. There you can see how integration works and how it works. If it went to the colleagues of the Freedom Party, the one with the speaker would stand there alone. [[Abg. Schimanek: That's not true at all! That's a premise!]] Here you can see how important integration is, how important different languages are and how important exactly these accesses are for security – in this case at the Austrian border. My second thanks to the Minister of Defence. This is my personal thanks for the great power to bring field kitchens to the southern Styrian border. I tried it myself for three weeks – I failed. The Chief General and the General Staff tried it – they all failed. The Federal Chancellor has personally tried – he has also failed. [[Call the FPÖ: I'm not surprised!]] Only the Minister of Defense personally was able to set up a field kitchen towards the south of Styria border, and if no acute petrol deficiency occurs, I assume that the field kitchens arrive there as well. - Thank you for that. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Wenninger.]] But I'm asking: Why does this require a personal order from the Minister of Defence? [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. El Habbassi.]] Where do we actually live that the minister needs to take care of every field kitchen and every field kitchen and kitchenware personally? Why is that so, Minister of State? Is it because only you have the technical competence to shift the field kitchen? Or is it because you have acquired all the competences in this ministry? Are you really convinced that you understand more of field kitchens than the Chief of General Staff? Are you really convinced that it needs all the ministerial orders? I'll tell you what my personal impression is: I do not think that much of a highly qualified military command structure can no longer comply with its work, because the cabinet has attracted everything. I do not think it is favourable for security in Austria if a cabinet around the Minister is advocating, and I do not think it is favourable if the main activity of the Austrian security policy between the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Defence is clearly that the tops of both departments are superior, as they can do to the other side. This absurd dispute about the border fence, the so-called fence debate, was an example in which one has been able to follow that the security of this Republic and of the Austrians has long since ceased, but only because: Who pays home to the others? Is the Minister of the Interior faster or is the Minister of Defense faster? – First of all, it was not about fence or non-sun, but about it: Who brings his fence history to the Austrian media in front of the other? That was really absurd, and I have no understanding at all, Minister of State for Defence, that you are participating in such political games and such disputes. It's bad enough that both government parties are in the intensive care station next to each other, but I don't think that you have anything else in your mind in the intensive care unit but to miss another patient. I think that is not the policy of government – because Austria has to be governed – nor the security policy. Now I come to the budget again: We have held a very open debate, and there is one point for which I personally do not blame you, and that is the biggest budgetary problem. We have a lot of budget problems – from MilAk to pioneers and, and – but the biggest budget problem is obviously still the Eurofighters. You have told us quite openly in the Budget Committee that the German army can no longer afford the Eurofighter operating costs and that you are looking for a cheap leasing replacement model for the Saab 105, which really can't fly anymore, because Eurofighter is just too expensive in operation. You can't replace the Saab, for that there's no money, no budget. 65 million € Operating costs per year – that's not possible. They have said that a replacement system has been leased €25 million – a third of the Eurofighter operating costs, as there are no purchase costs at all. Now we are at a point where we have to say: Stop it! Get out! Stop, stop Eurofighter! We just can't afford it anymore and we can't afford it anymore. Let us have an honest debate: What is it for an Austrian Air Force, which the Minister of Defense can no longer finance, and which is also only operational during the hours of service of officials? – We have active airspace surveillance – i.e. intercept hunters – only during the service hours between 8 a.m. and 6 p.m. If the so-called enemy knows – and at the latest today – that there is no airspace surveillance between 6 p.m. and 8 p.m. in the morning, at least no active component, then he will probably fly at night, and then everything will stay on the ground. [[Abg. Moser: Or in the morning!]] If for most of the time everything is on the ground, because you can't fly at all, because you partly have a clarity of exactly zero Eurofighters in tent road, I suggest: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler]] Let us sit together in the National Defence Committee and make the largest and most reasonable savings programme of security policy in Austria! Let's finally set up the Eurofighter system! Let us end with an inconsistible and irresponsible waste of money and clean up the budget where it is best, namely with the Eurofighters! To this end, Minister of State – despite all that you do not work in the resort and what for I would like to offer you the cooperation of our Greens, some of which you may have the personal responsibility. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e52631	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Nice to meet you. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e52653	Madam President. Mr. Minister of Finance! Mr. Minister of Defence! Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen in the gallery and at home in front of the televisions! Austria is undisputed a rich, stable, socially just and – some say – a safe country in the midst of a world that, as many may appear, becomes ever more dangerous, increasingly insecure and increasingly inhuman. At the beginning of my remarks, I would also like to give you some thought to this. The guiding principle of the Austrian Federal Government is: ‘Help where others can no longer.’ In order for our soldiers to live up to this guiding principle and also to be able to help where others can no longer, there is a need for functional equipment. It needs the right structures. It needs appropriate infrastructure that we must provide to our soldiers, our federal army. [[Abg. Pilz: And field kitchens!]] And it takes the right decisions at the right time. This requires political courage and political skill at the head of the state defense. Austria still has one of the lowest defence budgets in Europe with its 0.6 or 0.8 percent of GDP – no matter how it is calculated. This is a fact, and this is something that the German army can look forward to – and it must be clearly expressed – to a truly essential financial syringe within the framework of the special investment funds. At this point I would like to thank the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Defence and all those involved that this financial syringe was possible. – Thank you very much for that. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] In times when the shadow of terrorism, because one crisis after another at our borders – I mean European borders – is burning up, as people from many parts of this earth are streaming to Europe in order to seek first and foremost protection and security in order to find protection from persecution, suffering and oppression, we need security, we need a strong federal army that can really protect citizens. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schimanek.]] There are people both domestically and abroad who do not only think well with our Republic, with us people, and there is a need for the army that is in place in this case, which is also in place in the event of disaster, then when it is needed. People in our country feel insecure, too, to take note of this, just as they feel left alone there and there. It is, I believe, one of the most important tasks of a free and sovereign democratic state, that its citizens are exactly the fears of taking this insecurity and showing them: Yeah, we're here, we take responsibility, we take care of your security in this country. The headlines in the media of the last two days, Mr. Minister – I say quite openly – have not contributed significantly to this feeling. Collaborator Pilz has celebrated the field kitchen theme here – for some funny, at least enjoyable. I don't find it laughing anymore when we talk about it. I also find it quite remarkable that, in the context of the budget consultations, we expect that the Ministry of Defence of a assets of € 6.6 billion this year is already € 340 million less available. What's going on? – One can correct this question. We here in the House have to ask ourselves another question, openly and honestly, without any scams, without partyideological limits: How much is security worth in our country? – That's why I thank you. I would like to thank Otto Pendl and all the parties for this all-party proposal – a resolution with which we mandate the Federal Minister to make a clear question of those decisions that have been taken under the structural reform ÖBH 2018 last year under completely different situation assessments and framework conditions. It's more than that. We also note that the situation has changed, ladies and gentlemen, [[I should like to congratulate Mr Pendl and Mr Weninger on his work.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the Austrian Federal Army is probably the most important cornerstone and guarantee of our democracy, a guarantee of Austrian sovereignty. Let us give our soldiers what they need to fulfill their task! This starts with small things – I call it the security police border use by name –: It can't be that no seat guard vests are distributed to the soldiers. It can't be that they have to wear the guns without a safety holster. This is just dangerous and irresponsible. This can now be increased in the order of magnitude – I am saving myself, but above all you, Minister Klug. I would like to thank the soldiers who, in spite of the circumstances, do so much for this country, who really live what they have promised, namely, with the weapon in their hand to defend their homeland. I too have praised this and I will do so if it is necessary. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e52711	Next, Mr. Dr. Hable to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e52733	Madam President. High house! Dear Federal Minister! Estimated citizens on the gallery and at home in front of the screens! We are debating the 2016 national defence budget, and Austria's contribution to the defence of the country is quite remarkable – not in the positive sense. There are only four countries in Europe that spend less than 1 per cent of their economic performance each year for national defence – only four countries: These are Austria, Ireland, Luxembourg and Malta. That is, we are there on one level, in a category with two small states and an island. At this level Austria is acting, at this level of the budget money is spent for national defence – less than 1 percent of GDP. [[Abg. Krainer: Two islands! With Austria three!]] Mr Bundesminister, not only that this national defence budget has been historically in Europe for a long time Comparison at the bottom is also remarkable that a special sinking flight has been used since you took over the office. [[Abg. Krainer: Here you can see how efficient we are!]] You took responsibility for the Ministry of Defence in March 2013, and since then, I quote the budget service, the following happens: “Since 2013, payments (...) have fallen sharply.” – In figures: Since 2013, you have managed to reduce the national defence budget, which was already at the bottom of Europe, from 0.67 percent of GDP to 0.55 percent of GDP. I already know what you're going to stand up to: They will refer to the famous, well-known special investment package. [[Federal Minister Klug: No, to the success!]] – 600 million € will be made available to the Federal Army. – Yes, if only so, because in fact, it is not 600 million, but only 350 million by 2019 – the remaining millions will flow from 2020 onwards. That is, you make promises here for a period after the next National Council election, for a period outside of any federal financial framework laws – something you can never and never promise! In reality, we are talking about €350 million, but of course not annually, but uniquely. What does that mean? – The cost-absorbing path, which also meets the Ministry of Defence and which leads to savings of €200 million annually by 2018 – annual, not uniquely, but €200 million annually. A budget located at the Malta and Luxembourg levels reduces once again by de facto 10 per cent every year, and the Gustopückerl is doing what is in this special investment package, which you call “special investment” at all, such as weapons and telecommunications and ABC protection equipment. Federal Minister! These are not special investments, that is the basic equipment of the federal army, that is the basic equipment of the federal army we are talking about here. These are not special investments! You argue here like a car seller who wants to sell the steering wheel as a special equipment! Overall, these are very difficult budgetary conditions under which the Austrian federal army still has to work. That is why I would also like to take this opportunity to thank all the soldiers of the Austrian Federal Army that, despite these difficult conditions, you are serving and working to protect our country. – Thank you very much. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] Mr. Federal Minister, let us continue to the so-called 2018 structural package. Only if some have forgotten: The structural package “Austrian Federal Hero 2018” is only because the last package, namely the Austrian “Bundesheer 2010” project, was carried to grave, simply because it did not provide the necessary financial resources. This is the only reason why there is now the next project – 2018. To all of this, you want to align the federal army according to its most likely task. Now I read in the federal constitution and read nothing there, however, that the task of the federal army would be to fulfill only the most likely task. There is something quite different, namely a much more comprehensive task of national defence. That means what you're saying here doesn't correspond to the federal constitution. This is a smooth breach of the constitution! So I wonder, what happens in the case where your assessment is not the most likely one, but perhaps a more unlikely one? What do you say? You then: I'm sorry, we forgot, we didn't think about that and we didn't budget it for that!? - Then what are you doing? Let us continue with one of your so-called prestige projects, Mr. Federal Minister, on military reform. The military service should be attracted. Yes – the words are pious – that would be urgently necessary. But now we have to look at what this is to be achieved. Among other things, it will be achieved by allowing recruits to choose their training modules. That's interesting. It is as if the German army were something like a school of general education, where everyone chooses which modules he wants to lead to his training. Mr Bundesminister, the only thing that recruits can and should choose is the weapons hole! That's clear. But what is necessary then is not what one can choose, but something that results from the function, through the task. How is the military service still to be attracted? – Yes, Internet for everyone, Wi-Fi in the barracks. Well, that's great, Minister of State! But the federal army is not a leisure club! What do we need that for? What do we need a barracks wifi for everyone? What we need is good, demanding training, exciting and interesting training, application-related training. Then it will also be interesting enough for the basic defense servants. Then she will also be interesting enough for volunteers. However, they won't be when everyone in the barracks starts turning thumbs and surfing the Internet. Let's go on to your second so-called prestige project, to military reform. The militia is supposed to get new tasks. The new task of the militia is to protect critical infrastructure. - I know the thought behind it. That's the thought that says: Well, the militia, it's not quite full, but it's supposed to take over as light tasks as object protection. – But this is not the task of the militia! The task of the militia is, of course, the use throughout the military spectrum. The militia is supposed to be used if the forces present are not enough. This is the first mistake. The second error must be assumed that property protection would be an easy task. Maybe you should have asked your military experts at the Ministry of Defence. That's not an easy task, on the contrary, it's even one of the most difficult at all, because you have to control different forms of action simultaneously. The third error: They want to assign a militia to each protection object. There are at least 400 objects in Austria that belong to the critical infrastructure. Do we really have 400 militias? – So I don't know anything about it! That means you're deceiving something that doesn't exist at all. The existing forces are not enough for this. This is the third error. [[Call: Your speech is an error]] This brings me to the fourth and last error. It is a completely wrong strategy that you apply. This is a strategy from the Cold War according to the motto: Let's send the soldiers to protect objects, and they'll dig in there. But that no longer corresponds to reality. What we need today are mobile, quickly available forces. Or do you really believe that terrorists or anyone choose an attack target where you are sending your companies? The opposite is the case, and that is why we need mobile, quickly available forces. All in all, then, it is a military reform based on a fourfold error. Apart from that, you also deceive a willingness to use that does not exist. You said in an answer to a question that the ten Milizbataillons now available would all be operational at the same time. That's just not true, the military command knows better. They are not all ready for use at the same time, but not more than three to four. And why? – Because equipment and equipment are not available at all. That's the reality! This is the truth of the Austrian defence policy! Mr Federal Minister, I conclude by saying: Around Europe, entire countries are sinking in chaos and war – but not only around Europe, war and terror are also being brought into Europe in the middle, as we now know. And what are you doing? Instead of taking responsibility for the state defense in this country, continue the balding – a balding that is irrational. It is a cold blow, in which you put yourself in the ranks of those ministers of defence who have just failed to meet their responsibilities, but who have played graves of the federal army. This has already begun with ex-Minister Platter, who abolished the military exercises, with the result of a militia that no longer exercises, but only exists on paper that does not exist. At that time it has already begun, and you continue this course of balding, at the expense of the security of our citizens. They put the security of our people at risk, Mr. Federal Minister! This is not responsible and a security policy bankruptcy declaration that you deliver. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e52825	The next item is the speech by Mr Christ. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e52854	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! For the 60 recognized sports associations, the homes of our top athletes, €39 million are available annually for the performance and top sports sector as basic promotion and as project and action promotion. Required, applied for and filed by professional associations but over €60 million. – Only so much on the subject, the sport in Austria has enough money. Urgent infrastructure projects are often no longer at all, because co-financing with the countries and communities is becoming increasingly difficult. I think there is a lack of joint strategic planning and there is too little thought of joint Austrian sport. I see an increased need for action among the national sports directors and the national portraits, because the sport is known to be in accordance with the Constitution of the State. There are enough urgent infrastructure projects in Austria. However, it must not be forgotten that already many projects are actively supported by the Minister of Sport: Rudersport regattastren in Linz and Vienna, athletics facilities in Linz, the South City, Graz and Götzis, or the Federal Performance Centre Wettkletteren in Innsbruck, to name only a few. Ladies and gentlemen, movement, sport, health are essential concepts and areas that will occupy our society in the future. Life-long support for nutrition and exercise must be provided and provided from childhood. Sport has finally made it into the SchoG, into the school organization law. We have taken first positive steps towards daily movement. We have taken first good steps in the educational field of the educators, but we have not yet reached the goal. Still, from my point of view, there are many brakers and many catalysts when it comes to the movement to sport in daily life. The enormous social importance and the health significance of sport has not yet reached the minds of all those responsible in this country. Too much money is still being repaired and too little prevention. In particular, the Breitensportsverbands make valuable contributions to the health of our citizens, from kindergartens to businesses to pension homes. Each euro invested in the movement and in sports comes back three times and helps enormously save costs in the health field. Thanks to our Minister of Sports, he always has the whole red and white-red sport in mind and supports him where it comes from, whether it is with “moving children healthy” with the youngest or with the “rio project” in the Topathletes, yet I personally consider 40 million freely available resources for sports, for infrastructure, for sports major events to be modest, so as not to say, embarrassing. The attempts to cut the sports minibudget also massively must be turned to the sharpest. One last word to the colleagues of the opposition. In principle, I appreciate the work of the Court of Auditors, but sometimes I have the impression that, in the case of the Ski World Championship, not an overall view was made, not the entire added value of the region, as it has been – and must not be forgotten – since the application took place in 2004, as well as the proven sustainability for infrastructure and tourism. That's why I'm asking to leave the church in the village. So I thank the Minister and his team for the good cooperation. Of course, we agree with the budget, even if we wanted to do much more.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e52908	Next, Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e52959	Madam President. Mr. Minister of Finance! Mr. Minister of Defence! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values Watchers at the gallery, especially Professor Schambeck, who had been here for a long time as a listener, and valued spectators on television! Mr Bösch and Mr Hable have already presented the wrong approaches to the budget and the positions which are quite worthy of improvement. In fact, I was thrilled by Mr Pilz, who also found that the defence budget is far from sufficient. But at this point – as I mean – all soldiers, all police officers and all NGOs and voluntary helpers who are in this difficult time in the use of borders, in the topic of refugees and also under this increased fear of terror provide excellent performance, sincerely a warm thanks. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and representatives of the Greens.]] There are, of course, in addition to the security missions that have been addressed, even in the event of disasters – no matter what form – the reputation for the German army, especially in flood disaster, where – I think – the excellent performance that will be achieved immediately on the ground needs to be mentioned. I would now like to address one point, and I believe that a picture shows exactly the problem that has been strongly discussed in recent times in the 2 100 bubble music chapels in Austria, with 140,000 volunteers throughout Austria, who have produced most of this excellent quality of the military chapels themselves, and who have been able to play in the orchestras, or, Mr. Minister, in excellent cooperation with the national music schools and the national music school, have produced a lot of orchestral leaders, chapel masters and sentence leaders in the bubble music chapels. I am particularly entitled to mention President Wolfram Baldauf, the chairman of the friends of military music, and the presidents of the national music associations and President Fritz Anzenberger, who already wrote in a letter of 19th century. In June, Mr Minister, referred to you this problem. The national conference in Linz has also dealt with this subject and will come to you in a conversation to discuss here again the possibilities, for example in the form of sponsorship, which is also imaginable. Col. Kristist mentioned the Heeressportverein, who is doing a great job and is also always at the forefront of Olympic and World Championships for Austria advertising. We are here at the same number of persons: 300 military musicians would be the same number as the 300 athletes at the HSV. As a huge social and cultural supporter of the outside world and as a representative for Austria, they are – I believe – just as important. Mr. Minister, there is also a letter from 4. November to you personally from military music friends under Obmann Baldauf. I would really ask you to achieve this Lapidar cost of 0.59 percent of the army budget – which we are talking about – also through a special position from the cultural budget in order to secure the preservation of this publicity, this valuable advertising medium for the federal army. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] We therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] In advance of your speech, Mr Pilz, we would also like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] We ask for support and approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e53080	Both motions for resolutions have been properly tabled and are under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e53203	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Smoking. Mr Steinbichler, would you please release the speaker's seat for the next Members to speak and remove your sign? Please, Mr Rauch, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e53233	Mr. Federal Minister! Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! From Blasmusik back to the sports budget. It is clear that sports are facing numerous challenges in Austria. But I want to start with broadband because I think it is one of the most important common concerns. I am pleased that there is really a cross-group interest in this House, especially for our children and young people, in creating a suitable range of activities. With the daily movement unit, especially in all-day school courses, a first important policy position was – I think – made. In addition, the “moving children healthy” project is running in the sports resort, which is very welcome. Now to the top sports area: We are facing two major international sporting events. One is the European Football Championship in France, the other is the Olympic Games in Rio de Janeiro. We have seen in recent weeks at the events in Paris how important the security issue has become, especially in the case of large sports events. Therefore, a wish to the Federal Minister: He should ensure that both the Austrian athletes in Rio de Janeiro and the Austrian national football team in France are safe at the venues. I think we just have to guarantee that, when athletes work abroad at events, they have the same security. From my point of view, the decisive or the crucial task of sports is the model effect. We are concerned about this by the ÖVP: It's about "clean" sports. And clean sports clearly says no to violence in sports, no to doping and also no to bet manipulation. Important measures have already been taken on all these three areas. Thank you, too, to the Federal Minister. I remember the new anti-doping law, I remember the exemplary fan initiatives in the Ministry of the Interior, and what is also pleasing when it comes to bet manipulation: The accession to the Council of Europe Convention against competition manipulations is under way. I think there have been a lot of projects on the way. For all these projects in broadband sports, but also in top-ranking sports – when it comes to sports sites infrastructure, when it comes to international participations or national competitions – the sports budget has taken sufficient precautions. We are, I believe, perfectly set up for all these challenges. Of course, in the future we need to make greater use of synergies – with sports associations, with the countries – in order to avoid certain double-tracks in sport. In my opinion, the 2018 strategy process is also important and important, especially in the field of sports venues. I believe that this is a very crucial point: For organized sports, one important thing is that the dedicated funds actually come into the sport, so that the voluntary activity can continue in many associations and clubs with a huge, diverse offer. Finally, I would like to thank the Federal Minister for the good cooperation and especially, of course, the many volunteer officials in the associations and associations, especially in sports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e53291	Next speaker: Mrs Steger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e53312	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It's ready again. Today is one of the rare occasions where we can discuss sports in plenary. It seems that there is a need for a budget debate, because the Committee is adjourned, postponed and postponed by red and black. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There is the unbearable principle of drawerization. The expression of self-confidence and pride on your sports policy, Mr. Minister, is rather not this procedure. This is rather an expression of a bad conscience, and there are plenty of reasons for that, because there is transparency in the sports sector, there are double and multiple promotions, there is a political friendly economy and there are sports venues that need to be ashamed of internationally. And, and, and so! But let's get back to the budget. Once again, the budget is decided, and again in the field of sport you have set up the red pen. After a reduction of €3 million in 2014, this year is even reduced by €5 million. 5 million in an area where it is missing at all corners and ends – but not because there is so little sports promotion in all of Austria, but because it is not where it is supposed to be, namely the athletes, the clubs and the infrastructure. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The problem is that the total amount of funding plus isolated successes are brutally deceiving the deficit in the structure. Austrian sport has a much deeper problem; a problem that goes through all kinds of areas in Austria and manifests itself in sport in its strongest form: the division of party-political power of the former two major parties Red and Black, a division that is diametrically opposed to the efficiency of the use of funds. That's where we'd be with the roof associations. Too bloated, too uncoordinated, and in triple execution – “absolutely superfluous” is the general conclusion when you ask Austrian athletes, clubs or professional associations. There is, for example, a black SPORTUNION, and there is a red ASKÖ. Only € 6 million are legally mandatory annually to the ASKÖ. I ask you, Minister: Is this really in the sense of sports promotion, that the ASKÖ, as in the Vienna election campaign, sends letters to its members and calls on them to choose the SPÖ? [[He-Rufe at the FPÖ.]] Can you explain to me what exactly this has to do with sports activity? See, that's what I'm talking about with this catastrophic party politicization of sport. There must be no such thing as Austrian sport. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Nor can it be that the ORF, which nevertheless collects sum of forced fees, is also cross-subsidised from the sports budget and demands border sports for national team transfers up to €20 000 per game, which, if you are lucky or – better said – if it is not transferred by a private station, are replaced from the sports budget. Do you say that the State Opera or Parliament will actually receive an invoice from the ORF, so that all this will be transferred, or do you only organise an additional basket fee for the so-called margin sports? To report on these peripheral sports is the ORF's public-law mission, and precisely because of this, the ORF Sport+ division station was first created. By the way, there is no transparency as to how much the ORF gets from the sports budget. Proposing transparency: In the Federal Sports Promotion Act, you have already decided in 2013 to set up a database of transparency. More than two years later, you are still in the tendering process. Apparently you didn't have it with it. However, the importance of transparency in the promotions has not been seen until recently when the Court of Auditors published its report on the Schladming World Cup, in which the country of Styria – but also you, Mr Minister – received a devastating judgment. 248 million € paid the public hand, and of which your ministry paid 24 million €. In the case of such amounts, one should think that there is an interest in what actually happens to these funds. [[Abg. Haubner: Everyone was there...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] But no – I quote the Court of Auditors report: Missing controls, lack of transparency, double funding and dubious usefulness of individual investments – just to list a few points. This cannot be indifferent to you, Minister, as Minister of State and at the same time as the Steirer. Next construction site: For years, athletes have been promised attractive sports venues under the term Sportstätten-Masterplan. However, apart from a few monuments for princes of the country, the truth looks such that the few who are available are also taken away by your catastrophic refugee policy. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] So happens at the multiversum, so happens at the Ferry-Dusika-Stadion. I wonder, Are you not aware, Mr Minister, that the sports venues are the jobs of our athletes, and are you practically taking away their existence from them? Or do you just don't care? Now the budget is reduced again in the investment grants for the sports venues – once again completely beyond the facts and completely beyond the needs of the athletes. I'll get you together. In the Austrian sports policy, there is an urgent need for rethinking. Get away with the red and black division of power, with a total Austrian sport concept! Above all, it takes red and black politicians in this House who at last no longer hide from a sports policy debate.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e53404	Next item is the report by Mrs Gessl-Ranftl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e53425	Madam President. Mr. Minister! High house! I am now returning from the sports budget back to the state defense budget. With just under €2 billion, the budget of the state defense increases for the first time again noticeably. In addition, a special investment package with a volume of €660 million was decided. This figure already accounts for € 350 million in the 2016 to 2019 budget framework. [[Abg. Rädler: Yes, then it fits anyway!]] With this special investment package, the Federal Government can make important investments, in particular in equipment and training for the force. For example: Procurement of 20 new storm and flat water boats for our pioneers, which are also suitable for flood use; purchase of new vehicles for the force, such as three heavy mountain vehicles, 90 off-road trucks and 66 interchange trucks; investments in ABC defence such as mobile decontamination systems; modernisation of 71 crew transport tanks Pandur; Increase the German army's capabilities with a focus on education. In Area of aircraft: Modification of the helicopter fleet Black Hawk and AB 212; system maintenance measures for the Hercules transport aircraft as well as an update of the Eurofighter engines. In the field of training, an increase in training time and the exercises at the Duell simulator are planned. For this purpose, 1,200 pieces of infantry dual simulators of the latest generation are purchased. In addition to the new acquisition, the 1,700 already introduced duel simulators for infantry and the 150 systems for combat vehicles and anti-terrorism weapons will be subject to a comprehensive update. In future, all the German army's armed forces, as well as the military training sites such as Allensteig, Seetaler Alpe, Wattener Lizum and Bruckneudorf, will have these systems. This ensures that basic defenses for training and exercise are also equipped with these duel simulators. The improvement of the protection of our soldiers is taken into account by the procurement and introduction of new combat helmets, protective vests, protective masks and protective glasses. However, investments in infrastructure are also available from 2016 to 2019, each with around €100 million. Estimated colleagues, through the positive budget development and the focus on the most likely tasks of military use and the implementation of the ÖBH 2018 structural package, will ensure that the Austrian Federal Army will continue to be ready to protect all Austrians in the future. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] As a Styrian Member, allow me now two more sentences on the ski-WM Schladming. Mr Brosz, I think that you will certainly address this issue as you do in the Sports Committee. [[Abg. Amon: The FPÖ has there...!]] The Alpine Ski World Cup in Schladming has been a great success. With eight medals for Austria, the Ski World Championship is one of the most successful large sports events. Advertising for the sports country Austria was unique. For our Styria, the World Ski Championship has brought an urgently needed investment boost, so it was important and right to invest there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e53481	Next, Mr Brosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e53503	Madam President. Minister! Mr Finanzminister! First of all, I would like to refer briefly to Mr Steger's speech. Some things I can share – among other things, the structure in the Sports Committee, that we are delaying almost everything, getting nothing in place, then the applications will end and be sunk there – but in some things I would see it clearly different. This concerns, among other things, the massive criticism of the roof associations. As a greener, I play tennis at an ASKÖ association, at an association football, but I have never received an invitation to choose someone there now, which may still happen. [[Abg. Steger keeps a document up to date.]] Yes, I believe that there has come a letter there, I only believe that one should in particular appreciate the work of the volunteers. [[Abg. Yılmaz: Why didn't I get a letter?]] I see that there are extremely many volunteers in both organizations, that there is a lot to offer there, and I do not care whether it is happening in the ASKÖ or in the UNION, whether it has grown historically or not. It would probably be different now, too, that would develop differently. If the roof associations were to be dissolved, as the FPÖ has repeatedly called for, I think the offer of sports facilities in Austria would be dramatically reduced. That is why I see this clearly differentiated. [[Congratulations on the Greens as well as on representatives of the ÖVP.]] But now I come to the point that I want to talk about today more specifically. Unfortunately, Mr Christ, with whom I have a very good relationship, is not in the hall now, nor is the colleague Gessl-Ranftl, who has just spoken. If we take the criticism of the Court of Auditors seriously – and I assume that we take Court of Auditors' reports seriously – I think that we can expect all Members to differentiate between an event that has brought relatively much advertising value and has been successful as a major event, and the way in which these promotions have apparently been carried out, where, in order to say so, the Court of Auditors is putting all the hair on it. I have no understanding at all of the fact that you're going over it now and I'm saying, Because this was a sports event that had a lot of advertising effect, we don't look at the funding structure! Perhaps we will also be able in the Sports Committee to work together to deal with the criticism and see what consequences can be drawn from it. Well, then we'll work it up once! The Court of Auditors criticises: At major sporting events, a “total cost tracking” would be set up. So to translate this: There was no one. This is because the Minister, on my questions, especially – and all those who were in the Sports Committee, have experienced this – has told us in a bit: We do not promote major events in itself, we only promote the infrastructure, therefore we do not care what happens to the funds and what is going on there. I think it's unbearable! If one reads media reports, there may have been profit participations in an order of over €30 million, which the FIS has transferred back to Austria, in the case of the Ski Association. He says: I'm not gonna open that up, I'm not saying how much came in. It's our money!, says the screwpin after he's got 30 million € from the FIS and promotions in sizes of about 60 million € have come in different areas. I have nothing against the promotion of the ski area. I have, however, come to the second point, quite a bit against what appears to have come from the ÖSV and sent the same invoices that he sent to the Minister, even the FIS, at least says the Court of Auditors, and has been twice encouraged. Actually, you should say: We need to look at the legal situation as to whether the law on corruption applies when these subsidies have been paid twice. Among other things, the Court of Auditors criticises that you have not been allowed to submit a contract either. By the way, the country of Styria has had this hosting contract, there has been only a small problem – we know this very well from Parliament –: It has been blackened, and relevant parts have not been legible according to the Court of Auditors report. As Minister of Sport, you have not even requested the report! You don't know this contract. They do not know where the ÖSV has been promoted. All of this can be read in the Court of Auditors' report, and if you do, you have to go here as a sports politician and say: This is really not the case, there is an urgent need for reform at major events! That is why I have also made a request that large-scale sporting events should only be promoted in the future if, as the Court of Auditors suggests, there is an overall cost account. Now it is still possible to discuss whether or not the ÖSV should receive a profit – that is, I think, a debate that can be held as an organizer – but we should at least know which funds flow back and forth, in which order of magnitude there is promoted. If, by the way, Mr Schrocksnadel, who is your Olympic coordinator and who decides on the Olympic sportsmen's funding, at the same time receives the letter from the Court of Auditors that he has approved double funding, I wonder how you can just press all your eyes and pretend that everything was fine. You can't really do that. In my opinion, therefore, we also need urgent reprocessing in the Sports Committee. I repeat the demand: No more money without a breakdown of what happens to revenue! [[Abg. Christ is just going to his seat.]] Since I'm seeing Hermann Christ right now: The advertising value is undisputed, no question! I would also like to promote a World Ski Championship next time, but I would like to know what will be promoted, who will cash the profits, what will happen with it, and I would like above all to ensure – and we may agree – that no large-scale sports officer, in the case of the ÖSV, can come here and send the same bills on the one hand to Minister Klug and on the other side of the FIS and receive money from both for the same bill. If we had this agreement, then a lot would have been achieved.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e53572	I call Mr Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e53594	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! The sport is a very important matter. First of all, I would like to say to Mrs Steger: What do we do without the volunteers who are active in sports – whether that is the case with the UNION, whether it is with the ASKÖ or with the ASVÖ. That's 70,000 to 100,000. Thank you very much for moving our children and young people with your daily work! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Wheeler: Exactly!]] Thank you, too, to Mr Brosz, who acknowledges these achievements. The colleague Brosz should be an example to you, he is a well-known sports expert, and even if we are not always of the same opinion, we must definitely acknowledge his expertise in the relationship. Well, once again: Inevitable part of Austrian sport are its roof associations, and they do an excellent job. - That's the first one. Secondly, As far as the funds are concerned, I believe that we have made the allocation of funds more professional and, above all, more transparent with the Federal Sports Promotion Act, which we set up in 2013. This system has proved its worth, and one can now see this in the Federal Sports Fund, which, under the direction of Mrs Stadler, is doing an excellent job, and that there is praise from the associations and also from the associations that these funds are thus granted transparently and professionally. In my opinion, we have made internal reforms that were important for Austrian sport, which have made sport and, above all, the allocation of funds more professional. The only thing I have to say is what I am unfortunately missing in Austrian sport is the Austrian top sports venue plan. Such a one has been promised for years, it is still missing. It would be a task for the next year to deal with the development of this plan with the same elan as we did the federal sports promotion at the time, because then we could surely eliminate this black spot in the sports area. For the Ski World Cup in Schladming almost everything has been said, only not yet by me, therefore one more thing: It can be said that all the decisions affecting the World Ski Championships have been taken jointly by the state government. Your colleagues, Mrs Steger, have also been there. Everything else is said. In this sense: Live the sport! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e53649	Next speaker: Mrs VOYER (S). — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e53671	Madam President. Minister! Mr Finanzminister! Live the sport! – I see it as well. At this point a warm thanks to our great Austrian athletes, who have an incredible role model, not only for the young people, but also for a great business card for Austria abroad. [[Congratulations to Members Dietrich and Schenk.]] We do not need to discuss that sport is very important for health and for our society as a whole. Of course, sports also need some means. If you look at the 2016 budget, a total of € 133 million was estimated for sport. This corresponds to a decrease of approximately €4.8 million. Quite clearly, in times when we need to save, of course, we need to save a little bit in every area. The question that arises is whether it is always saved in the right place. The general promotion of sports is the means available to the Minister of Sport for his sports policy. That is to say, federal sport promotion has taken another step towards politically dominated sports associations. Over the past few years, the Court of Auditors - which has already been mentioned several times - has repeatedly laid its hands on the wound and pointed to abuses. I would like to expressly mention a few more. The Court of Auditors was particularly critical in the examinations on how to deal with sports funding, for example, that there are not comprehensible award criteria and human links between promoters and beneficiaries. In addition, the Court of Auditors has criticised the low transparency of the flow of funds to the final beneficiaries in the field of the funding of the fund, as well as the lack of an overview of the overall financing and overall provision of funding, including large beneficiaries, which are partly administrative processes both for the promoter and for the beneficiary. The Court of Auditors also rejected the lack of a database, which we believe would be very important, in order to finally create transparency from the beginning to the end. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Mr Minister, I am allowed to read an APA message from 1.1.2014 – that is, two years ago – in which the APA quotes you: “The next milestone according to Klug is now the establishment of a database with which all external promotions are to be presented transparently. It will see the level of support as well as the purpose of the promotion." This is a very great approach from you, I just wonder why it takes so long, which help needs [[Federal Minister Klug appealing]] You still? I think two years have been a relatively long time anyway, so I ask you now in the sense of sports, because finally to give a little gas. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I also believe that taxpayers have a right to understand. I think it would also be much easier for you if it were possible to see everything transparently from the beginning to the end. And I think the taxpayer would like to spend the money more directly in the sport and a little less on the functional equipment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e53756	The next item is the speech by Mr Mag. Smart. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e53777	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleague Schelling! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. The budgetary scope of the public sector is known in retrospect. In this context, my area was also bound by strict requirements, which ultimately also limited our mobility. The Federal Ministry of Defence and Sport has consistently followed the consolidation path and has strictly adhered to the joint consolidation measures for the budget. The military leadership was therefore commissioned by me to develop an overall concept for a new structure for our army – the one that you can find all the well-known structure package ÖBH 2018. The guideline was: The Federal Army needs a structure that takes account of the new budgetary framework, and the army must also be able to fulfil the most likely tasks in the new structure. Apart from these key points, it was necessary, because of the budgetary position, that we discuss changes together without taboos. ==References====External links==* Official website On 20 December last year, an agreement was reached at government level and the corresponding Council of Ministers took place on 20 December. January 2015. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. The main points of the agreement of the ÖBH 2018 structural package were: The Federal Ministry of State Defense and Sport will receive additional budget resources of € 616 million to cover the urgently needed investment needs, of which € 350 million was set as special funding by 2019 and the rest as a financing commitment from 2020 onwards. I would also like to thank my colleagues in the Federal Government, Minister of Finance Hans-Jörg Schelling, very much. [[Complementary of the Abg. Yılmaz.]] There were intense discussions – budget talks are not the simplest – but we have achieved this in a very collegial way. Since you never know if it was the last one in this context, I would like to thank you very much. [[Mr Rädler and Mr Principal's calls.]] These funds are used and used for necessary investments by air forces to improve mobility and to protect the force, to implement the military reform and also to strengthen the military. The implementation of the second stage of budgetary reform and the focus on impact orientation make it necessary to rethink and rethink the existing processes and structures. The aim is to reduce management and strengthen the operational services in the subordinate area and also the force. This means, among other things, that we will reduce the central office from around 970 to approximately 660 employees, 15 percent of the jobs deleted and 20 percent allocated to the subordinated areas. It turned out already in the current year that the steps we took showed first positive effects. We used this financial margin to remove the operational constraints from 2014, and above all to put a clear emphasis on procurement. These include the abolition of restrictions on vehicle repair, the increase in additional services in the force from around €24 million to €28.5 million, which is an increase of 19 percent compared to the previous year. The training premium as a recognition of the excellent performance of trainers has been increased from around EUR 1 million to € 2.7 million. This is an increase of 170 percent. In 2015, we again invest around €100 million in the equipment of the federal army. In addition, we have been able to use some €79 million in additional revenue for the acquisition of equipment, which is exclusively for the benefit of the team. These include the purchase of the first off-road trucks, as a replacement for the 12M18 years, the addition of the Pandur fleet with seven vehicles from Belgium, new combat helmets and tactical light and laser modules for the 80 gun. And the procurement of universal off-road vehicles – known to you as quads – for the mountain group. The infrastructure is crucial for a modern and modern army, as we need to catch up. In 2015, we were able to provide €75 million for the renovations of our barracks. This was an increase of 50 percent compared to the previous year. Furthermore, the reform of the military service is and remains one of my central projects. We have planned € 30 million a year to implement the 180 individual measures, this year, after consultation with the Minister of Finance, we succeeded in making use of the reserve at this level. The implementation measures presented present major challenges to all parties involved. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to thank all our soldiers and all the staff of my home very much. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. A few more words about the current domestic performance. The Austrian Federal Army is currently making a significant contribution to cope with the current refugee crisis together. We have been offering around 900 refugees decent accommodation in military properties for months, and we are helping with our pioneers to create such. We provide daily around 6 000 refugees – and now we have the capacity for another 3 000 – with food. Mr Mister Pilz is no longer here, but he knows that the story around the field kitchen for the field was another one. Of course, this is done in the General Staff, but a certain humorous contribution can never harm dry figures. So far, we have transported some 170 000 refugees with military vehicles and are coordinating all transports by train and bus with a previous kilometre of 700 000. We support around 400 soldiers a day in all these areas, since 8. August of this year. That's a total of 21,600 man days. Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, in view of such a current account, we cannot really speak of a failure! In addition, some 1,600 soldiers are currently in the security police service to ensure, in close cooperation with the police, a controlled and ordered but also a secure course of the refugee movements in Austria. In Salzburg, Nickelsdorf and Spielfeld, I have taken a picture of how professionally and prudently the soldiers of our army are in use. This is a more than remarkable achievement that I don't let anyone talk about! [[Call the SPÖ:Genau!]] With great personal pride and honest recognition, I can tell you: To our federal army is left! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Without our army, this would not be possible in this form and would in fact not work at all. You have to say that quite clearly at this point. I would like to address another particularly important point on the ongoing use of assistance: Contrary to the practice of assisting forces, the German army is replaced for the first time by the resulting extra burden. This includes, among other things, charges for the use of soldiers, additional services or the additional effort for transport or the supply of refugees and asylum seekers. – That’s unique so far! Ladies and gentlemen, what is the outlook for 2018? – I have always stressed: There is no security at zero! For this reason, in the course of the negotiations for the 2016 financial framework, I also entered into intensive and hard discussions with Mr Schelling, Minister of Finance. The result is an important further step: In 2016, the budget of the Austrian Federal Army amounts to around €1,939 billion and that of the sports to €133 million. This increases the budget for national defence for years by €95 million for the first time. Dear Dr. Rainer Hable, since I took office in March 2013, there has been a higher success in the field of national defence compared to the Federal Proposal of 255,5 million €. [[Abg. New builder: It's gotten worse!]] In this context, I say: The budgetary issues are challenging, challenging and complicated in content. But it also applies in this context – if you reflect the figures since I took office – that you have to look at the figures very carefully. [[in the direction of the Abg. Hable]] In this context, the old principle applies: Don't trust any numbers you haven't checked yourself! [[Abg. Hable:... figures of the budget service!]] In 2016, the first tranche will now be taken into account in the budget. This will finance, inter alia, the following projects in 2016: €30 million for the continuation of the reform of the military service, €5 million for the first purchase of equipment for our militia, €20 million for the necessary modification of the Black Hawk, €6 million for system-sustaining projects of the Hercules, such as the exchange of wings and the replacement of the Avionics, €13 million for the update of Eurofighter engines, €7 million for improving equipment for the protection of soldiers and €12 million for the ABC defense. This is why a trend change in the long-term negative effect of defence expenditure has succeeded. With the now increase in the budget by €95 million for 2016, the development is going up sustainable. With the ÖBH 2018 structural package, we permanently reduce the structural costs by an average of €200 million per year by focusing on the most likely tasks of military use. The resources thus released are used in connection with the special investment programme of € 616 million to improve the equipment, equipment and infrastructure for our soldiers. In 2016, the budget for investment in infrastructure will increase to around €100 million, thus more than doubling infrastructure spending within two years. In addition to the special investment programme, we will also spend around € 68 million on the procurement of equipment in 2016. Mrs Gessl-Ranftl has already mentioned this. Ladies and gentlemen, as you can see from my previous remarks, I am setting up the Austrian Federal Army structurally. This means that we are more effective and efficient than ever, we create spaces that we need even in times of structural and security-political challenge. This upward trend is also undermined by the Federal Estimate.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e53887	Excuse me, Minister! There is the request – and I have already sent someone from the Parliamentary Directorate to you – to inform you that you are not allowed to film on the documents and pults of Members. [[towards a cameraman on the gallery]] I'll ask you to take this into account. - Thank you many times. Mr. Federal Minister, you are now speaking again.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e53922	Thank you very much. – However, this whole work is possible only by the many employees of the resort who support me tirelessly every day. I appreciate these outstanding achievements of our ladies and gentlemen, civil servants and all soldiers. Thank you very much. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to thank Members for the political signal expressed in the motion for a resolution to support our army in an additional way so that we can continue to do so consistently. I will come to the House in good time on the basis of well thought-out proposals. Ladies and gentlemen, I should now like to talk about sport. The sport budget of the federal government is over 132 million € at a very satisfactory level. We have a very solid basis for two key tasks of the federal government in sport: the professional financing of the structures in sport and also the promotion of the movement for our society. Let me say to the sport of association and its structures: The associations have a legally secured, solid funding available in the Federal Sports Fund. This financial base has taken on enormous development in recent years. In 2006, €54 million was made available to the associations in the special federal sport promotion. This year, it was €82.6 million that we were able to provide for the financing of professional structures in Austrian sport. With this we finance the current costs of Austrian sports, trainers, training camps, the costs for competitions and the association structures for a total of about 70 sports associations in Austria. In 2016, we will also add €5 million to our Rio project for the preparation of our athletes for the Olympic Games. In this context, I would also like to say, Mr Brosz: President Schrocksnadel is the coordinator of the Rio project, but I have already told you that he does not decide on the award of €5 million. In this context, a strategy body and an expert body are set up. These advise on the content of each award. The Rio project supports a total of 94 Austrian top athletes and medal candidates. [[Abg. Fekter: (in the direction of SPÖ)... he steals you the time of speech!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] The money is available for training, sport science support and infrastructure expansion. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! For investments in red and white-red top-level sports infrastructure, I am once again providing €40 million together with the countries in 2016. In this context, I should like to refer briefly to the following projects: In Innsbruck we renovated the Eisenring, in Vienna we invest in the rowing center, in Eisenerz in the Nordic Performance Centre, in Graz in Hüttenbrennergasse in a ball sports hall international formats, in Linz in a athletic hall and in the south city in another indoor athletic hall to close a gap. However, for the further professionalization of infrastructure, we also need a clear commitment from the countries – the Member of Parliament, Kristi, has already pointed out. Unfortunately, this is becoming increasingly difficult. Finally, I would like to address a subject that, as you know, is at my heart, namely the enthusiasm of our youth for sport and movement. We have been investing in increased cooperation between schools and sports clubs and sports associations since 2009. By the past year, it was € 2 million a year for the action “Moving Children Healthy. ” This action has an excellent feedback not to say: Everyone's excited! I therefore increased the financial resources by a further €5 million in this context. So far, we have reached 94 percent of public schools and 77 percent of kindergartens throughout Austria and provided 200 000 units of movement. Ladies and gentlemen! [[Call the ÖVP:Ready time!]] With this sports budget, we put the sports year 2016 on a solid basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e53995	The next item is the report by Mr Knes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e54017	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! First of all, an important message for me: The Austrian army is more important than ever, according to the new geopolitical situation! None of us – and I think I speak for all – could give up on our federal army. [[Abg. Rädler: When you voted, did you know that?]] – Yes, of course! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] It is important for us in this House, however, to recognize the reverse of the budget, which has really happened in the defence of the state. I know that it will be too little for some, I know that the wishes are, of course, bigger, but there is never a proposal to finance it. Finally, we are also obliged to thank our Austrian federal army, for all the efforts that have been made in recent years, whether this has been in flood disaster protection, whether it has been in major sporting events or, last but not least, now also in foreign operations and border controls, speak humanitarian aid in the refugee crisis. From my side – and I think I can speak for the whole house – a very warm thanks to all soldiers for their really tireless commitment to our security in Austria. Thank you very much. [[I should like to congratulate the SPÖ and representatives of ÖVP and NEOS.]] On the other hand also a warm thank you to our minister, who really does not have it easy! He was often shot, as it were, by the honourable Member Pilz, who is no longer here, who finds it really ridiculous to ask the Minister in the committee how big the cabinet is and how staff policy looks in the staff. However, he has not talked about how the federal army's financial situation looks and what the 2018 strategy really is. I would also invite my colleague Pilz to cooperate here, that our federal army should come back to the right light and receive the appreciation it deserves for its use. Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much, and you, Minister, thank you for your commitment! A “good luck” for our Austria, for our safety!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e54069	Next, Mr. Dr. Fuchs. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e54091	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! High house! Values Advisors! The head of general staff of the Austrian Federal Army considers that the domestic security forces are not sufficiently set up for the new challenges. In contrast to the Minister for the Interior, the Minister for Defence does not consider terror and refugee flows to be an opportunity to demand higher budget resources. The Minister of Defence considers that the budget is sufficient and that the Austrian Federal Army is sufficiently set up for the new challenges. What situation assessment is now the right one: that of the Chief of Staff or that of the Minister of Defence? The Minister of Defence is famous for negotiating €616 million with the Minister of Finance. In reality, the Minister of Finance has tricked the Minister of Defence in budgetary terms. I would like to briefly explain this 616 million euro budget trick of the Minister of Finance. € 350 million from € 616 million, the Ministry of Defence receives the ÖBH 2018 special investment package in the period 2016 to 2019. The rest will receive the Ministry of Defence after 2019 – knowing that there will be national elections at the latest in 2018! Interim result: Of the € 616 million, € 350 million were suddenly left, because the Ministry of Defence received the remaining 266 million only after 2019. However, the 616 million euro budget trick of the Minister of Finance continues: The special investment package ÖBH 2018 does not amount to € 350 million, as the Minister of Defence believes, but only € 174 million, as the national defence budget has already expanded 176 million elsewhere. Of the original €616 million, only €176 million were left, for the period up to 2019. I have not yet taken into account the cost-damaging path here. Money doesn't have a mesh, Mr. Minister of Defense! If I bunk my entire fortune in two coffee cans, and someone takes me out of the first can €10,000 and gives me into the second can €3,000, do I have €3,000 more or €7 000 less, Minister of Defense in my coffee cans? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You can read a second budget trick of Mr. Finanzminister in the UG 45: Bundeskäft. If the Ministry of Defence sells military properties, the proceeds of sale will only flow into the national defence budget from a threshold of €11 002,000. The list of estimated accounts for the UG 45 shows that only a threshold of € 1,000 applies to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of Justice. That means that every euro over the 1 000 € limit immediately flows into the budget of these ministries, at the national defence budget only from 11 002,000 €! But the Minister of Defence is satisfied with the budget, and not in vain is the headline in an article of the newspaper "Die Presse" on 19. November 2015: ‘A minister who does not want money’. Mr. Minister of Defence, I hope you are aware that we are in a very unstable situation, which can change from calm to violent at any time. Finally, make sure that our highly esteemed federal army receives the means it needs to fulfill its mission!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e54157	It is now coming to the attention of the honourable Member. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e54178	Mr President. Minister! The sport lives by sports spirit and ultimately also by game rules and team spirit. We also have our rules of play here, which are defined by the Rules of Procedure and, of course, also by the time of speech. It is more often asked by ministers when they have exceeded their time – but at the speaking time, Minister, you have definitely done so! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The only just thing about it is that you took it away from your group. But that is a question of solidarity in your circles. Dear ladies and gentlemen! But much more important in sport is the question of sports venues. We need to make even more ambitious progress in the sports venue plan. Here I ask you, Minister, to do so accordingly. Especially in indoor sports, and since ball sports, we have significant deficits, we need to do more. If we see ministers in other areas working out special positions, this must also be possible for Austrian sport. If the heroic site is rebuilt by over 100 million, we must also be able to allocate financial resources to the sports venues. A current event is currently in the city of Schwechat, around the Multiversum, where the mayor makes this sports centre available for sale. I would urge you to look at the Federal Property Society to see if we are not It could take federal sovereignty, because federal money is over the various funding channels that have already been or are already the subject of the prosecutor's office. We also need to activate this sports centre for sport!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e54227	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Kassinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e54248	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I now take out a small point from the area of national defence or national defence/sport, which is totally incomprehensible to me and which makes me sad. It is the closure of the Federal Supreme Realgymnasium at the Theresian Military Academy, which takes place under your responsibility. I don't understand. As I said, it saddens me when a top school with boarding school for children and young people from all over Austria is closed. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They are always talking about youth, promoting youth, promoting sport. There is hardly a school in Austria where the principle “Mens sana in corpore sano” has been implemented so well – unfortunately, one has to say now – as in the Bundesüberstagenrealgymnasium an der TherMilAk. A number of Olympic participants, in the fights, judo, ten fights, modern five-fight, military five-fight et cetera, are among the graduates of this school, in which such qualities as discipline, companionship, performance orientation have been taught. Obviously, you don't set any value on these properties. I cannot fully understand your argument that I am closing this school for cost reasons. We asked this in a parliamentary question: We are talking here of €900 000 in costs per year. In comparison: We also wondered what the Bilderberger meeting in Tirol cost, a meeting of private people from the banking and other areas. There were only €3 million spent on staff costs from your department. There are not yet the costs for the 25 planes that have flown around, and the 10 helicopters et cetera. So it can be assumed that we have a double cost. That's not true, or at least we know where you're going. Set your priorities: certainly not in youth and sport! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I come to a second point: Structure package 2018, presented by you in October 2014 on the basis of a situation that then resulted, with the areas of disintegration of associations, scrapping and sale of various equipment, weapons, heavy weapons, sale of barracks et cetera. We will soon have December 2015, and I would ask you to make a situation assessment. Then you might insist that we have a new situation, that in so far as the 2018 structural package is no longer adequate and therefore is to be discontinued immediately. In this sense, we make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e54323	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mr Kassager is properly supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e54385	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Tür. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e54406	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! In the 2013 People's Survey, the Austrians clearly decided that the general military obligation should continue to be an indispensable pillar of the Austrian defence. This political mission of the Austrian people is also clearly expressed in the 2016 budget. [[Abg. New builder: You don't believe that yourself!]] For the SPÖ, I can see that the general obligation of military service makes sense when the service of young people is perceived as meaningful – as useful, but also as interesting, at best, also exciting, and when fun is there, all the better; there will be elements. If so, the ministers of the army will be ambassadors to the army, and the militia will have no problems for young people. So the military service should become more attractive. For this there will be the corresponding budget resources by 2016, 2016 known as already €30 million. It is clear that training must be at the centre of the military service. This is where the reform will take place. In the future, the individual presenter will have the opportunity to choose also in terms of training issues. There will be a choice of four modules: Protection and assistance, military specialisation, cybersecurity and the military professional practice. The sport will be upgraded, valuable handling of recruits will be highlighted more, and there will be structural improvements in sanitary facilities and accommodation. This reform is a clear commitment to the Austrian federal army and its future. What it is all about is the protection of the Republic, and for this we need highly motivated personnel in the federal army, well trained and well equipped. SPÖ and ÖVP are working on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e54441	The next item is the speech by Mr Brückl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e54462	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Dear Members of this House! Since 2009, the national defence budget has been systematically shut down. Mr Bundesminister, you took part in the meeting of the Budget Committee on 19 February. November several times stresses that the defense budget is raised for the first time, from €1.802 billion to € 1.939 billion. At the same time, however, it can be noted that the reduction in the planning positions in your area continues, that the convocations continue to decline for 2016, which will of course also cause the militia to suffer. It can be noted that the ratio of staff costs to the total budget is far too high and that an adjustment of this ratio will only be possible by increasing total expenditure on national defence. The investment budget is not sufficient to meet those comparable countries. Mr Federal Minister, it would be your task to ensure that the whole federal government can guarantee the security of our home country by providing more financial resources, especially in difficult times. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Federal Minister, it seems that you are now trying to sell us this increase of 1.8 billion to 1.9 billion euros as a success. The fact is, however, that this in reality only prolongs suffering. This seems to me, Mr Federal Minister, as if you were taking off someone who has already been sparsely dressed, except underwear, and then, if it gets cold, give him a scarf so that he doesn't freeze. I can guarantee you, he'll freeze. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Höbart.]] You also, Mr Federal Minister, took part in the Budget Committee on 19 February. November means you can't count the cost of using assistance, but you can count on a double-digit million. You, Mr Federal Minister, have also ruled out the use of basic defence servants. But not only do we liberals call for the border use of groundmen, but also the Austrian People's Party does. It is through its interlocutor, Mr Schönegger, in the OTS 168 of 29. October 2015 states that the Minister of Defense and the Chief of General Staff are subject to a remarkable misevaluation. [[Abg. Schönegger: Yes!]] I quote from this press release: "Of course, both basic defence workers, who have the necessary training after a certain period of time as such, as well as the militia... in the current use of border control assistance (or, humanitarian aid), everything else is absurd and is massively questioning the system of military service!" [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Schönegger: Beautifully quoted!]] Mr. Federal Minister, Austria is in an existential emergency, and we have to use our strategic reserve of action, as the chairman of the State Defense Committee Dr. Reinhard Bösch said today, and that is now the German army, also with its basic defence servants. The use of basic defence workers after appropriate training and, above all, the corresponding duration of training would also be in line with the objectives of economy and economy, and it would greatly increase motivation and sustainability. We have also been able to secure and monitor the borders with Hungary with the use of basic defence servants in the past – and that has already been mentioned today, Minister of State. Why should this not be possible today? I should therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr Federal Minister, if our federal army gives you our soldiers, if you have our home and if you have our citizens at your heart, then you will ensure that at last more resources are available for the defence of the country and thus also for security. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. El Habbassi.]] That would be the only way to go, Mr Federal Minister – we do not think anything else, with leave, is done very well.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e54559	The motion for a resolution just tabled by Mr Brückl is properly supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e54623	Next speaker: Madam President, I should like to thank you for your support. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e54645	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian federal army's budget for 2016 is rising – that's the good news – but, unfortunately, and this has to be said in a limited way, is due to the decided special investment programme, so it is not a fundamental increase, but to understand it as a post-re-Investment investment. The question raised by a particular concern also in view of the various threat scenarios is: How do we, politics and population, actually keep it with the national defense? Is it worth something to us, and wouldn't it be time to approach us slowly at least to the international level of financing? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am also not in a position to take the budget of our also neutral neighbouring country of Switzerland as a slat, but in my view the last place in the EU comparison is not the place on which I would like to see Austria in this regard. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the German army members of all the user groups very much. In view of the circumstances, the benefits must be considered above average. I am thinking, for example, of the approximately 5,000 soldiers who are trained and trained in crowd and Riot Control, i.e. soldiers who have been trained in foreign operations in practice, with mass storms and partly also unrest professionally moved them, and who are also trained to provide for such events, which they have already demonstrated in their operations in the Balkans. There is a safe feeling to have these specialists available in case of case. However, it must be clear that in the longer term, with such a low national defence budget, these benefits, which are directly related to the security of Austrians, cannot be maintained. That is why my appeal to you, Minister of the Federal Republic of Germany – the Austrian army is to you, you have said that more often than not, I believe that you are one of your concerns: Fight In order to ensure that the performance and willingness of the federal army members also reflects themselves in a proper budget. The support of Austrians is safe for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e54696	Mr Schmid has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e54718	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! The topic of national defence: The state defense is one of the pillars of the Austrian security concept. The population has expressed a large majority in favour of maintaining the general military service and the military system. Even though in times of peace the focus of the Federal Army's mission is shifted to civil protection, home protection and the protection of the federal borders are to be maintained to the fullest extent. It is also necessary to ensure that the airspace is monitored. In recent years, there has been a steady reduction of the federal army, whereby units have been rationalized, equipment, weapons and motor vehicles have been eliminated, barracks closed and sold, and further barracks closures are still in mind today. The Court of Auditors' assessment of the fact that the German army currently has a surplus of officers is, among other things, to be called an error. At Occupational soldiers are known to be non-degradable officials. A sensible personnel policy is also a top priority for the German army, with regard to security and disaster protection, whereby personnel reduction does not appear acceptable. The current prevailing wave of refugees presents a challenge both in logistics and in the personnel sector, which is associated with significant costs. Assistance services required to address the problem must be calculated in accordance with the 'polluter pays' principle. These prove the need for an effective federal army, which currently appears only conditional. Federal Minister, fulfill your obligation and stop You'll destroy the Austrian federal army without delay! Their message has been taken note of, whose implementation is urgently needed and critically observed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e54749	The next item is Mrs Gusenbauer-Jäger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e54770	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Sport is an essential and indispensable building block in education and integration and in medical prevention. Chronic lack of exercise weakens body and mind, promotes overweight and makes sick. Healthy movement promotion must therefore be used as early as possible. Investment in the smallest ones in order not to have to be repaired later, that has been addressed a few times yesterday. Experience and studies have shown that movement has a lot of positive effects. It strengthens the movement device, is good for the psyche and strengthens the cardiovascular system. The health system also guarantees benefits in terms of investment. Therefore, “moving children healthy” is important, and this very initiative “moving children healthy” has been introduced by our Federal Minister and the three Breitensport associations. The Federal Government is important – and this shows the increase from € 2 million to about € 7 million – that this is an important part of the children's movement. A great thank you to our Federal Minister! As of 2015, every kindergarten group and every folk school can use 15 units of movement, which in turn is a promotion of the children's movement. As a positive example, I should also like to mention the introduction of the day-to-day turn-hour. Thanks also to our Federal Minister Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek! – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e54810	Next, Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e54831	Mr President. Minister! Mr Finanzminister – he has just disappeared – ladies and gentlemen, UG 14: Military Affairs and Sport: For 2016, €1.39 billion is set here. The budget, Mr. Minister, has a “swallowing”. € 616 million are budgeted for infrastructure, equipment and training. This is urgently necessary, but unfortunately it is divided into years. €220 million will go to the central office, €1.71 billion will be given to the armed forces. About 1 100 soldiers are in operation on various peace missions, costing about €65 million. Mr Minister, I have a request to you: Don't starve at our national defense! We need our army, especially our cultural promoters, military music. But I can already say: It is not only about military music as a cultural carrier, but the soldiers are also involved in disaster attacks. This must also be mentioned, because, Mr Minister, we have already heard it from your predecessors, even though everything in this area is bitten in stone, it usually doesn't last very long. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e54858	Next, Mr El Habbassi. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e54880	“I promise to protect and defend my country, the Republic of Austria, and its people with the weapon.” And further, “with all my powers to serve the Republic of Austria and the Austrian people.” Ladies and gentlemen, this is part of the requirement of the vow that every basic defence officer makes when he reports to the ground defense service. We are now living in a situation in which the Austrian population is rightly calling for this protection and aid. In view of the situation in which the executives, the soldiers of the Austrian federal army and many, many voluntary civilian helpers go to their limits every day, suffering from overload, because they simply no longer have the manpower to deal with all the tasks that are currently being done on them, I do not understand that it is not possible to make a contribution to basic defence servants who have reported themselves for the German army and who want to carry out their task for Austria. I wonder why, in such a situation, we do not also strengthen the militia and equip the federal army with appropriate means, instead of decommissioning companies and units and spoiling everything possible in material. Minister, with permission: The resolution of all the parties here states, among other things, that in December 2014 the structural package of the Austrian Federal Government was geared to the then operational tasks of the Federal Government, and it calls for the fact that the security situation has changed substantially since then, that these changes are being implemented and that new strategies are being presented, and not that this path is pursued as it has been done so far. I ask you to take this seriously. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e54916	Next, Mrs Lintl will speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e54938	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Minister of Defense, it must finally end – end with the organized caputt savings of the German army, end with the danger of our soldiers and thus the security of Austria! They are not sufficiently committed to their own troops. I see a misconception when, in view of the current threat situation, you no longer demand budgets for the federal army. [[Congratulations.]] The army can almost no longer fulfil its own duties. Of course, in view of the galloping costs for refugees, the Minister of Finance wants to save and hunger the Federal Government financially, and you allow that. Tanks and heavy equipment, vehicles and barracks are sold, planes instead of waiting are simply left standing. Because ammunition is too expensive, less is practiced. There is no adequate equipment at all corners and ends, but that has already been adequately explained by my colleagues. And all of this happens at a time when the army has to support the police. In fact, it is up to the army to secure the state borders within the framework of this assistance commitment. Now, however, the soldiers are allowed to observe thousands of refugees illegally crossing our borders every day. Also headlines about the fact that the German army provides warm food for refugees, i.e. is degraded into a catering company, are demoralizing for the troops. How is the German army still to be attractive to young people as an employer in such a poor and insecure working environment? I therefore ask you to: Be a model and finally fight for your soldiers! Work for their security by providing a sufficient budget of at least 1 per cent, but better than 2 per cent of GDP! Stop with your bird-straust policy, and face the current challenges! Save Not with our federal army, the strategic reserve of the Republic, but secure the Austrians and the borders of our country!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e54992	Next item is the report by Mr Antoni. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e55013	Mr President. Federal Minister! I would like to take a brief look at sports, especially in the field of home for disabled people. In less than a year, the Paralympic Games will be opened in Rio de Janeiro. Our paralympic athletes are already preparing intensively for this sporty highlight. At the last Paralympic Games 2012 in London, our athletes achieved a very great success, 13 medals were brought home at the time. The aim now is, of course, to continue to achieve such successes at major events. The promotion of the sport of disabled persons is therefore an essential element and a concern of our Minister of Sport Klug. In this year 2015 the Austrian Paralympic Committee with €300 000, the Austrian Disabled Sports Association with €1.1 million and the Special Olympic Austria were funded with €150 000. Also next year, there will be unchanged funding for the ongoing promotion of sport through the promotion of association and the promotion of top-level sport. As part of the “Rio” project, the Ministry of Sport supports 15 paralympic sportsmen with €400 000, and also Austrian sports aid supports them with monthly grants. Thus, Minister Klug succeeded for the first time – and this is really gratifying – to create the same conditions for athletes with and without disabilities. Finally, I would like to mention that some €1.7 million has also been invested in a judo dojo and a barrier-free athletic indoor facility in the federal sports and leisure centre of southern town. The South City is well known for Austria's largest sports centre for summer sports. The aim is to provide the local young talent, army athletes and top athletes with a training environment at an international level. Fortunately, our athletes can now prepare for Rio 2016 together with and without disabilities. It's all right for our athletes! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e55047	Next, Mrs Mag. Steinacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e55068	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Appreciate fellow citizens! High house! Today's quote: ‘Fat join’. This slogan is known to every Austrian, every Austrian for more than 40 years. Since 1971, Austrian sport has been moving To unite masses of people on the National Day of Feast. Of course, this movement has become more difficult on this day, which today is called “moving together healthy” day. There is a wide range of leisure activities and one is of course in competition with other offers. Nevertheless: For many people, this event is often the first to go to a sports club. We have 15 000 sports clubs in Austria that provide great things for our society. As Vice-President of the Federal Sports Union and with our more than 4,000 associations of the Sports Union, it is my great concern to thank our associations for their great commitment to our society and to our society today, this day, in this budget speech. Many officials, of course, work in the voluntary field. The Sports Association is an image of our society. The offers range from parent-child tournaments for the little ones to the best agencies or the elderly, and the offers grow out of the ground as they were Schwammerl. But that's very special, in the sports club all are the same. Education differences play less role, and above all the sports club is an integration engine of the special class. In sport, people find themselves together, without differences, much easier than in other areas of life. Mr Federal Minister, I would like to thank you very much for ensuring the basic provision of our associations with the support of federal sports. In particular, I would like to highlight the school co-operation programme “Moving children healthy” which has more than 15 units in the institutions in more than 80 percent of schools and kindergartens. Mr. Federal Minister, this year you increased these funds by €5 million. This means that next year we will say and write more than 100,000 sports hours in our educational institutions. I think that's really worth it. - Thank you many times. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP, as well as a congratulation and bravoruf der Abg. Yılmaz.]] From a broad base, of course, to the top – this is also a topic of our sports promotion. I say the sports have to be easily accessible from scratch, they have to be quiet and sport has to be fun. And then we start with the people who are interested in sports in their segment, and see that we not only move and keep people healthy, but also promote Olympic winners of the future. Ladies and gentlemen! “Fit join”, we move people – our goal as a politician for our citizens. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e55125	The next item is Mrs Yilmaz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e55147	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Before: There is no major sporting event where direct revenue covers direct expenditure: no Olympic Games, no World Cups, no European Championships. The only ones who always win directly are the IOC, the FIFA or the UEFA. For such sporting events, a serious calculation shall include re-route profitability. In Schladming, it was the same way that the infrastructure was improved, the nights are rising steadily – in winter plus 10.3 percent, in summer more than a quarter of a percent more nights – a new train station – you simply cannot push this aside. On the other hand, it was also a success for Austrian athletes: two world champions, two vice-world champions and four bronze medals for the red and white-red teams. Under the rule remains that it has used the region and was very good for sports. Of course you can do even better. A report of the Court of Auditors always has the wisdom of looking back. Of course, there were coordination defects. ÖSV President Schröcksnadel also left it missing the necessary transparency. But, ladies and gentlemen, we are taking the Court of Auditors' report very seriously, and you can be assured that the Minister will examine every single proposal from the Court of Auditors and, so that such shortcomings no longer arise, take action. In this sense, I thank you. The Schladming World Championship was a real success.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e55186	Next item is the report by Mr Ertlschweiger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e55207	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Federal Minister! Refugee flows that do not tear off, terrorist attacks that are becoming more and more perfider, state of exception, fear, horror – and all of this in the middle of Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, the policy must now show the flag, especially now it is important to build confidence in the people in the rule of law and its institutions. We have heard it today from colleagues Schönegger: The Austrian Federal Army plays a central role here. Keywords: Protect and help where others can no longer. The current security situation in Europe must also be the occasion for the German army to evaluate planned restructurings and to reconsider whether it is about the sale of heavy weapons or about the planned reduction of barracks sites such as in Horn or Tamsweg. The current situation in Europe must be a general occasion for politics to rethink its access to the Austrian federal army, for example if I read today in the “Kronen Zeitung” a sports comment by sport chief Robert Sommer, who writes that we can forget an Olympic candidate for years. He writes here, ladies and gentlemen: With an operetta army of mostly involuntary 18-year-olds forced to attend, safety for such a major event is not even to be guaranteed. - Quote. ==References====External links==* Official website Mr. Sports Minister, in the boxing language, it would be said that was a liver hook. However, regardless of an Olympic candidate, the security situation in Europe requires a rethinking. After the many years of baconing, a phase of muscle building must finally come to the federal army. Mr Sports Minister, who, if not you, would know how to build muscles? Europe is setting up in the fight against terrorism, and Austria's policy must also ask itself whether this specter programme, which was prescribed to the German army, is still a modern medication. I say no. Circumstances have changed dramatically, and the challenges facing Europe also need to be remedied by the federal army. We also need to check equipment and capacity distribution and draw the right, up-to-date conclusions. Because the term “operette army” hurts me as a citizen. And one thing she certainly doesn't make: Trust in the population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e55259	The next item is the report by Mr Vetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e55280	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! Clausewitz writes in his famous book “From Wars”: “The war is a true chameleon, because in every specific case it changes its nature.” – This applies both to the beginning and to the type of war. Today, wars are no longer formally declared. In the Thirty Years War, it was only after 17 months that the war began. The next war will hardly be an atomic blow or a conventional war with tanks. There is also the small war, there is also the guerrilla. This is ahead of time for us to evaluate the events of the last fourteen days: Paris, Brussels, Hanover, launch of a civilian machine, launch of Su-24, travel warning for Turkey, travel warning for Egypt. The Americans are issuing a travel warning for the whole world. Power lines have been destroyed. France has partially suspended the Convention on Human Rights. Ladies and gentlemen, all of this has to be re-evaluated, and we must not make two mistakes: to actually believe that we have a five to ten years' warning period, and to confuse helpfulness with security policy. On the basis of today's motion for a resolution, I call on the two gentlemen behind me in particular to consider an increased budget for the defence of the state. I ask all of us to think about a stronger federal army and perhaps also about a modern Spannocchi doctrine, the adequate answers to the challenges, threats of the 21st century. ==References== Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e55313	On the sub-dividing of military affairs and sports, I have no further words to speak. The discussions on this subject are thus completed. [[17:52:56]] UG 15: Financial management UG 16: Public charges UG 23: Pensions – officials UG 44: Financial compensation UG 45: Federal assets UG 46: Financial stability UG 51: Cash account UG 58: Community financing, foreign exchange agreements and Text of the Federal Finance Act and other parts of Appendix I, including Appendices II to IV
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e55402	We now come to the negotiation of Divisions 15, 16, 23, 44, 45, 46, 51 and 58 as well as text of the Federal Finance Act and other parts of Appendix I, including Appendices II to IV. A joint debate is being held on this matter. First of all, Mr. Dr. Fuchs. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e55429	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Finance! High house! Values Advisors! In the European Union, at least €17 billion of tax money is lost annually by carousel fraud on VAT. In Austria alone, this is about €500 million a year. The abolition of cold progression would cost less: € 465 million annually. FPÖ is therefore in favour of a fundamental change in the VAT system. We call for the introduction of a comprehensive reverse charge system for entrepreneurs, that is, in the B2B sector, to combat VAT fraud. With more tax revenue, we could counter financing the abolition of cold progression. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The Minister of Finance has already launched two attempts to obtain permission from the EU Commission for the introduction of Reverse Charge and has failed both times. The reverse charge system is also susceptible, was the clear justification of the EU Commission. In reality, some EU countries use the VAT system to give some large companies unfair tax advantages. This is the real reason why the reverse charge system should not be introduced. If the EU Commission is not serious about combating fraud, we will introduce the Reverse Charge System without the agreement of the EU Commission. This is what I am looking at as if the EU Commission is going to launch a infringement procedure against Austria, because we want to fight VAT fraud. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Call the FPÖ:Genau!]] [[Abg. Cute: Then I’ll look at the legal sanctions too!]] We urgently needed this €500 million from the fight against VAT fraud to relieve the smaller and medium-sized incomes and the small traders taxably, which has not been achieved by the so-called tax reform. The lower 10 per cent of households, with the lowest income, receive 1.4 per cent of the tax relief volume through this collective reform. The lower 20 percent receive 4.8 percent, and the lower 30 percent receive only 10.5 percent of the tax relief volume. Both the absolute and the relative tax relief effect is much higher for the well-earned households than for the poorer households. In addition, on average, men benefit more from tax reform than women. This collective reform of the governmental parties is not socially just tax relief. The compensaters among the pensioners fall by the rust at all. Although the Federal Government strongly announces that the 230 000 persons involved in a minimum pension will look through their fingers and will not receive a negative tax of up to € 110. As a result of this so-called tax reform, tax law has not become fairer or simpler. The opposite is the case. Tax law has become more unfair and complicated. Just think of the register insanity with the 67-page Schelling decree. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The expropriation of taxpayers through the cold progression was not even addressed. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would like to make another request:
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e55525	The motions for resolutions tabled by Mr Fuchs are properly supported and are therefore under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e55650	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Zakostelsky. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e55672	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The chapter on finance traditionally concludes the so-called budget week, and the budgetary relevance of this chapter is best seen by the high share of total expenditure. The chapter on finance includes some sub-groups of civil servants' pensions, financial compensation and financial market stability alone, resulting in almost €9.6 billion, which represents a share of about 12.5 percent of the total budget. However, the weight of this total chapter, compared to what we discussed yesterday, is clearly placed in the shadows of the chapter of pensions. Therefore, at this point, allow me to make the repeated call to the Federal Government to take the word “reform” in relation to the topic of pensions seriously. Ladies and gentlemen, let me reassess the 2016 budget. It is clear that the Austrian public debt with over €289 billion has already reached a huge extent. This is 86.5 percent of the gross domestic product. The deficit in 2016, estimated at € 5.1 billion, also provides little cause for joy. However, the framework conditions, ladies and gentlemen, under which this budget has been drawn up, are well known to be very challenging. That is why I would like to stress at this point very consciously that Minister of Finance Schelling has succeeded in providing a very respectable budget within the framework of the possibilities given. Ladies and gentlemen, a very respectable budget! After all, additional expenditure on refugee care, security expenditure and much more had to be set aside in the last few days. If we want to evaluate the budget objectively, it is known that clear criteria are the best measure, and we usually also refer to the most economically recognised criteria, the Maastricht criteria. In line with these criteria, the 2016 budget figures clearly improve compared to 2015. They know that new debt falls from 1.9 percent of GDP in 2015 to 1.4 percent in 2016. And the total debt of the state that I mentioned earlier is falling – in turn, as a percentage of the gross domestic product – from 86.5 percent in 2015 to 85.1 percent in 2016. In addition, in 2016 we will achieve the so-called structural zero deficit for the second time in a row. [[Abg. Krainer: The third time!]] - All the more beautiful. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2016 economic forecasts show an increase in economic growth with a plus of 1.4 percent. Despite this slight economic recovery, the government – however, it must be noted – is required to really push for the achievement of the essential objective of the zero deficit over the next few years. We must constantly reduce public expenditure, make efficient use of savings potential in order to be able to hand over a healthy government budget to the next generations. The motto, ladies and gentlemen, must therefore be to announce reforms not only, but to implement reforms! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e55714	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e55736	Mr President. Federal Minister for Finance! If you want to put a summary over this budget, you will have to say that it is a budget of missed opportunities. I have already carried out this earlier with regard to the tax reform: low effects on growth and employment, lack of policy implications for distribution, especially with regard to women, who have little, too little, of this tax relief. the absence of structural reforms, no inheritance tax, no wealth taxation, a lack of eco-social tax reform. But then we also have the future areas which are not sufficiently budgeted: Education budget, science budget and the like. But it is also a budget with many risks, like of course any budget. What are these risks or some of these risks, apart from those I mentioned? Once again, the banking sector, the state-owned banks, is budgeted at €700 million, after Maastricht. The question is whether that will be enough. Well, I hope so, because so far we have already paid € 11.6 billion net to the national banks – we, the taxpayers. And I hope that this really reaches the end of the flag rod. We do not do so because the risks, especially in the management of the ITA, are of course enormous, still, but also with other national banks, such as the ÖVAG with its resolution bank immigon. A second risk area is counter-financing in connection with the fight against tax fraud – I have already done so. I am very glad that this issue has finally been addressed, because we have really worked hard on it in connection with the easing of fiscal banking secrecy. But the question is of course: Do these 1.9 billion € actually come into the cash registers next year or not? – I would be very skeptical. The European Commission is also skeptical. There have also been critical comments from the Commission on the Austrian budget plan. It first spoke of a considerable deviation from the medium-term budget target, taking into account the additional costs of refugees, a certain deviation is mentioned. However, if one takes into account the fact that the costs for refugees actually reduce the deficit, then it can be derived from it, the Commission says that there is no direct need for action. And so did you, Minister of Finance, tell us in committee. But I'd have a question: Now the Ecofin Council meeting was held on Monday, and you have promised the President of the Eurogroup to take measures to secure the 2016 budget. And this is already read in the Eurogroup report as if it were additional measures. So, Minister of Finance, tell us what actually happened! What did you actually say to Mr Dysselbloom? In recent years, it has always been the case that letters have been exchanged between the Commission and you, and now there are oral formulas and flakes, but this House, which is to decide on this budget, unfortunately knows nothing. If, because of the budgetary risks, there are indeed differences from the budget target, I would recommend, together with other experts from the Budget Hearing, that these should not be compensated for by cuts in expenditure, especially in connection with cuts in the social field, in order not to stifle the delicate economic plant. However, what I would lead to would be a rapid implementation of a reform of inheritance and gift tax as well as of the basic tax. Yesterday, we tabled an amendment to the so-called additional wage reduction by reducing service providers' contributions to family allowances. That was rejected. Of course, we are very much in favour of a reduction in additional labour costs, only: Our concept looks something different. Our concept is a revenue-neutral eco-social tax reform. In other words, taxes on pollutants and energy waste will be increased and, in return, labour costs will be reduced, for private households, but also for businesses. We've presented a model here. This model was ignored in the course of the tax reform debate and I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] We even foresee a reduction in the cost of wages, which clearly goes beyond what was decided yesterday. Therefore, I can only recommend to you – to you and to the Members of the ÖVP and SPÖ Group – that: Take back this determined reduction in service providers' contributions to the family tax compensation and take up our model of eco-social tax reform! One final point concerns the question of tax dumping and tax relief. Yesterday, a new facet of this minimization of the tax payments of large corporations in the press was to be read: US companies “Pfizers Megadeal as an anti-tax pill”. “The U.S. company Pfizer buys Allergan”, thus “to the pharmaceutical company number one and travels to Ireland.” By means of a so-called reverse tax. The bigger one buys the smaller one, but technically the smaller one swallows the bigger one and thereby saves taxes. The only reason to do so and move the head office of Pfizer's company to Ireland is tax relief, and nothing else. When you, Mr Finanzminister, told us in the Committee on Budgets last Friday in connection with an extension of the tax autonomy for the forthcoming financial compensation, you are thinking, among other things, of corporate tax, I was shocked about it, honestly. I should like to remind you that, in connection with the decision of the banking secret, we have jointly developed a motion for a resolution, which has been adopted here in this House by almost all the political groups, except the Stronach team. This motion for a resolution provides, inter alia, for a harmonization of the corporate tax base at European level, but also for minimum tax rates. And exactly these minimum tax rates and the harmonisation of corporate tax bases, Mr. Finanzminister, you agreed on the Committee last Friday. I should like to remind you once again of this motion for a resolution and ask you: [[the speaker submits a document to Federal Minister Schelling]] Put what we have decided here to do at European level! Set You're an end to tax dumping! For, ladies and gentlemen, the really expensive refugees are the tax refugees! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e55860	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Rossmann is properly supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e55971	Next speaker: Mr Kirchgatterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e55993	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The benefits of the new budgetary law are becoming increasingly visible positively. The new budgetary law requires the federal states to draw up the structure of their budget in a timely manner in a comparable manner. An important criterion in the coming financial compensation is the orientation of tasks. The Austrians rightly expect the public services to be provided by the level of which they are most useful: The Federal Government and the Länder on the other hand the municipalities and cities. We know from the communities that there is cooperation in various forms. It is also gratifying that in my federal state the number of settlement communities has become smaller, but there are still complaints about the dependence of the municipalities and cities on the country. That's not good, it's causing friction losses. Clearness, clarity is required. The fact that the tasks of the municipalities have changed is known what Austrians expect of the cities has remained the same: Culture, tourism, education – cities stand in international competition. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the last day of budgetary deliberations – a week in the Committee, a week here in plenary. I can see that the vast majority of the debates were marked by materiality and commitment. That is good, even with different viewpoints. I should like to mention something that is very essential: As far as the development of the labour market is concerned, we want to do everything we can to reduce unemployment. The next tax reform with 1. January will make its contribution to this. We are very optimistic that tax reform helps many people, but also the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e56035	Mrs Gamon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e56056	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Finance! High house! I would like to take the opportunity to address the issue of civil servants' pensions once again, because I believe that on this subject we can see very nicely this basic problem that is living, which does not allow us to really reform the pension system: Privileges. Despite this crisis in the pension system, the Privilegienstadel lives on happily. There is a budget crisis everywhere – not that! The possessors decide what the next generations may still be able to get. I would like to add to this the innumerable inequalities that exist with regard to official pensions compared to “Otto Normal Pensioner” or “Women Normal Pensioner”. For example, it is assumed that next year the average pension in the High Authority could amount to €3 000. This is only slightly less than the ASVG maximum board, which only get 0.5 percent of insured persons at all. I'd say that's a little absurd in the relationship. The next unequal treatment is the incapacity pension, which is still available and which is also used to send officials who would like to work longer into forced retirement. There are innumerable procedures which are currently in place at the Administrative Court, which confirm this. This, by the way, is largely about procedures for employment in the postal sector, only for information purposes. But let us briefly come to the greatest injustice in relation to this problem. This is what was decided here a year and a half ago, the Special Pension Restriction Act – a solidarity contribution for all. Due to the tax reform, the maximum contribution base was increased out of the way, from €4 650 to €4,840. This has now led to the first time fewer luxury pensioners have to pay this solidarity contribution, and those who pay him pay less. This means in good German that the biggest profiters of this tax reform are the luxury pensioners. That's completely absurd! We have now asked in writing what cost this would cost. The answer that was given was, there will be less payments and more payouts. What that finally means in total is not said. But we want to know that because I think it's important to show that this... – No, it's not inside, I've read it. [[Federal Minister Schelling: Then you did not read the request properly!]] [[Federal Minister Schelling: I will explain it to you then!]] No, it says that € 1.09 million was estimated a year and a half ago, and this time the same amount again. I'm sorry, it just doesn't work out! –All right, okay, then you can explain anyway why this is estimated. [[Federal Minister Schelling: Then you have to read the questions! The question you asked was answered; the other was not asked!]] In order to solve this problem, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr Finanzminister, I also know that you are basically the wrong address, but I believe that the basic problem is also the distribution of competence, since the financing and expenditure responsibility is not in the same hands. And a pension reform can not only be done on the back of the insured normal mortals, but it must all do something about it.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e56154	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Gamon is properly supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e56218	Next speaker: Mr Auer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e56239	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As far as Mr Rossmann's speech is concerned, we could have known before what he is doing here, because it has always been the same for years – whether as an expert in the Committee on Budgets or here since he was sitting in Parliament: The budget would be wrong, it would be null and void, it would be risky, it would be problematic, and it would be the wrong strategy anyway. If you could collect a tax on false prophecies, Mr Rossmann would have to pay a lot of money, which has proved to be true in the meantime. The fact is that Mr Rossmann, with his prophecies, has always been wrong, but that is his problem. There are also people who simply live by the negative attitude – and there he is very special. For our clients, he demands, like Amen in prayer, a property tax, an inheritance tax, because it would be possible to punish those who perform it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kogler: Such a nonsense! What's the performance in inheriting? Explain this once!]] Ladies and gentlemen, it should be noted that solid state finances are an indispensable basis for economic development. And one thing I also note: that Finance Minister Schelling is really different to me than a finance minister who would be called Rossmann. That would be an existential risk for this country, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I have one more request, Mr Federal Minister, that in the future negotiations on the financial compensation, there should also be a little attention to the fact that there is at last a financial balance and that there should be no imbalance between citizens and, as a result, a disadvantage to many smaller communities. Finally, 70 years after the end of the war, there should no longer be grounds that there are different levels of population equal to the level of war in order to remedy war damage. This argument has lost nothing here. We really must try to find a balance in the sense of a task-oriented financial balance.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e56313	Next, Mr Magistrate. Houses to speak. It is also permitted to get on the way towards the end of the speaker's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e56335	Mr President. Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Auer, you have referred to the subject, which is also a major concern to me and our group, namely at least to mitigate the really unfair financial balance following the downgraded population key in the course of these compensatory negotiations, which are to be concluded in 2016. What is the situation of the communities? – In 2013, 45 percent of all municipalities in Austria reached a final decision in the ordinary household. 45 percent of the municipalities were therefore unable to cover their expenditure by means of revenue. The situation will worsen next year, as, due to the tax reform, € 400 to 500 million less will be distributed – less money for countries, less money for municipalities. [[Abg. Kogler: Yes, the countries! Everyone's got to save!]] In addition, the situation, especially in rural areas, is that the costs of road networks, water and waste water supply – if I take up the discussion on education: we are school holders – explode, minimum security, health, care et cetera. The gap between revenue and expenditure is unbelievably apart. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If this situation is not mitigated, the economic situation will also be slowed down, because the municipalities are an incredibly important economic engine. In addition, it is very important to modify this graded population key. I have only received a request from you, Mr President. [[Abg. Krainer: You can't get a request! An answer!]] If you look at these figures – of course knowing that Vienna is at the same time a city and a country – you can see that, for example, every municipality citizen in Vienna gets €3 019 per capita, while the citizen gets €886 in my home community. [[Abg. Rädler: This is imbalance!]] This imbalance, which cannot be justified by nothing, must at least be mitigated! There is a need for financial compensation to strengthen rural areas, so we ask.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e56426	Mr Schelling has now come to terms with Mr Finanzminister. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e56447	Mr President. High house! Estimated citizens! A few brief comments on the topics that have now been discussed during the treatment of the last subgroups. Mr Fuchs is no longer there, but perhaps he can be executed: With regard to carousel fraud, we have put a question to the European Union, and as a small country we would like to be a pilot country. This request has been tabled, and it is not right for Mr Fuchs to say that he has already been rejected. . I would think that the signals are going in the direction that the Commission will present another proposal. We will, of course, immediately examine this proposal in order to determine whether it brings about effects similar to what we have done and presented with the reverse batch. Mr Fuchs said during the last debate that we should comply with the laws. I would draw attention to the fact that VAT in particular is a European competence, with a directive that is not so easy to use. It's not national sovereignty. But if you wish – then you will also want to realize that when this reverse-charge thing is implemented unilaterally, a procedure will immediately come to us. I just mean that we are negotiating with the Commission for some time now and that we are in a good way with these negotiations, and the Commission has promised that it will examine our request. [[Abg. Tamandl: The Lord Fuchs should know this!]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: He knows well! This is what the Minister of Finance reads from his books!]] If you just tell me what you're discussing, I'd like to give you an answer, but otherwise it won't do anything. No, it's not that important. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: I only discussed with Mrs. Tamandl!]] In any case, we have tabled this request. We are now waiting for a response from the EU Commission, so we have not failed. Secondly, we have set up a national task force with seven countries. We will build a system of a bilateral quick response, in order to be able to deal with the issue of carousel fraud control for the time being, because – I have already explained this – my colleague from the Czech Republic – they are much more affected than we are – said that the average lifetime of a company involved in a carousel fraud is 24 days, the shortest life span is 8 hours. This does not even go beyond the time limit until the VAT declaration is issued. On the topic of cold progression, I promised to introduce a model to the government by the end of the year. This model has been developed by us in the Ministry of Finance and has already been handed over to the coalition partner for further consultations. We have already developed what has been proposed here as a model and are in corresponding discussions. Mr Rossmann, I must say this: You somehow have some sort of selective perception. [[Abg. Rädler: Not since today!]] Two things have to be taken into account when reading the Commission's report: Firstly, at a meeting of the Committee on Budgets, you said that we would not be able to calculate the costs of refugees. I said: I'm negotiating, not you. The result is that refugee costs are calculated ex post. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Rossmann: I didn't say that! I said that was not agreed!]] – I say that I meant: I'll deal with this, and I'll guarantee you that we'll come up with a solution. She's here, too. The answer to your question, which measures have been discussed, is: None, because this sentence, if you had read it carefully, refers to all countries. [[Abg. Rossmann: This is under the heading “Austria! ”]] You can read it selectively again, as you need it for your argumentation. It is clear that, unlike you, I was present at the meeting and I know what was said there. [[Abg. Kogler: But he read it!]] Therefore, I can tell you that the call to all countries has been made for the measures presented in the budget to be implemented. Of course, it is true that no further measures were required at all. You should have seen that there are ‘additional measures’, but there is only ‘measures’. I also do not understand why you are submitting this motion for a resolution. What about making autonomy in the sense of tax autonomy? There will always be a minimum tax rate on corporate tax, at least in Austria, and the variation whether or not the tax will be higher is also clear. That is why this is no contradiction at all to what you have been completely horrified at, as you say. The basis of assessment is currently under intense negotiations at European level. I assume that a proposal will come back soon, and you know that this is a matter of agreement. On the questions of those who ask parliamentary questions in such a way that they get the right answers and then believe they have got the wrong ones: Your request referred to the deposits in the UG 23. In the UG 23, from the beginning, since the law was passed, €1.2 million have been planned, which are also upright. In total, the amount is about €7 million, and this amount is distributed to completely different UGs, since the Ministries, the National Bank, the social security institutions and the like is concerned, but not the UG 23. Therefore, I can also tell you that our calculations have shown that what you are saying is that the tax reform here is likely to lead to an aqueousing is not happening in the form. At the same time, those who have higher incomes actually also have pensions, also by increasing the basis of assessment, and this will probably be fairly balanced. That means it is not to be expected that the €7 million will not be reached. You can make a further request so that you can quote it properly. What I'd just like to ask for is: If you make things public, then they should be right, because otherwise we have to make it clear again. – Shame for the effort! Finally, I would like to thank all the Members of the House for their discipline during these 14 days. It was exciting days. It was an exciting dialogue, from the hearings to now just before the vote here in Parliament. We will do all we can to ensure that this budget, which we have presented, is implemented with a very, very tight budget implementation accordingly. Everyone has said that a budget is always risky, but we have put it in such a way that we have estimated it correctly and conservatively from our point of view and that we can therefore implement this result, which we present here as a budget. Let me say one more thing, because the debate on the structural deficit is getting hot again and again and that the Commission has a different assessment in this regard: In 2014 it also had a different assessment, in 2015 it had a different assessment and in 2016 the Commission will probably be mistaken. But I have already said the following in my last speech, and I ask you to take it with me again: There is a country in Europe with 1.4% structural deficit, which is considered to be so to speak, as the procedures are different. There is a country with 2.4 percent structural deficit, which is considered to be almost balanced. And now I'm gonna ask you again: Why is it not considered to be balanced if a country submits 0.65% structural deficit? That is why we will have to talk about this methodology. We will need to clarify how these calculation methods are running, and then we will have a very clear picture of the fact that what we have presented to the Commission has also been positively evaluated. The letters sent to us by the Commission have just as critical comments. They are entitled, but mainly go in the direction of two measures: first, the level of government debt and second, towards the too slow process of structural reforms. In this respect, I have announced that we need more courage, more speed in order to finally represent the budgets of the next and the following years accordingly.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e56597	Mrs Bayr is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e56618	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The OECD Development Assistance Committee defines when and how the support costs for refugees should be calculated on the so-called ODA quota, almost the development payment rate. Austria has always been using this very excessively, as well as the billing of fictitious study places and debts. The OECD subsumes in this context among refugees not only Geneva Convention refugees, but also people who are in need of humanitarian protection, that is, people who are currently coming to Austria in particular. The costs of the first 12 months of care shall be charged to the ODA. For example, basic services, transport costs, accommodation, catering, but also language and training are taken into account. other, which are integration measures, also not deportations, returns, return shipments, costs for federal army, soldiers or border security. The Österreichische Forschungsstiftung für Internationale Entwicklung ÖFSE assumes that in 2015, using the OECD's criteria very excessively, it will be possible to account for € 460 million. This is comparable to the total sum of multilateral development cooperation for this year, which is also equivalent to 55 percent of the total ODA quota in Austria 2015. In 2016, the OPSE assumes a number of € 550 to € 700 million, which would be calculated on the ODA quota. In 2016, we would therefore have a share of development-related payments of 0.56 percent of gross national income. We have the objective of reaching 0.7 percent of GNI for development cooperation. I do not want to reach the 0.7 percent by receiving, caring for as many refugees as possible in Austria and by taking account of these costs. I would like to reach the internationally agreed quota by financing a truly good international development cooperation, bilateral and multilateral, and not by global redistribution by people who have to come to us due to poor living conditions. I would like to reach the ODA quota through human rights-based development cooperation based on the principles of ownership, rule of law, democratic governance, peace and other such criteria. I wish myself a good life for everyone where they live, so that people don't have to flee to us at all. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e56669	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e56691	Mr President. Federal Minister! I would like to use a few minutes to put forward a motion for a resolution on behalf of our colleague Christiane Brunner, which corresponds almost to the concerns of the previous speaker. [[Abg. Rädler: Why isn't she there?]] – Yes, I hope it landed well in Paris for the climate conference. An aspect of future flight is certainly the matter of climate change – this is how all experts demonstrate it. This has a completely different impact in different countries. Again, it is unfair that those who are dependent on development cooperation, i.e. the poorest, are the most affected. That is why – I am going to cut off the whole reason – there was a good idea in itself, in whose co-financing Austria is back behind, in order not to say, almost across the stable, namely that these countries should be given support from the Green Climate Fund, so that this is understood as a credibility signal, but of course also for meaningful ecological and thus ultimately economic investments on the ground. They can't always afford this, so it's good if we put our hands on it, and the public hand makes a little bit loose. That's quite reasonable. What's going on? Many countries are moving in the right direction; Austria's just in the back. In Paris in August, Hollande referred precisely to this fund: “Without the 100 billion dollars promised from 2020 on, there will be no agreement at the climate summit in Paris.” That is why all and in particular the richest countries in Europe should not settle behind them, but go ahead. The Federal Minister knows the subject, he always reacts a little bit to it, because we also want it not to be due to existing environmental expenditure, since Austria is increasingly falling back with its environmental activities in the ranking. You also have to see that – whether it's the eco-taxes, other environmental things. We were pioneers in many areas in the 1990s, now we are in the bad middle, often already in the back. That's dramatic! That is why I now make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] That seems logical to me, too. This, hopefully, is well-founded and brought in, and we are already waiting for a little different way of dealing here than before, because we have heard enough Sunday speeches. There are a few specialists for this!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e56755	This motion for a resolution has been properly tabled and is therefore also under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e56854	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Schools. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e56875	Mr President. Estimated Minister of Finance! You have completed a proper programme this year: the tax reform, the HETA, Greece, now a budget – all with a very large approval! People outside expect more from you. The last words in your speech went in the direction of reform. We are glad that reforms are planned in our country, and I am very glad that the distribution of tasks will also be discussed in the context of financial compensation. People are waiting! We need movement in the design of the processes. EU accession has changed some of the things we still do not find, and we will have to meet the federal financial framework together with the countries and communities. People's circumstances have also changed, and some of them simply have to become more modern and fleeting. I am thinking, for example, only of the question of construction or of construction or of electricity, of animal husbandry or of plant protection law in agriculture, or perhaps also of the question of hygiene products or certificates for export. A federal state cannot confirm that a dairies from three federal states receive their export certificate with a witness. We have many ambiguities, which are eliminated, and we trust you, Minister of Finance, to do so. It's not about anyone defending responsibilities, it's about making life possible and moving into the economy. And there, I think, we're on a good path with you. – I wish you all the best.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e56912	Mr Hable came next. The 5 minute speaking time you are reporting is at the same time the remaining speaking time of your club. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e56934	Mr President. High house! Federal Minister! Yes, the budget debate is going to take place. I would like to draw up a budget area during the remaining period, namely financial market stability – in other words, that area, the budget chapter, where many tax billions have flown into banks and where, of course, we ask ourselves the question: Is the end of the flag bar reached or what risks are still in the budget? – There are two areas in particular. The first area is the HBI. This is the Hypo Bank Italia, the often forgotten hypo daughter – the hypo was active not only in the Balkans, but also in Italy. After all, this was the second largest subsidiary bank after that in Croatia. This is also the bank daughter who was in the headlines with painting in the leasing business and corresponding criminal proceedings. There have also been fines for the management of the Italian banking supervision. That's just mentioned as Gustopückerl on the edge: These fines have been paid by the bank, i.e., ultimately by all of us, by the taxpayers. - So much for it. What interests me with the hypo Italy is the €200 million, which is set as a precaution. We have now received written answers to our questions in the Committee on Budgets – but I still do not know why exactly €200 million – whether this has a concrete background to this amount. And the second question that arises for me and which is also unanswered: If the hypo Italy is to be used up, then why do we have to put something on it at all? So if these remaining assets... [[Interference of Federal Minister Schelling.]] - Uh, on settlement. But settlement means the settlement of assets. That means you have to get something back when you handle assets. And I don't understand why we still have to put €200 million on it. Second point: the well-known Heta. There is also a question of capital utilisation or of why Parliament has no information on the process of capital exploitation. And I am now taking away the answer from the Ministry of Finance that the task of the HETA is and that financial market supervision would somehow be involved. – Well, the financial market supervision, as the name says, is a banking supervision, so these are not recovery specialists. I don't know what know-how they have to be able to judge whether there's anything right about it. And that's the key. It's got a reason why I'm asking: Mr. Federal Minister, I am also provided with information from the left and the right, that, in these recovery processes, too, in the current, ongoing, paintings are again happening, that money is diverted again, and that is due to all of us, at the expense of taxpayers. That's state property now. That's why I ask here so deliberately: Why don't we have any information? Why do we not know anything about the external consultants, which are obviously also on the phone? Why don't we know what mandate they get? Why don't we know anything about proceeds? Why don't we know anything about the original exhibit that was present in these projects that are being used? The only thing we get from the HETA is nothing-thinking aggregate numbers. And that's far too little to be able to judge if everything goes right. – And I'm afraid not at all. Therefore, Mr Finanzminister, my open and honest appeal – you as the owner have at least the opportunity to request the information –: Get the information! In the interests of taxpayers, provide the information on these recovery processes for Parliament! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e57003	The next item is the speech by Mr Fazekas. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e57024	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The discussion on this chapter is also about taxes. And when you talk about taxes, you absolutely do not get past the chapter of the tax reform, because of course the taxes will change a little. But much more important is the very essential news that, with this tax reform, the Austrians will have net more in their wallet next year. And that is, I mean, very positive, and it is very important to carry it over and over again. But what is the benefit of all those employees of “target point”, about 2,700, who are facing the very difficult situation before Christmas, to watch how their company has to report insolvency?- Oh, my God! A resolution by the Liberal Group has already been tabled in the morning, and my colleague, Mr Wimmer, has already mentioned why what was requested in the request, namely that the Federal Government should advance the payment of salaries. [[Abg. Kitzmüller: You can always find excuses!]] But – and this is now the essential message, ladies and gentlemen, because I believe that here in the House we all have the interest of helping these people quickly and uncomplicated – Social Minister Rudolf Hundstorfer and the union with Wolfgang Katzian have now reached the top in permanent negotiations with the banks that the employees of “target point” can definitely withdraw their money from their banks without interest being charged, so that they are not faced with this difficult situation before Christmas. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Höbart.]] I think we should recognize this in the sense of these people, for whom it will not be easy, and I wish the employees that they have success, together with the trade union, with the Social Ministry, that the best result for them all and for their families will come out. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e57078	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Haider. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e57099	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Federal Minister, I know that in the past you have had to make a lot of criticism about the registers scheme, you will have to make a lot of criticism on this issue in the future, and I am also very sure that in the next few months we will be very, very, very many repairs on this failure. We must have law on us and we will still have this issue very, very often in this House. It is quite simply a matter of not creating practical and practical opportunities for entrepreneurs, small businesses. It is interesting that, in this context, the various country organisations of the ÖVP and the ÖVP's Landtagsclubs are obviously of this opinion and have already taken resolutions, decisions, where you are asked to find practical solutions, where you are asked to double the turnover limits that are contained in your law and also to find practical solutions. So I'm going to make it very easy for you now. I have been concerned about these decisions, for example, from the Lower Austrian Land Day – thank you, Dr. Rosenkranz – and from the Upper Austrian Landtag, where the ÖVP has decided at last to find practical solutions with the other political groups, including the Freedoms, resolutions. Dr. Fuchs, Dr. Rosenkranz and I have therefore formulated a request that I am submitting here. [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] One more time, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen: This was decided with ÖVP votes in Upper Austria and Lower Austria in the Landtag. I cordially invite you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, to join your colleagues in Upper Austria and Lower Austria. To this end, we will also request a roll-call vote so that we can see exactly who voted in Vienna as his colleagues in the federal states did.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e57194	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Haider is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e57273	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Big. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e57294	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. At the end of this day I want to lose a few words on the UG 44 – financial compensation. The tax reform affects all local authorities, so the revenue remains unchanged. Nevertheless, municipalities and countries manage to show an increase of 2.2 percent in the budget. In particular, the objectives of action are interesting. The objective of Article 3 is to ensure that the financial situation is as faithful, complete and uniform as possible. Thank you for implementing the regulation accordingly after 41 years. Thank you for being carried out together with the Article 15a agreement, and thank you for having transitional provisions here for the communities so that our communities can adapt to it in the short and medium term and carry out this change in such a way that it also works. Article 4 is the reform of the financial compensation. – We have heard a lot about justice today, about tax justice. In this respect I blister in the same horn: I would like to see the effect of a fair financial statement in the future. I'll be right there. We set up the ARGE “Justice in the Financial Balance” in the ÖVP Club, and already 550 municipalities have issued a resolution for the abolition of the graduated population key. I hope that justice will not only take place where it fits, but justice means that everyone is the same, and even the rural population is worth as much as the rest. – Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e57334	The next item is the speech by Mr Riemer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e57355	Mr President. Federal Minister! Of course, it is a sad, but very important issue to ensure the full tax deductibility of donations for animal welfare. In the 2009 tax reform, the deductibility of donations to associations and institutions that pursue themselves generous purposes, provide development and disaster aid or collect donations for these purposes, for private or even for self-employed persons was introduced. Unfortunately, donations for animal protection have only been made by God since the 1st century. January 2012, and this is only possible in a very limited area, namely only for grants within the meaning of § 4a EStG 1988 to facilities that run or collect donations for such purposes. I agree to make the following request in this respect – because it is important –: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr. Federal Minister, for you it is a small step, for animal protection and for dedicated animal protectionists and associations a big mile and a wide distance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e57410	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Riemer is properly supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e57465	Next speaker: Mr Lipitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e57486	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! For three days we have discussed this budget, which is a discharge for the Austrians, a boost in the economy, of investments in social and future areas. But also a labour market package with the content of economic growth strengthen and relieve labour and active labour market policies are included here. I would just like to point out a few points: 5 billion € will be granted to Austrians in the coming year. €300 million is spent directly on the labour market, with special attention being paid to the 50-plus generation. In the care sector, the care fund is increased and the care allowance increased by 2 percent. The family allowance will be increased. Infrastructural measures for road and rail in the amount of €3.8 billion are directly related to labour market policy, €300 million is available for broadband development and another €50 million for funded housing. That's how you could continue, but I can't do that for reasons of time. I can only say one thing about this budget: It is a budget with a great deal of attention, and I also believe that this budget will last, just like all the other budgets before.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e57518	Mr Klubobmann Ing. Lugar is the next one to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e57547	Mr President. High house! Since everything has already been said practically after two weeks of budget marathon, it is certainly reasonable to think about whether it is happening at all what we are doing here. [[General hustle and bustle.]] - Yeah, that's worth a thought. We have spent two weeks discussing a budget that will be decided on a point of order, except for a few points by the majority today. That means: As last week in the Committee, what about wasting our time with a discussion that ultimately leads to nothing? In the same way, these three days in plenary could be loosed to one day, perhaps even to a agenda item in a session, because ultimately the lost “kilometres” are. It's about making reforms. We cannot make reforms here in Parliament – I hear this criticism every year! I have been in this House for a long time, and every year I listen to the budget debate, after the budget week again and again the criticism: Can't we make this shorter? Can't we cut that off? Is that necessary? You too, Mr Minister, always have to sit here and you must also have better things to do, and I assume that once again I am very strong. That is, if we manage to make reforms in Parliament in order to finally shorten these budget weeks, then you, Mr Minister, perhaps also create a budget in which reforms stand. Because this budget, which is now available, would have brought together your predecessors. That would have brought Pröll, Fekter, Spindelegger, who were all party soldiers, together, and I did not expect you to be a party soldier, and I do not think you are a party soldier, quite the contrary. I think you would have been a huge chance for Austria – if you had done what we expect of you, namely: Since you are independent and certainly not dependent on the EIA, you could have made the reforms that we need in this country so urgently. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] We see that we really do not have a federal government that manages Austria, no, we have a federal government that holds the countries. The countries hold a federal government and dictate what has to be done. As Minister of Finance, you would have had the opportunity to finally do something against the countries, because the countries are like vampires who have sucked on the budgetary bloodstream – and you would have the opportunity to put it on a diet. Do you know how this goes? – This can be done by showing the countries the stop-table in the financial compensation process by saying to the countries: Either we're making reforms today or I'm turning you around. That's where you can meet them, or nowhere else. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] If you only want to stay as long as possible as possible, and if you do not want to deal with the countries – especially with the uncle Erwin from Lower Austria, who is the Upper Blocker in this Republic – then I can or do not have to tell you that you will be exchanged anyway on the next occasion. [[Abg. Kogler: He's working on it anyway!]] It may be that it will take a few more years for this opportunity to come, but you will be exchanged because what you have done to the countries has already been enough for the countries to exchange you. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] That means that you now have the opportunity to finally do what is necessary, which the Court of Auditors has also said for decades, namely finally to limit the countries. You'd have this opportunity. Then you could go into history as the first finance minister who actually moved something that actually made reforms. This opportunity would be yours, Minister of Finance! I hope you take it. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] As you are hopefully not dependent on the ÖVP – I guess you are not dependent on it – I have to tell you as a citizen and as a taxpayer: Please take this opportunity too! Finally, go to court with the countries hard, and explain to the countries that it cannot continue like this! We have the problem of continuing the same budget each year. Of course, there are changes here and there, but the reforms that are now calling for are simply not happening. So, Minister of Finance, take a heart! Will you be the Minister of Finance, whom we have initially given to us, not only us, but also other political groups, because we have believed that you are a courageous Minister of Finance? I hope that you will still be able to expect in time that in Austria a reform can only be made against the countries. You're the only one who can do this. All the others can't, these are all party soldiers; You'd be the only one who could do that. That is why – and as soon as Christmas is – I wish myself something, as a taxpayer and as a citizen. I'm hoping for a Christmas miracle and that you'll finally get there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e57624	Mrs Tamandel's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e57645	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Finance! Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Lugar, you have said that you have been here in the House for a long time. Yes, you were in three different parties – and once even “wild” delegates. [[Abg. Lugar: A lot of experience!]] That's what you see on your political line that you have here in the house. On the subject of Finance Ministers: The Minister of Finance is a courageous man, and the Minister of Finance is a self-confident finance minister. [[Abg. Lugar: Really?! Where?]] He has already shown this in the reforms he has made, he has shown this in the resolution of the HETA, and he has shown this in the tax reform. He has conducted very hard negotiations with the countries, Mr Lugar, but if you are interested only in populism, then of course you have nothing left for true facts. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Lugar.]] Mr Lugar and others, one of whom has said today that we have not made reforms and that they are not visible in the budget, and the others have said that there is a tax reform that is none, has been written into the parent book – and I would like to remind you now – that it is a tax reform that includes 5.4 billion €, which includes a wage tax reduction and income tax reduction of almost €5 billion, which reduces small and medium-sized income by an average of €1,000 and which includes an increase in negative tax from €110 to €400. So these are the small incomes, of which Mr Rossmann always says they have nothing to do with the tax reform. So if it's nothing that anyone who doesn't pay a wage tax gets back 400 € by automatic tax compensation, Mr Rossmann, I don't know what you're dreaming about. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rossmann.]] Then I come to the topic of dreams: If the redistributors here in the high house and also outside of this house believe that you can divide something before you take something, then you have deceived yourself, because if no one is paying into the tax system anymore, then you can't take anything out. We are among those who work daily, who also pay their taxes very well. We must relieve them and look at them, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Lugar, recalling: We have already tabled a comprehensive amendment to the Committee on Budgets, most of which reflects the labour market summit of the social partners with which we are reducing the additional labour costs with which we are introducing a bonus malus system and with which we have already shown that we are making changes to the budget, although reforms must already be implemented. In this respect, I would like to express my sincere thanks to the chairman of the Committee on Budgets, not only to the Minister for Finance, but also to his staff, who – all who were there – know this in an excellent way and How these short-term questions, which had to be in Parliament within a few days, have answered. I would like to thank the Directorate for Parliament; the staff have provided a service for Members for hours, but of course also for the presidents concerned. I would also like to thank my alternates very much, and not least Dr. Berger and the staff of the budget service, because without the budget service, these good analyses would not have been achieved for Members and for their activities. I believe that if we make a close to two-week period of the budget debate happen today, we can say with fug and right that there are always very constructive and very good debates in the Committee, because the public is not present and the opposition does not need populism. At the plenary session in the High House, populism then strikes, and then, unfortunately, the constructive political interest of God stands in the background.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e57748	The next item is the speech by Mr Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e57769	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Kogler: Even the ÖVP at the speaker's desk says that heirs are an achievement!]] – Mr Kogler, would you like to make a difference with my colleague Tamandl? I think it's about inheriting and whether it's a performance. Of course, this is not because the only achievement that a person achieves that inherits is the birth; and the birth is a performance for which every living person can prove it. [[Call at the FPÖ:But building an inheritance is an achievement!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Tamandl]] That is why this question, I think, has been clarified relatively simply. However, I believe that there are five very good reasons – because we are actually talking about the budget here – to support this budget. The first reason is that taxes are falling on work. We know that we have a problem that in Austria those who work pay too much taxes and that those who, for example, inherit or have capital and assets, pay too little taxes, especially in international comparison. What this budget does is it reduces taxes and taxes on work; and that is good. The second good reason is that those who have capital and assets will make a higher contribution in the future. This means that those who make too little a contribution today will be higher in the future. The third good reason is that the debt decreases. This means that at the end of 2016 we will have a lower debt level than at the end of 2015. The fourth good reason is that investments are rising. This means that we are investing in jobs, growth, research and development in the future. That's a good thing. The fifth good reason is that we will have more jobs at the end of 2016 compared to 2015. That is why we, as Social Democrats, are very happy to vote in favour of this budget. Finally, I would like to thank not only the staff of the Federal Ministry of Finance for their work, for their support, for the budget service in the house, as well as for the staff of the Parliamentary Directorate, but of course also for our staff in the clubs, in the political groups and for our parliamentary staff who are supporting us in doing this difficult work that we have done in the last four weeks. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e57822	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Rosenkranz. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e57844	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I come to the request made by Mr Haider on registers and other economic shocks. I believe that this measure should belong more to the House of History than to the House of the Future. Therefore, we ask you to agree to this request. Above all, this appeal is addressed to those Members of the ÖVP who come from Lower Austria, because it is a request which corresponds to a request made by the ÖVP from the Lower Austrian Parliament, which was adopted by a large majority there. Of course, the Lower Austrian National Councillors of the ÖVP have been seen in a beautiful photo in a very important Lower Austrian weekly newspaper; they have said that they support this initiative of the ÖVP Lower Austria and the Lower Austrian Landtag. Only: As valuable as this weekly newspaper, with a photo inside it, is, is voted here in Parliament and not in the newspaper. [[Complaints and bravaders at the FPÖ.]] Therefore, I should like to agree with the colleagues from the EIA on all the shortcomings that still exist, but I would like to say that: If you don't know. At €30 000 a medium-sized company is located, then it is probably not very far from the competence of a former ÖVP economic party. But we make it easy for you: We accept an ÖVP proposal literally and bring it into the debate. I thank you now for your consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e57882	Mr Rädler spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e57906	Mr President. [[Oh, call at the FPÖ.]] Federal Minister! Dear Member Rosary from Lower Austria, I have to make an actual correction. It's not right,... [[Abg. New builder: You were also in the photo!]] I wasn't in the photo, I'm not in the Lower Austrian Landtag, but we discussed it. [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] We also have our own opinion on this, and we will make it known in good time. [[Abg. Kogler: What is the fact? Who are we?]] The actual correction is that with this resolution in the Landtag, we have not decided what FPÖ wants, namely that all medium-sized companies are exempted from the registry obligation. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ.]] That's not true!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e58001	The next item is the speech by Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e58022	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Finance! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear spectators on the gallery and in front of the televisions! Three days will be their tribute. After a short period of tiredness, we have now noticed that a brief discussion is still taking place in this budget debate. I would like to thank Mr Krainer for the parliamentary staff, the staff in the Ministry of Finance, who have certainly delivered a huge performance with figures and documents. However, I should also like to remind you of the discussion, namely that some issues should be discussed in advance and not dealt with if we take the suggestions of the opposition seriously, in the committees and here in plenary. Mrs Tamandl, I think it is not at all appropriate to blame opposition populism because, I think, it is precisely the opposition that always brings other ideas which would be very beneficial to this state, to which we are very proud, if it were not to be held for so long, and which would also be felt by the local population. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach]] [[Abg. Prince: There is the right one to speak!]] I believe that this approach to grand justice in all the political decisions we are making here in this House, which have an impact on the climate that has an impact on the environment, which has an impact on jobs, on the economy, on industry, on families, on the entire welfare state, is essential that we review these decisions and survive what we decide here. We should ask ourselves whether it is about political change, whether it is about the government line or whether we work together for the benefit of citizens. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] That is, I think, very essential, and that is why I will continue to do so soon. Today, Hard Facts and Soft Facts were spoken of. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Yes, Mr Rädler, you can then proceed to the correction. Mr Minister, we have already talked about the fact that a rapid, effective measure would be the reintroduction of mineral oil tax return on agricultural diesel. I would like to thank Mr Jannach for his group's support and to submit a motion for a resolution which, if agreed, would have an immediate effect on the regional economy on the ground, on the construction industry, on the agricultural machinery industry, on trade in agricultural machinery and on the regions. In this sense, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] We ask for support and approval. Minister, I gave you the floor that if we get it, we'll save military music. That's what we're gonna do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e58102	I should like to point out that the motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supportive and properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e61011	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e61032	Perhaps it would be more effective and more serious if the motions for resolutions were not tabled as the last speaker. If I hadn't reported, he would have been the last speaker at all. Why do I report? – Just so you know what you decide here if you want to do it now. There are a few very big questions for the future. [[Abg. Kickl: A bite up with the micro! You don't hear anything!]] Thank you. – That was the environmental issue. We have already said where the failures lie. It is certainly the topic of education, and then – you can't ignore it in these days and weeks – the big question of possible global justice and then how we deal with refugees of war. Let's go to education. – A very short time ago, my colleague Harald Walser received a reply from the competent Federal Minister to his brief question. Walser therefore asked how high the deficit in education will be. That's what he meant. The Minister also replied, literally, with the concept of arrears. She said that according to current forecasts, the wrong amount is € 550 million – much more than what has already been known as too big a gap. I know you have a different opinion, Mr Federal Minister, but you do not decide on the budget alone. They're bringing it in. As with the parole now, that enough money is in the system and that the early 2016 belongs only to gradually reorganized, should go, I don't know. I also do not know how the Federal Government is coordinating. You brought in the budget together. Now, just before the vote, the Minister responsible for the internal policy is probably the most important area of the future, education, announced a loss of € 550 million for next year. You from the SPÖ must now explain how you deal with this information. What are you doing?- Oh, my God! Apart from the fact that these answers might have been able to truffle before the treatment of this breakdown – that would have been better – it is better if they have become known now than never – even if You will then have a worse conscience if you go home if you haven't already given it to the wardrobe and then wanted to trigger it again. On another thing: The question of the teaching of the World Food Programme has always played a role. This has originally been a minimal amount and now it is not a great one. The discussions in the Committee were a Fiasco. You don't even figure out how to do it. All the ministers responsible are pushing this around like a hot potato. That's a shame in such a subject! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It's still not exactly clear. They know – only so that it is clear when we talk about the amounts – that at the summit with Turkey the amount of € 2 to € 3 billion is being juggled around – with whatever background and purpose. [[President Hofer gives the bell sign.]] If it were €5 billion – with this you can do something – it would be between 2 and 3 cents per European and 3 cents per day. It was about survival, but I would use it differently than for the negotiations with Turkey. Mr President. I'm done. If it were €50 billion – do you know what you could do about life and death on the spot? – then it would be 25 cents per European and European per day. [[President Hofer gives the bell sign again.]] I'm just saying that so you know, but let's see what's going on with your conscience.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e61097	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e61118	Mr Rädler! Even if it was only a supposed actual correction of your side and therefore I can't make any correction to it, a little more time left to talk about it is left to say quite clearly: What Mr Rädler said can be closely compared with the words of some knowledge of the comprehensive reading of the home page of the Landtag of Lower Austria and the Stenographic Protocol, in which the request of the Freemans is to be found: This is an identical application. We will, of course, allow ourselves to publish this. If there is a problem that this is accessed somewhere in the area of the computer, is downloaded, looked at, because it does not have all the skills to do so: I assume that some daily or weekly newspaper can make it comparable and printable as an advertisement, where you can read it.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e61149	There are now no more words. The debate is closed. Does one of the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. Ladies and gentlemen, before we come to the vote, I should also like to thank the mandates for the great discipline in recent days and also for the debate that has been marked by a great deal of expertise. [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] I would also like to thank the staff of the House and, in particular, Dr. Berger and the staff of the Budget Service. [[General condolences.]] We shall now proceed to the vote – this will take some time – which I shall make separately with each of the Committee's proposals. We shall first proceed to the vote on agenda item 5: Draft federal law amending the Federal Financial Framework Act 2015 to 2018 and 2016 to 2019 as well as the Federal Finance Act 2015, including the title and receipt in 819 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That too is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 6: Federal Finance Act 2016 and investments in 820 of the supplements. Hiezu is a request of the honourable Member Mag. Haider on separate vote on division 02 and 05 of Appendix I – Federal estimates 2016. First, I will vote on Appendices I to IV and then on the text of the Federal Finance Act 2016 and, in accordance with the classification, I will vote the parts affected by the request for separate vote. I will have the resolution tabled on the draft Federal Finance Act 2016, together with the amendments to the Annex, vote in the order of submission following the third reading. Annex I Federal estimate 2016 We come to a separate vote on the division 02 – federal legislation in the version of the government template. Whoever stands up for this, I ask for a sign in this regard. – This is accepted by the majority. Furthermore, we reach a separate vote on division 05 – Public Prosecutor's Office in the version of the Government's proposal. Whoever stands up for this, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We are now voting on the remaining parts of Appendix I – Federal Estimate 2016, including overall overviews (Annexes I.a to I.e) as amended by the Government template. I ask those Members of the House who give their consent to it to give a positive sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Annexes II to IV We shall also vote on Annexes II to IV: Annex II, Federal Staff, which provides for third parties – gross representation 2016, Annex III Financing, Exchange of Currency – Gross presentation 2016, Annex IV Staff Plan 2016, in each case in the version of the Government template. I would like to ask for a sign on this subject if I agree. – This is accepted by the majority. Text of the Federal Finance Act 2016 Now we reach the vote on the text of the Federal Finance Act 2016 and the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. I would ask those Members of the House who are voting in favour of a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. This concludes the second reading on the Federal Finance Act 2016 and investments. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions submitted to item 6 in the order in which they are put in place. First of all, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Scherak, ladies and gentlemen, on the additional financial resources of the Constitutional Court. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall also be voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Brosz, colleagues, and others, on increased funding for quality promotion in the training of journalists. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gamon, by Dr Moser, by Mr Moser, on the adequate financial resources of the Court of Auditors. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Zanger, colleagues, on ensuring the necessary budgetary and human resources for the Court of Auditors. I ask for a sign if I agree. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Brosz, colleagues, on the removal of press support for 'now'. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Belakovich-Jenewein, colleagues on the merger of social security schemes. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Lausch, colleagues and others on the resolution of the judicial service agency. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We now come to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mrs Hübner, ladies and gentlemen, on no EZA benefits for non-cooperative developing countries in the withdrawal of their citizens. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Windbüchler-Sushill, colleagues on the increase in multilateral and bilateral development cooperation. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Members. Vavrik, Windbüchler-Sushill, Hagen, colleagues on Development and legal anchoring of a level plan to increase EZA funds up to the target of 0.7%. I ask for a sign if I agree. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Mölzer, colleagues and colleagues on the effect of a more intensive promotion of German minorities in the successor states of the Austro-Hungarian monarchy. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Darmann, ladies and gentlemen, on the exclusion of NGOs from participation in the field of asylum. I ask for a sign if I agree. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Members. Kumpitsch, ladies and gentlemen on the tax allowance and man-made equipment for executive officials. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Schellhorn, colleagues on access to the labour market for asylum seekers. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kickl, colleagues, on: Enforce fair procurement law and best bidder principle. Whoever stands for it, I'm looking for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall also proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gamon, colleagues in the field of automatic retirement. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Pirklhuber, colleagues in relation to urgently needed aid to Syria by the WFP. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Steinbichler, colleagues, on the report on imports of oils and fats. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kitzmüller, ladies and gentlemen, on the immediate end of the estrangement of the funds from the family compensation fund. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Mühlberghuber, colleagues, on the adjustment of family allowances for children abroad to the cost of living abroad. The vote has been called for here. As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. That's why I'm doing this. The ballots to be used are in the drawers of the Members' House and bear the name of the Members and the name "Yes" – these are the grey ballots – or "No" – which are the pink ones. Only official votes can be used for the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I would like to ask those Members who vote in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Mühlberghuber, ladies and gentlemen, to vote 'Yes', those who vote against, to cast 'No' vote. Please be careful to throw only one vote mark! I now ask the rapporteur, Mrs Lueger, to begin the call for name; Mr Gahr will replace them later.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e61664	The vote will end. The officials of the House responsible for this task will now make their votes under the supervision of the Correspondents. The meeting will be suspended for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e61702	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. Members cast: 169; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 41, No votes: 128. The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Mühlberghuber, ladies and gentlemen, is therefore rejected. According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Anger; Belakovich-Jenewein, Bösch, Brückl; Darmann, Deimek, Dietrich, Doppler, Fuchs; port plotter, haider, houser, hoebart, courter, nicer; Jannach; Karlsböck, Kassinger, Kickl, Kitzmüller, Kumpitsch; Lausch, Lintl, Lugar Robert; Mölzer, Mühlberghuber; Neubauer Werner; Riemer, Rosenkranz Barbara, Rosenkranz Walter; Schellenbacher, Schenk, Schimanek, Schmid Gerhard, Schrangl, Stefan, Steger, Steinbichler, Strache; Refusal torpher, Winter. Members voted with ‘No’: Amon Werner, Antoni, Aslan, Aubauer, Auer, Bacher Walter, Bayr, Becher Ruth, Berlakovich, Brosz, Buchmayr, Bures; Cap; Diesner-Wais, strike-through; Ecker, Ehmann, El Habbassi, Ertlschweiger, Eßl, Fazekas, Fichtinger Klaus Uwe, Fekter, Fichtinger Angela, Franz; Gahr, Gamon Claudia Angela, Gerstl, Gessl-Ranftl, Glavischnig-Piesczek, Grillitsch, Groiß, Grossmann, Gusenbauer-Jäger; Hable, Hakel Elisabeth, Hammer Michael, Hanger Andreas, Haubner, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Himmelbauer, Hofinger Manfred, Höfinger Johann, Holzinger-Vogtenhuber, Huainigg; Jank, Jarmer, Jarolim; Karl, Katzian, Keck, Kirchgatterer, Knes, Köchl, Kogler, Königsberger-Ludwig, Kof, Korun, Krainer Kai Jan, Krist, Kucharovich, Kucher, Kuntzl; Lithuania, liptic, lopatka, lueger Angela; Matznetter, Maurer, Mayer, Moser, Mückstein, Muttonen; Rebaur Kathrin; Obernosterer, kilnauer, ottenschlager; Pendl, Pfurtscheller, Pillow, Pirklhuber, Plessl, Pock, Preiner, Prince; Rädler, Rasinger, Rauch Johannes, Rossmann; Schabhüttl, Schallhorn, Scherak, Schieder, Schittenhelm, Schmid Julian, Schmid Julian, Schmier, Schönegger, Schopf, Schultes, Schwentner, Sieber Norbert, Singer Johann, Spindelberger, Steinacker, Steinhauser, Strasser, Strollz; Tumandl, daughters, door; sub-railers; Vavrik, Vetter, Vogl; Walser, Wenninger, Wimmer, Windbüchler-Souschill, tiny, Wittmann, Wöginger; Yılmaz; Zakostelsky, Zinggl.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e61881	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Pock, ladies and gentlemen, on FLAF's structural reform rather than on the path of debt. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[Abg. Neubauer: Grillitsch was for this!]] – It is still rejected! [[General hustle and bustle.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Strolz, Dr. Walser, Members of Parliament on the withdrawal of party policy from the school administration. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Strolz, colleagues on the possibility of pilot projects which are autonomous of schools. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ing. Lugar, colleagues on ‘Private school for all with educational check-ups’. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Gamon, colleagues and colleagues on the possibility of comprehensive pedagogical autonomy. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Schimanek, colleagues, on the preparation of a study on the current situation of Muslim women and girls in Austria. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gamon, colleagues and colleagues on sustainable budgeting of the FWF. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a sign. – That is the minority and therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr MMMag. Dr. Axel Kassinger, colleagues on the abolition of economic sanctions against the Russian Federation. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall also proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ing. Lugar, colleagues on "Österreich's economic location: Release Plan for Entrepreneurs’. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ing. Lugar, colleagues and colleagues on “Stop the criminalisation of economic operators and traders – savings in the public sector to counter-finance tax reform”. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Alm, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to real-economy investment exemption. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ing. Höbart, colleagues and colleagues concerning the Federal Government's contribution to the payment of outstanding salaries for target-point employees. The vote has been called for here. As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. That's why I'm doing this. The procedure is known: I would ask those Members who are voting in favour of this motion for a resolution to vote in favour of 'Yes', those who vote against, 'No' vote in favour. Please be careful to throw only one vote mark! I now ask the writing to carry out the name call.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e62051	The vote will end. I am interrupting the vote for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e62092	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. Members cast: 166; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 59, No votes: 107. The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Ing. Hoebart, ladies and gentlemen, is therefore rejected. According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Angerer, Aslan; Belakovich-Jenewein, Bösch, Brosz, Brückl; Darmann, Deimek, Dietrich; Fuchs; Glavischig-Piesczek; port plotter, haider, houser, hoebart, courter, nicer; Jannach, Jarmer; Karlsböck, Kassinger, Kickl, Kitzmüller, Köchl, Kogler, Korun, Kumpitsch; Lausch, Lichtenecker, Lintl, Lugar Robert; Maurer, Mölzer, Moser, Mückstein, Mühlberghuber; Neubauer Werner; Pillow, Pirklhuber; Riemer, Rosenkranz Barbara, Rosenkranz Walter, Rossmann; Treasure, Schellenbacher, Schenk, Schimanek, Schmid Julian, Schrangl, Schwentner, Stefan, Steger, Steinbichler, Steinhauser, Strache; Walser, refuser, windbüchler-soushill; Zinggl. Members voted with ‘No’: Amon Werner, Antoni, Aubauer, Auer, Bacher Walter, Bayr, Becher Ruth, Berlakovich, Buchmayr, Bures; Cap; Diesner-Wais, strike-through; Ecker, Ehmann, El Habbassi, Ertlschweiger, Eßl, Fazekas, Fichtinger Klaus Uwe, Fekter, Fichtinger Angela, Franz; Gahr, Gamon Claudia Angela, Gerstl, Gessl-Ranftl, Grillitsch, Groiß, Grossmann, Gusenbauer-Jäger; Hable, Hakel Elisabeth, Hammer Michael, Hanger Andreas, Haubner, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Himmelbauer, Hofinger Manfred, Höfinger Johann, Holzinger-Vogtenhuber, Huainigg; Jank, Jarolim; Karl, Katzian, Keck, Kirchgatterer, Knes, Königsberger-Ludwig, Kopf, Krainer Kai Jan, Krist, Kucharovich, Kucher, Kuntzl; Lettenbichler, Lipitsch, Lopatka, Lueger; Matznetter, Mayer, Muttonen; Rebaur Kathrin; Obernosterer, kilnauer, ottenschlager; Pendl, Pfurtscheller, Plessl, Pock, Preiner, Prince; Rädler, Rasinger, Rauch Johannes; Schabhüttl, Schellhorn, Scherak, Schieder, Schittenhelm, Schmielschlager, Schönegger, Schopf, Schultes, Sieber Norbert, Singer Johann, Spindelberger, Steinacker, Strasser, Strollz; Tumandl, daughters, door; sub-railers; Vavrik, Vetter, Vogl; Weninger, Wimmer, tiny, Wittmann, Wöginger; Yılmaz; Zakostelsky.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e62277	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Houses, colleagues and colleagues on the withdrawal of the increase in VAT on accommodation. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall also proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek, ladies and gentlemen, on the removal of the flight charge. I ask for a sign if I agree. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Worm, Schittenhelm, colleagues and colleagues on “Generatlas as Gender Budgeting Resource”. [[Call the FPÖ:Yes! That's important!]] Whoever stands for it, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. (E 115.) We are now coming to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Lichtenecker, colleagues on the financing gap to achieve the objectives of the FTI strategy by 2020. I ask for a sign if I agree. – This is the minority. Therefore, it is rejected. Next, we shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hafenecker, colleagues and colleagues on the buyback of the former Hainfeld–Weissenbach railway line at the ÖBB. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority. Therefore, it is rejected. We shall also proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Angerer, colleagues and colleagues on Cargo Combi Terminals in Fürnitz. I ask for a sign if I agree. – This is the minority. Therefore, it is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Steinbichler, fellow Members, on 'Time value as the basis of the premium calculation of cash insurance'. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority. Therefore, it is rejected. We shall also proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Pendl, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Schönegger, Dr. Bösch, Hagen, Mag. Alm, Dr. Pilz, colleagues on ÖBH 2018. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a positive sign. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 116.) The next item is the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Hagen, colleagues and colleagues, on 'Special cultural budget for the preservation of military music'. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority. Therefore, it is rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Hagen, colleagues and others on 'Increasing the defence budget in a way'. I ask for a sign if I agree. – This is the minority. Therefore, it is rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Dr. Bösch, colleagues on the immediate suspension of the 2018 structural package. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority. Therefore, it is rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Bösch, ladies and gentlemen, on the use of land-based defence services in assistance. I ask for a sign if I agree. – This is the minority. Therefore, it is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ddr. Fuchs, colleagues and colleagues on the abolition of the ‘Kalten Progression’. The vote has been called for here. As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. That's why I'm doing this. The procedure is known. I would like to ask those Members who are in favour of this motion for a resolution, 'Yes', those who vote against, 'No' vote in favour. It's just a vote. I now ask the writing to begin with the name call.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e62443	The vote will end. I am interrupting the vote for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e62477	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. Members cast: 167; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 68, ‘No’ votes: 99. The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Ddr. Fuchs, colleagues and colleagues on the abolition of the ‘cold progression’ is therefore rejected. According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Angerer, Aslan; Belakovich-Jenewein, Bösch, Brosz, Brückl; Darmann, Deimek, Dietrich, Doppler, Fuchs; Gamon Claudia Angela; Glavischig-Piesczek; Hable, oats, haider, houser, hoebart, courter, moubner; Jannach, Jarmer; Karlsböck, Kassinger, Kickl, Kitzmüller, Köchl, Kogler, Korun, Kumpitsch; Lausch, Lichtenecker, Lintl, Lugar Robert; Maurer, Mölzer, Moser, Mückstein, Mühlberghuber; Neubauer Werner; Pillow, Pirklhuber, Pock; Riemer, Rosenkranz Barbara, Rosenkranz Walter, Rossmann; Schatte, Schellenbacher, Schenk, Scherak, Schimanek, Schmid Gerhard, Schmid Julian, Schrangl, Schwentner, Stefan, Steger, Steinbichler, Steinhauser, Strache, Strolz; Vavrik; Walser, refuser, windbüchler-Sushill, winter; Zinggl. Members voted with ‘No’: Amon Werner, Antoni, Aubauer, Auer, Bacher Walter, Bayr, Becher Ruth, Berlakovich, Buchmayr, Bures; Cap; Diesner-Wais, strike-through; Ecker, Ehmann, El Habbassi, Ertlschweiger, Eßl, Fazekas, Fichtinger Klaus Uwe, Fekter, Fichtinger Angela, Franz; Gahr, Gerstl, Gessl-Ranftl, Grillitsch, Groiß, Grossmann, Gusenbauer-Jäger; Hakel Elisabeth, Hammer Michael, Hanger Andreas, Haubner, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Himmelbauer, Hofinger Manfred, Höfinger Johann, Holzinger-Vogtenhuber, Huainigg; Jank, Jarolim; Karl, Katzian, Keck, Kirchgatterer, Knes, Königsberger-Ludwig, Kopf, Krainer Kai Jan, Krist, Kucharovich, Kucher, Kuntzl; Lettenbichler, Lipitsch, Lopatka, Lueger Angela; Matznetter, Mayer, Muttonen; Obernosterer, kilnauer, ottenschlager; Pendl, Pfurtscheller, Plessl, Preiner, Prince; Rädler, Rasinger, Rauch Johannes; Schabhüttl, Schieder, Schittenhelm, Schmielschlager, Schönegger, Schopf, Schultes, Sieber Norbert, Singer Johann, Spindelberger, Steinacker, Strasser; Tumandl, daughters, door; sub-railers; Vetter, Vogl; Weninger, Wimmer, tiny, Wittmann, Wöginger; Yılmaz; Zakostelsky.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e62669	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ddr. Fuchs, ladies and gentlemen, on negative tax on compensation recipients. The vote has been called for here. As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. That's why I'm doing this. The procedure is known. I would like to ask those Members who are in favour of this motion for a resolution, 'Yes', those who vote against, 'No' vote in favour. It's just a vote. I now ask the writing to begin with the name call.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e62737	The vote will end. I am interrupting the vote for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e62771	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote: Members cast: 166; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 56, No votes: 110. The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Ddr. Fuchs, ladies and gentlemen, on negative tax on compensation recipients, is therefore rejected. According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Angerer, Aslan; Belakovich-Jenewein, Bösch, Brosz, Brückl; Darmann, Deimek, Doppler; Fuchs; Glavischig-Piesczek; port plotter, haider, houser, hoebart, courter, nicer; Jannach, Jarmer; Karlsböck, Kassinger, Kickl, Kitzmüller, Köchl, Kogler, Korun, Kumpitsch; noise, lights, lints; Maurer, Mölzer, Moser, Mückstein, Mühlberghuber; Neubauer Werner; Pillow, Pirklhuber; Riemer, Rosenkranz Barbara, Rosenkranz Walter, Rossmann; Treasure, Schellenbacher, Schimanek, Schmid Gerhard, Schmid Julian, Schwentner, Stefan, Steger, Steinhauser, Strache; Walnuts, windbühler-suushill, winter; Zinggl. Members voted with ‘No’: Amon Werner, Antoni, Aubauer, Auer, Bacher Walter, Bayr, Becher Ruth, Berlakovich, Buchmayr, Bures; Cap; Diesner-Wais, Dietrich, perforation; Ecker, Ehmann, El Habbassi, Ertlschweiger, Eßl, Fazekas, Fichtinger Klaus Uwe, Fekter, Fichtinger Angela, Franz; Gahr, Gamon Claudia Angela, Gerstl, Gessl-Ranftl, Grillitsch, Groiß, Grossmann, Gusenbauer-Jäger; Hable, Hakel Elisabeth, Hammer Michael, Hanger Andreas, Haubner, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Himmelbauer, Hofinger Manfred, Höfinger Johann, Holzinger-Vogtenhuber, Huainigg; Jank, Jarolim; Karl, Katzian, Keck, Kirchgatterer, Knes, Königsberger-Ludwig, Kopf, Krainer Kai Jan, Krist, Kucharovich, Kucher, Kuntzl; Lettenbichler, Lipitsch, Lopatka, Lueger Angela, Lugar Robert; Matznetter, Mayer, Muttonen; Obernosterer, kilnauer, ottenschlager; Pendl, Pfurtscheller, Plessl, Pock, Preiner, Prince; Rädler, Rasinger, Rauch Johannes; Schabhüttl, Schenk, Scherak, Schieder, Schittenhelm, Schmielschlager, Schönegger, Schopf, Schultes, Sieber Norbert, Singer Johann, Spindelberger, Steinacker, Steinbichler, Strasser, Strollz; Tumandl, daughters, door; sub-railers; Vavrik, Vetter, Vogl; Refusal torfer, Wenninger, Wimmer, Minzig, Wittmann, Wöinger; Yılmaz; Zakostelsky.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e62953	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Rossmann, colleagues: Ecological taxes – reduce taxes on labour. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Therefore, it is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Loacker, colleagues in relation to luxury pension reductions regardless of the development of the maximum contribution base. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Therefore, it is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Kogler, ladies and gentlemen, with a view to increasing international climate finance before climate conference. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Therefore, it is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Haider, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to compensation for the obligation to register. The vote has been called for here. As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. That's why I'm doing this. The procedure is known. I would like to ask those Members who are in favour of this motion for a resolution, 'Yes', those who vote against, 'No' vote in favour. It's just a vote. I now ask the writing to carry out the name call.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e63064	The vote will end. I am interrupting the vote for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e63098	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. Members cast: 166, of which ‘Yes’ votes: 45, No votes: 121. The motion for a resolution by the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Thus, Haider, ladies and gentlemen, on compensation for the registration obligation, is rejected. According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Anger; Belakovich-Jenewein, Bösch, Brückl; Darmann, Deimek, Dietrich, Doppler, Fuchs; Gamon Claudia Angela; Hable, oats, haider, houser, hoebart, courter, moubner; Jannach; Karlsböck, Kassinger, Kickl, Kitzmüller, Kumpitsch; Lausch, Lintl, Lugar Robert; Mölzer, Mühlberghuber; Neubauer Werner; Pock; Riemer, Rosenkranz Barbara, Rosenkranz Walter; Schellenbacher, Schenk, Scherak, Schimanek, Schrangl, Stefan, Steger, Steinbichler, Strache, Strolz; Vavrik; Refusal torphere. Members voted with ‘No’: Amon Werner, Antoni, Aslan, Aubauer, Auer, Bacher Walter, Bayr, Becher Ruth, Berlakovich, Brosz, Buchmayr, Bures; Cap; Diesner-Wais, strike-through; Ecker, Ehmann, El Habbassi, Ertlschweiger, Eßl, Fazekas, Fichtinger Klaus Uwe, Fekter, Fichtinger Angela, Franz; Gahr, Gerstl, Gessl-Ranftl, Glavischnig-Piesczek, Grillitsch, Groiß, Grossmann, Gusenbauer-Jäger; Hakel Elisabeth, Hammer Michael, Hanger Andreas, Haubner, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Himmelbauer, Hofinger Manfred, Höfinger Johann, Holzinger-Vogtenhuber, Huainigg; Jank, Jarmer, Jarolim; Karl, Katzian, Keck, Kirchgatterer, Knes, Köchl, Kogler, Königsberger-Ludwig, Kof, Korun, Krainer Kai Jan, Krist, Kucharovich, Kucher, Kuntzl; Lithuania, liptic, lopatka, lueger Angela; Matznetter, Maurer, Mayer, Moser, Mückstein, Muttonen; Obernosterer, kilnauer, ottenschlager; Pendl, Pfurtscheller, Pillow, Pirklhuber, Plessl, Preiner, Prince; Rädler, Rasinger, Rauch Johannes, Rossmann; Schabhüttl, Schaarder, Schittenhelm, Schmid Julian, Schmid Julian, Schmier, Schönegger, Schopf, Schultes, Schwentner, Sieber Norbert, Singer Johann, Spindelberger, Steinhauser, Strasser; Tumandl, daughters, door; sub-railers; Vetter, Vogl; Walser, Wenninger, Wimmer, Windbühler-Souschill, Winter, tiny, Wittmann, Wöinger; Yılmaz; Zakostelsky, Zinggl.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e63285	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Riemer, fellow Members, on the full tax deductibility of donations for animal welfare. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Therefore, it is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Steinbichler, Mr Jannach, Mr Jannach, on 'Re-introduction of mineral oil tax exemption in the case of agricultural diesel'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Therefore, it is rejected. The agenda is exhausted. [[20:10:10]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-24-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00104_d8e63338	I am still announcing that self-employed requests 1436/A(E) to 1465/A(E) were tabled at today's meeting. Please still sit, there are two additional assignment sessions. The next meeting of the National Council, which will deal with business communications and allocations, will be convened at 8.10 p.m., immediately following this meeting. This meeting is closed.
