ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e5262	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Minister! I wish you a nice good morning and open the 73. Meeting of the National Council. The Official Protocol of 72. Meeting of 4. In May 2015, the European Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. Deputies Antoni, El Habbassi, Lettenbichler, Ovenauer, Kunasek, Schrangl and Jarmer are reported as preventable. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e5293	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following statement: The Federal Minister for Europe, Integration and External Affairs Sebastian Kurz is represented by the Federal Minister for Justice Dr. Wolfgang Brandstetter. I also announce that the current hour and the current European hour will be transferred live from ORF 2 to 11.55. ORF III will be transferred to this meeting in full duration, with that part of the meeting, which goes far beyond 19.50 a.m., being sent forward from 23.30 a.m. [[09:06:59]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e5328	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: “NSA and BND against Austria – how can we protect ourselves?” Mr Pilz is the first speaker to speak. I give the floor to you and draw attention to the fact that your speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e5352	Madam President. I believe that not only we in Parliament were surprised when, in recent days and weeks, we have learned to what extent and in what way the data of Austrian telecom users and users are selected by the American intelligence service NSA. But what surprised us all even more was that the friendly service, at least from the point of view of the Ministry of Interior, namely the German Federal Intelligence Service, did not support us in the espionage defense, but itself acted as a kind of Telekom vacuum cleaner of the NSA across Europe. I am now briefly describing the system to you and asking the Minister of State to address what our constitutional protection actually knew about it, because the competence of the espionage defence clearly lies with the Federal Office for Constitutional Protection and Anti-Terrorism. It's like I mean to know our good right: What did the Ministry of the Interior know? [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: nothing!]] What did our Constitutional Protection know? And what has been done on the basis of this knowledge? Now, specifically, on the facts: In 2004, it was known in Germany in the Federal Intelligence Service that the NSA was using the Federal Intelligence Service. And there have become known internally in Pullach and Bad Aibling at the Federal Intelligence Service so-called selectors, such as EADS. Suddenly the alarm bells ringed in Germany, and they said: For God's sake, it is against German people and against German companies, we turn it off! This is why the business management contract “Transit” was signed on 1 January. March 2004 between Deutsche Telekom AG and the Federal Intelligence Service was closed with a single goal, namely no longer German, but only telecom connections that do not have their origin and end in the Federal Republic of Germany, the so-called transit lines. [[the speaker shows the corresponding document]] Then the NSA, with a list of all transit lines on the decisive and dominant nodes of Frankfurt in hand, painted yellow on the basis of this contract, all lines to be spanned by the BND. [[The speaker shall keep a document up to date.]] What happened then? – The BND has rented a rent of €3,500 at Deutsche Telekom, installed the technology and completely channeled these lines that the NSA wanted, which transmits the data to Pullach, from Pullach to Bad Aibling in Bavaria, where the Joint Intelligence Activity of BND and NSA was sitting. There the agents of the NSA were with their selectors, and with these selectors they evaluated all the data that went through these lines. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Insanity! Incredible!]] These were telephone calls, e-mails, text messages, which was the Internet and these were other services, including millions of data from Austrians, Austrian companies and Austrian offices. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Scandal! That's not funny!]] - Well, we know that now. And then we started research and found an e-mail that I published last Friday. In this e-mail, a Telekom employee turns to a BND man, Mr. Helfrich to Mr. Siegert, and says: ‘Hello Mr. Siegert, Mr. Knau has turned on a STM 1 again today – one of these lines – “there is now no national traffic in it (for this reason also the big changeover action took place). The link Ffm 21 Luxembourg (...) has been connected to (...) points (...). Four of the 2MBit lines in this section are on their first priority list, which can be found on: Channel 2’, and the first is called Luxembourg-Vienna. So, that's what happened, that's the German Telekom's execution report to the Federal Intelligence Service: Yeah, we sucked off, we copied all the data, we sent it on to Bad Aibling to NSA. This data theft, this criminal attack by the Federal Intelligence Service and the NSA on a management of Telekom Austria AG has been proven, and this does not need to be discussed. I then went through these lists and found that there are ten further lines of Telekom Austria AG, only in this list. [[The speaker holds a document again]] If you have used the Linz-Amsterdam, Salzburg-Amsterdam, Vienna-Sydney, Vienna-Moscow, Vienna-Stockholm, Vienna-Dublin, Vienna-Jakarta, Vienna-Manila and many others, you can certainly assume that he or she has been sucked off by the NSA and processed with selectors. Now, Mrs Bundesminister, we come to a crucial point: What are these selectors? – Selectors are terms or numbers that help to clearly identify a person or a company. A name is a selector, a mobile phone number, a credit card number, certain contacts, frequent flyer numbers and, and. If one has about five selectors, then one can clearly determine a person and evaluate them very precisely and in detail via such charges. These selectors are from the American Embassy – we have this document, and I made it available to the Foreign Minister months ago – and these selectors have been purchased by the CIA on behalf of the then American Foreign Minister Hillary Clinton in Vienna. [[the speaker shall keep a document up to date]] This document is available to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and there are the mobile numbers, the credit card numbers and, and, of all UN employees. All have been pioneered in the face of the Austrian Constitutional Protectors, in the face of the Austrian Ministry of Foreign Affairs. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Incredible!]] And what happens now? – We have in Vienna a joint establishment of NSA and CIA, special monitoring facilities working with antennas on the American Embassy, on the mission to the UN City and in the Pötzleinsdorf NSA Villa. Mrs Bundesminister, I would also ask you: Do you know that these facilities are now being modernised at this hour? Do you know that American technicians in Vienna are currently mounting new antennas in the face of constitutional protection? You know this is all going on right now? You know that? [[Abg. New builder:... Nobel Peace Prize!]] Does that know about the protection of the Constitution? Is anything done to prevent that? Do you know that the “level” reported that NSA has long hacked the OSCE’s computers and sucked off the entire internal traffic? You know that? Do the constitutional protection officials read the “spiegel ”? It is not only about questions to the Ministry of the Interior, it is also about questions to Telekom AG, to Telekom Austria. What do they know? Did they protect their customers? Why is there not the slightest Mucks from the Board of Directors of Telekom Austria AG since this affair became known? Do they know about the distractions? If not, because that happened behind their backs, what legal steps do they take against the Deutsche Telekom, against the BND and against their compliments? The next item is the following: The only contract with the NSA that exists in Austria is between the Army News Office and NSA. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Incredible!]] [[call to the FPÖ.]] We are in the secret subcommittee for the control of intelligence services, and I cannot reveal any secret. It is no secret, however, that our Minister of Defence is still refusing to answer at all the question of whether this treaty exists. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] [[Abg. New builder:... in France!]] As Members of Parliament, we cannot even know whether this Treaty exists. We are forbidden to control, and completely uncontrolled, our Minister of Defense ensures that data from the military news office goes to the NSA – directly. That's unsustainable. [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of NEOS and FPÖ.]] I am very, very glad that, just a few weeks ago, as the Austrian National Council, we, with our unanimously adopted resolution, commissioned the Federal Government to clarify everything, to take all diplomatic steps against those who are politically responsible for these attacks and to hand over everything that is criminally relevant to the public prosecutor's office. Mrs. Federal Minister Mikl- Leitner, I recognize that you have paid ad, but against unknown perpetrators. From this place I would like to point out: They're not unknown perpetrators, they're known perpetrators! And I expect a Minister of Interior and a Constitutional Protection, from a Minister of Defense and a Army News Office, to persecute known perpetrators and protect the Austrian population, our citizens, our fellow citizens and our companies from the obituaries of the NSA, the GCHQ and the Federal Intelligence Service. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e5512	Ms Mag. Federal Minister for Agriculture, Federal Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development, asked for an introductory opinion. Mikl's head of business. Your speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e5530	Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen at the visitor gallery! Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! In recent weeks, in connection with the Committee of Inquiry on espionage activities in Germany Allegations have been made that the NSA, in close cooperation with the BND, has spyed out or spied out institutions and countries of the European Union. According to media reports, Austria is also affected. No doubt these accusations have found an eerie medial echo. And these accusations, ladies and gentlemen, are serious: serious as regards security in Austria, but also safety in Europe, particularly as regards cooperation with other countries in general. So let me begin by making it clear that, of course, we take these accusations seriously by the Republic of Austria that of course these accusations also need to be resolved quickly and comprehensively. That is where we start at three levels: at the level of justice, at the level of politics and at the level of diplomacy. The Constitutional Protection has also responded promptly and has immediately reimbursed ad against unknown according to § 256 criminal code. In addition, the civil servants of state protection are associated with the German security authorities. [[Abg. Pillow: Oy!]] I too have been in personal contact with the German Minister of the Interior de Maizière by telephone and have requested extensive information, and of course the Ministry has also been informed about our criminal charges. So you see, on the basis of the steps taken, that we are doing everything we can to clarify the accusations in order to clarify the facts. It is important to us that the Ministry of the Interior works hand in hand with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Justice. What are we talking about? – It is about quickly and objectively clarifying what is actually present in facts. And my job as an interior minister is not to take part permanently in any speculation or in any pre-conceptions, but my job as an interior minister is to keep me on facts, just as it is the task of the employees. [[Abg. Moser: That's at the table!]] What about the co-imported accusations? . I would like to refer to the alleged evidence by Mr Pilz for BND's espionage activity. Mr President, you have submitted an e-mail at a press conference, which is ten years old and from which you have also quoted in your speech. In this, a member of the so-called Resa of Deutsche Telekom informs someone from the German Federal Intelligence Service, first that another STM 1 has been connected, in which there is no national traffic now, second that the route mentioned in the e-mail has been connected, third that four of the 2 megabit lines in it are on the BND’s first priority list, and fourth, one of these routes is described as “Luxembourg/VG – Vienna/000”. You will, of course, rightly ask yourself: What's that supposed to mean? – Yes, that can mean a lot, but it can't be called. [[Abg. Pillow: No, it can only be called one!]] [[Abg. Steinhauser: But this is not a lot of responsibility!]] I do not want to give a technical presentation here, but to understand the facts, I would like to tell you what my experts say in this ten-year-old mail. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Pillow.]] First: Resa means ‘Regional Office for State Special Editions’. At Deutsche Telekom, there are four of these regional offices which are set up to cooperate with the German security authorities. Telekom is also obliged to do so under German law. The abbreviation STM mentioned in the e-mail can stand for many things. In this case, it appears that this is the name of a transmission standard in fibre-optic networks, which is standardised by the International Telecommunications Union. To point 2: The fact that there is no national traffic in the STM 1 means that no internal German data are transmitted in the established link of the fibre optic line from point A to point B. [[Abg. Brosz: Now repeat what the Lord...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] To point 3: The fact that the aforementioned link is on the BND's first priority list means that it was obviously important to the BND that this link was established. To point 4: The fact that one of these routes is referred to as ‘Luxembourg/VG – Vienna/000’ simply means that there is a line from Luxembourg to Vienna. [[Abg. Brosz: What do you want to tell us with the...?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] These are the facts. But we don't know who this management belongs to, and we don't know what's going on about this line either. Is it a transit line for long-distance calls or is it an internet line, or is it something else? [[Abg. Brosz: Or something else?- Oh, my God!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] I can only assure you that the investigations are on high-speed. I can assure you that the first priority is to inform you that we also meet the need for information. But I am not in favour of us making preconceptions and that speculations are simply taken as truth untested. First of all, we need the investigation work, and our officials are very busy working on it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Moser: You had ten years!]] By the way, only yesterday from German security circles via Austria Press Agency announced that spying activities could not be derived from the published e-mail. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, this current hour is also dedicated in particular to how Austria can protect itself from attacks and attacks in the cyber area. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] I believe that the basic prerequisite for this is that in this respect, especially among citizens, businesses and the authorities, we create sensitivity and awareness that cybersecurity is a very, very essential and central issue of the future, a subject where it needs, above all, a general social approach and for which everyone and everyone can contribute. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: What is there...?]] [[Abg. Pirklhuber: If it's not a spy, then what is it? Is it data clau?]] [[Abg. Wöginger: That's crazy!]] [[Abg. Brosz: (in the direction of Federal Minister Mikl- Leitner) That's really crazy!]] [[Abg. Pilz: This is a BND explanation! That's a shame!]] It is just as important, however, that we develop and define rights and obligations by the authority for the virtual world, just as we have defined rights and obligations in the real world. To do this, a cybersecurity law – which is being worked on – needs to be implemented, where it will be particularly challenging to reconcile innovation, technology and law. We want to create legal certainty with this cybersecurity law in the future, above all we want to guarantee and guarantee data protection requirements and, above all, strengthen Austria's economic location. However, as in many areas, we must not, of course, stop at the national borders, but we also need a common European approach. That is why I am also pleased with the goal of regaining a little more sovereignty in the cyberspace, which, in particular, needs a digital single market. Europe must focus on innovation in this respect, on technology, on cybersecurity products, in order, as I said, to regain more sovereignty and, above all, to be able to cope with cyberrisks. In particular, the NIS Directive, which will come in autumn – Commissioner Oettinger has promised that this NIS Directive will be adopted in autumn – is important, in my opinion, a first important step towards a functioning digital single market with stable data security standards. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Aha! Then we're all happy again!]] But back to the precepts concerning state protection. – As the name says, our state protection is in place and is aimed at protecting Austria and its citizens: protecting them from exaggeration, protecting them from terrorist attacks. Yes, and in order to ensure this, it is of course necessary to cooperate with other countries, especially the cooperation with other state protection institutions. This, ladies and gentlemen, is not about the general exchange of data convoys, but about concrete information, concrete information in specific cases of suspicion. [[Abg. Moser: And why is everything then sucked off?]] If a suspected jihadist is arrested with us in Austria, it is of course our duty to obtain information in other countries as well: Is there any suspicions about this person in other countries as well? Has this suspect already become striking in other countries? Is there already some information there? It is clear to us that, as a police authority, the protection of the state must, of course, comply with very clear legal rules, that there must be a high level of attention and proportionality, and that, of course, there is a great deal of attention, in particular, of control by the legal protection authorities, by the data protection authority and also by Parliament. [[Abg. Pirklhuber:... state protection sued?]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e5805	We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other participants at the current hour according to § 97a Para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 5 minutes. The first speaker is Mr Klubobmann Mag. On behalf of the PPE Group, I should like to thank the Commissioner for his - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e5829	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A nice morning I also wish the audience on the gallery and in front of the televisions! Pioneering or – as she called it – “Exploring among friends, that’s not possible at all!” – This is a quote from Angela Merkel, who then formulated it as the question of whether the USA had spyed out Germany and stopped her cell phone. In the meantime, it is also here that even quotations become a boomerang, because now we have to ask the question to the German Chancellor as the head of the German administration, whether or not we are talking about friends who are not at all, does not mean that Austria is not at all possible, even if Austria is perhaps under the help of the German secret service, at least it is in a suspicion in this regard, and the American intelligence service has been pioneered. It is still unclear what really happened, but this is a very serious situation, because in Austria, the legal situation – similar to that in Germany – is quite clear: There is a fundamental right to data protection. ‘Each person shall be entitled, in particular in respect of respect for his private and family life, to the confidentiality of the personal data concerning him, in so far as there is a legitimate interest in it.’ This is the beginning of the Data Protection Act, and an essential strength of our rule of law is the fact that powers of police and intelligence services are clearly defined and democratically controlled, especially controlled by Parliament. Any intervention shall be justified in detail. Strict controls are carried out as follows: the services of the Ministry of Defence by the Parliamentary Subcommittee of the National Defence Committee, the services of the BAT by the Parliamentary Subcommittee of the Internal Committee. In addition, there is an independent legal protection officer who can take note of every act and operation of the intelligence services, and we have the Austrian Data Protection Council as the most important advisory body of the Federal Government and also in cooperation with Parliament. In the fight against terror – a fight that I strongly support, because I really see a fundamental threat to our fundamental rights – you have to find the right balance between security and freedom. Only one thing – and you have to say that quite clearly – is: The intelligence scandal around the German BND has nothing – I say it again: has nothing! – to fight terrorism, because if the rumor arises that Austrian politicians such as government members, public people or companies in Austria have been spyed out and tapped out, then it has nothing to do with the fight against terrorism, but then it is the most daunting form of espionage that exists, and we don't want them. [[General condolences.]] The accusations regarding BND and NSA have to be clarified without delay, and there has also been an intensive discussion in Germany about how to further clarify this question. The German Bundestag or the German government coalition has agreed to create a trustee of the Bundestag to gain insight into the NSA list, which, on behalf of the Bundestag, will also see all these files. My friend and colleague Thomas Oppermann says: If, now, an investigative officer who has the confidence of Parliament has insight into the files and also into the so-called selectors, then he can assess these processes politically precisely without having to reveal secrets in detail. For us, the question now arises how we can organise our cooperation with the German investigative officer and how we can carry out our further action. The relevant departments, the Ministry of Interior, Foreign Affairs and Justice, have already taken steps – you have to recognise this too – as an advertisement has been submitted, and actions have also been taken at the diplomatic level. Now, however, it is important to take further steps to avoid being further offended, but also to get the information we need in order to be able to assess what happened with regard to Austria. I also hope that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the responsible officials of the Interior will be able to access this information – not only on our side, but also on the Visas – but also say one thing: If this fails, we need to consider further steps here in Parliament, either a model of how it is going and what is going on in America, namely that the intelligence committee gets all the information in all its hardness and even has the budgetary authority for the intelligence services there – we have to consider, of course, whether we look away from the model for ourselves – but we could also consider whether, if we do not get to the information in a normal diplomatic way, we might perhaps copy this model of the German Bundestag with a investigative officer. But it is not as far as it is, because now it is about the competent authorities of our Federal Government following exactly the steps they have already begun so that we can see that as quickly as possible – it is also a point; it is not about the Sankt-Nimmerleins day, but it is about getting the information about what really happened as quickly as possible. The situation is serious and unfortunately also serious among friends.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e5876	The next item is the report by Mr Amon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e5894	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I am quite surprised because my colleague Pilz is twittering the following: ‘Current hour. The Minister of the Interior is presenting the BND's view, confusing facts, and desperately trying to beautify. Why?” – Do you know, the applause actually shows that you want to change political change and not take the matter very seriously; I would like to tell you that. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Yes, it is.]] [[Congratulation and bravorage of the Abg. Steinhauser.]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What bothers me at the debate, Mr Pilz: We are actually in a sense here in the House on this matter. We have adopted a joint resolution, which Mrs Federal Minister has commented in detail on the questions... – Listening [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] Now, Mrs Belakovich-Jenewein! It's not true that you can't even talk out here in the house! It can't be! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Let us listen to each other's arguments! I'd really invite you to that. The Federal Minister addressed these questions in detail. It has reported the ad that has been submitted by our BAT against the BND. [[Abg. New farmer: peace, peace!]] [[Abg. Don't be so nervous.]] . And I do not understand, Mr Pilz, why you are trying to put the whole matter into jeopardy in so far as it must be possible, on the one hand, to consider your arguments, your serious accusations, as the Minister of State has explicitly emphasized, which stand in the room in a parliamentary debate against other arguments in so far as they are quoted. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: He didn't!]] And I find it remarkable that you read it carefully, that you also listen to what the German Federal News Office says about these accusations – they are betrayal anyway, not evil! – if I may quote from the broadcast of the BND, where it is said, espionage with the help of the BND and a German telecommunications provider against these states cannot be derived from the published document details. [[Abg. Pilz: That's no proof!]] – That says a lot anyway, Mr Pilz, but please note that the e-mail you have presented leaves a wealth of possibilities open. [[Abg. Pillow: No!]] That is what Mr Pilz said – oh yes, Mr. Pilz! – the technicians who know each other in detail, and that is exactly what the Federal Minister said: It can mean a lot, but it can't mean anything either. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: What is this argument?]] That is why we will have to wait for the investigations, because there is no point in doing so, because it is not even clear whether they are transit lines for long-distance calls or Internet lines. [[Abg. Steinhauser: What is the difference?- Oh, my God!]] You just don't know, because of this ten-year-old email you submitted. [[Abg. Brosz:... has monitored the phone!]] And then, Mr Pilz... – I do not understand the excitement, Mr Brosz. [[Abg. Brosz: And what would be better if we were monitored?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Brosz: Where is the problem?]] We also think that it would not be all right for our friends to spy us out, and of course this would result in a proper mood. [[Abg. Brosz: But they have been spying on you!]] But the Federal Minister, please, is not responsible for this, because the Minister for Foreign Affairs is still the Minister for Defence with the HNA and not the Interior, which is already responsible for internal affairs according to the name. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is incontrovertible that the situation is inconspicuous. There is also the contract of Deutsche Telekom with the Federal Intelligence Service, and that is what it is called in § 1, 1. Point: “The customer intends to do so within the framework of his duties in accordance with Section 1(1). 2, 2 para. 1 No. 4 of the Federal Message Service Act of 20.12.1990 on cable-based transmission and parcel-mediated telecommunications services, which do not have their origin and their objective in the Federal Republic of Germany (“transit”)” – meaning that the whole contract is “to clarify.” [[Abg. Brosz: Right! That's it!]] So we're a sense here, we want it to come up with a proper reconnaissance, but please: Let us not exchange mutual political change! The Federal Minister has provided very detailed information and has instructed her authorities to investigate properly. Let us try to do so together, but in a matter of fact.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e6130	Next item is the report by Mrs Dr Belakovich-Jenewein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e6148	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear Mr Vorsprecher, you have given an interesting keyword: The Federal Minister is responsible for the interior. – For internal security, you would be responsible, Mrs. Federal Minister! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I do not know exactly what has driven you to come here, read and defend the opinion of the German intelligence service. [[Abg. Schönegger: A conscious twist!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] What, Mrs Bundesminister, moves an Austrian Interior Minister to defend the German intelligence service here in the Austrian Parliament?- Oh, my God! I thought I was in the wrong film, Mrs. Minister! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But you know, Mrs Federal Minister, and you know, ladies and gentlemen, especially of the ÖVP, that is exactly the problem we have here: [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] Hardly hear anything from America, you have your pants full. There is a call from over there, and for example the flight of the Bolivian President will be held for twelve hours at Vienna Airport. – All of these are your activities when America is filling a bell somewhere. Even in this case, you have no credibility. Your credibility is simply gone! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wöginger: That means if the Putin calls, it would be better? There you have better contacts!]] – What would have been then? A good word, Mr. Cot! Let's put the case, it wasn't about the NSA, but Russia would spy us out! - Well, then we have a problem! Then you would be the first to shout out loud! But when it comes to America, it is best to provide the data voluntarily. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] What happens to the villa in Pötzleinsdorf? We know we're being spyed out there! What steps has the Republic taken? – Just so, and that’s the problem! [[Call:Nothing]] You know, there's a very big problem here, and this federal government is going somewhere else. You just don't care! Once the population would have needed you, once the Federal Government had been required! I believe that you have long agreed on content, but it is the core competence of the Republic, it is the central competence of the state to ensure security, and in this core competence you have failed, and that is to say, Mrs Federal Minister! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Call the ÖVP: A cowardice!]] The fact that the Federal Chancellor makes a rather unnecessary statement about this is little surprising. He probably really believes it is. But, Mrs. Federal Minister, with you I would have expected a little more. Now stand here and say that you take it seriously – well – and speak of three levels that exist: the level of justice, the level of politics and the level of diplomacy. – What did you do on the level of diplomacy? Has You or the Foreign Minister have already quoted the Ambassador from America, the Ambassador from Germany? Did there have any conversations? In what form have they taken place? – Why don’t you tell us if you do something at the level of diplomacy? Instead, call the security authorities! Maybe the NSA was there too? Maybe they heard right away? I mean, that's all wrong, what you're offering here and what you're doing here! They leave people in the rain, according to the motto: Eyes to and through, we'll figure it out in a couple of weeks, it's gone again, we're pulling it a little bit into the ridiculous now! - That's exactly what you're doing! You have resigned and you can actually resign, because what you are now saying was the key statement of your opinion today: It can be a lot of hot or little. Col. Amon also finds the “detailed” information a great quote and also repeats it. So if that's your answer to that, maybe all UPC customers, politicians and Deutsche Telekom customers in Austria, so probably we're all here, because each of us has been logged in to one of these systems, and your answer is: That can be a lot of hot or little!, then, Madam Minister – I must tell you quite honestly – you have resigned. [[Abg. Wheelers: What secrets do you have?]] [[Abg. Stefan: This is the stupidest argument!]] You are right, Mr Amon: Of course, the Minister of Defence would also be required in this matter. Only he is currently a bit of self-defense busy – you have to understand that too – he has not yet understood why it is an uproar that he makes private vacations with the van. That's all clear. But I'm telling you, You sit here today, you are responsible for internal security – and no one else. But the line of the ÖVP is clearly recognizable. Thank you, Mr Amon, for really bringing it to the people. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] In your case, there is no If and But when it comes to voting for America's interests. They enter a TTIP without if and but, for example, TTIP also sees traffic as traffic in goods. And that's exactly how you do it here without If and But. If we are to be heard, then we will be stopped, you can't do anything. The interests of America are more important to this EIA, this EU is more important, and there you lie flat, there you are on the belly before something comes. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Rädler makes the so-called windshield wiper movement.]] – There you can shake your head or whatever you want: You've proved it yourself. Get up! Get up and say something about it! - You won't do that. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] The foreign policy pursued by this ÖVP, these diplomatic relations, which these ÖVPs operate, have already shown in recent years where the journey is going. [[Abg. Wöginger: You are flat in front of Putin! You're flat in front of Russia!]] Let me tell you one thing, ladies and gentlemen: You will also lose the next elections again, and then you will be able to regret how poor you are not. You'll lick your wounds and probably believe you don't know why it's so. – It is because you are abandoning people! The entire policy that the ÖVP has made since Kurt Waldheim has a picture of the entire American policy: You have resigned from foreign policy, you are flat in front of America, and that is the problem. The reason why people in Austria continue to be spyed out is that you allow it and promote it with your behavior!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e6355	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e6373	You have said a very serious sentence, Madam Minister of the Interior, and he has said: We are in contact with the German authorities, as if this were a soothing message. You need to know one thing: The German authorities are not our partner in the investigation. The German authorities are those who have an interest in concealment because they bear the responsibility for these actions. [[Congratulation with the Greens as well as with representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Call:This is incredible]] Madam Minister of the Interior, it's not surprising that you're reproducing the BND Sprechtsxt when you're in contact with the German authorities, and say that can all be called a lot or a little. The facts are on the table. We know that there is a transit agreement, we know it was sucked off the Luxembourg-Austria data management system, we know from the German investigative committee that foreign communication has been monitored – but then to do as if one knew nothing more precisely, is, as I think, a demise that is actually unacceptable. [[Congratulation with the Greens as well as with representatives of the FPÖ.]] Madam Minister of the Interior, I have already asked myself why Austria is always working so passively here. In Germany, the debate is also much sharper in Parliament. You have to ask yourself the question: Why are we silent? – Does it perhaps have to do with the fact that our Minister of Defence is part of this network with NSA and BND through his intelligence, that there are contracts there and that one is actually part of the international spy agenda exchange and therefore it is not credible to act internationally sharp and clear, because one makes himself ridiculous because one knows exactly, one is referring data and one allows data to be sucked off? The second reason why Austria is silent is because Austria has completely failed in the espionage defense. We are constantly discussing standard policy in Parliament, most of it is about driving down social standards. This is a completely wrong debate. Today and now we have to debate standard policy. A non-functioning espionage defense damages the location Austria! [[Congratulation with the Greens as well as with representatives of the FPÖ.]] What does a headquarter have to think that has its seat in Vienna? What does an innovative company that is based in Vienna have to think? I asked, in a parliamentary question, how you, as an interior minister, are assisting the companies in protecting their IT. Your answer was: “In principle, the companies themselves are responsible for protecting their own networks and for maintaining IT security in their own field. Discussions have been held with representatives of critical infrastructure companies to raise awareness and raise awareness in the field of cyber security.” That means you demand from the entrepreneurs that they can keep up with technically high-quality intelligence services! That is about as if you tell a citizen that he is responsible for his own security; you can't jump at him! That's unacceptable! [[Abg. Amon: You have no idea!]] What does the Austrian espionage defense mean for the location of international organizations in Austria – UNO, OSCE, OPEC? We have one of the highest density of international organizations in Vienna, and we are proud of it. A stone's throw away, at the IZD Tower, is the technical equipment to monitor precisely these organizations – but no need for action on the part of the Austrian espionage defense. That is a declaration of displeasure! But perhaps Austria is also silent, because one is actually closer to the secret services in their surveillance fantasies than the citizens and the companies that need to be protected – not in the Champions League of the great intelligence services, but in the Regional League; it can also be brutal. I'm just saying state protection law, stock data storage. In reality – and this is the problem – you see the citizens as an object of surveillance and not as a subject of protection! That is the problem, why there is nothing going on here either. [[Congratulation with the Greens as well as with representatives of the FPÖ.]] In fact, this is only oversawed by the Austrian Chancellor of the Federal Republic. In response to the NSA scandal, he says: I'm trying to live so I have nothing to hide. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with greens and FPÖ.]] Apart from the fact that one could now question whether this political strategy was not perfect for him – but let us ignore it! –: It's exactly the wrong answer. First of all, an Austrian Chancellor, even if he is called Faymann, will always be so interesting that you might be interested in what he is doing – or not. [[Abg. Pillow: No! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Not that!]] But it's the wrong answer. Why? – Not politicians, not businesses, not citizens have adapted to the intelligence services in their behaviour – no: The secret services have to comply with the laws and adapt to the rights! We're making the rules here – and nobody else. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e6500	The next item is the report by Mr Vetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e6518	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! If one follows this debate as to how one can echo over a ten-year-old e-mail and derives from it criminalistic investigations, one could somehow get the impression that both the government fractions and the group that initiated this current hour really are the privacy of people. But perhaps one can also get the impression that this is a great distraction action. Only yesterday did a bill leave the Ministry of Finance, which means the end of banking secrecy. If I compare the end of banking secrecy with the issue we're talking about today, I'm much more unwell if I know that the state wants to see all the accounts in the future. There are already negotiations between SPÖ, ÖVP and the Greens, as we know. The opening of bank accounts is the biggest attack on privacy in this country in the Second Republic. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team as well as representatives of FPÖ and NEOS.]] Everything we're discussing here is really Peanuts. That's a big, big distraction! Only about a month ago, when we were presented with the government's plans for tax reform, did it still say that only entrepreneurs' accounts should be viewed. I still meant that the next tax reform will be all accounts. – No, it is already this tax reform, which is to be viewed in all accounts! This is something that scares people – and not a foreign intelligence service, which makes two Austrian government members listen to how they plan to attack Austrian banking secrecy. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and FPÖ]] That's not it, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Podgorschek: Well, that's not part of it! I can't do that anyway!]] Let me make a little jump: We remembered and celebrated this day in these days of the conclusion of the State Treaty. One of these signat forces was also the United States of America, which we were really grateful to at the time in 1955 for its liberation and for the aid measures. This has changed a little over time, and in reality anti-American xenophobia has become the only hallowable in this world. This has changed in so far as the anti-Russian has been added. But, ladies and gentlemen, at a time when it is becoming increasingly difficult internationally – we have here and there local wars, we have a terrorism that has a bearing on how we have never experienced it – it is very delicate how we deal with our international relations. If you have also read the book “Die Schlafwandler” as it came to World War I – here a small misunderstanding, there a small sanction, there a small local conflict, and you have simply slid in – then you see that it is not quite far from being able to draw a parallel to some of the times today. It is a delicate situation today, and responsible politics is called on not to put popular adversities in the foreground, but the friendship of the people. I don't mean that you're supposed to be in breach of law under the carpet, but I mean that you're not supposed to make elephants out of mosquitoes either, that you shouldn't play things up because you're always at risk of certain things being self-employed. [[Abg. Darmann:... espionage is not a mosquito!]] The democracies in this world are such a disappearing minority, still that we need to be careful in international relations to work well with the democracies as well. If Austrian soldiers stand abroad, we also need other intelligence services to provide us with information so that our soldiers do not fall victim to an attack there. We also depend in Austria on if there are terrorist reports about an attack, we get them, and we do not scatter sand into the gear of international relations. We really need to be careful that we do not become a place of selective self-righteousness, which could ultimately fall on our mind. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e6603	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Alm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e6621	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! The scandal of BND and NSA is indeed outrageous, but that is only a small part of what we have to do with, namely a breach of confidence towards the citizens who have legitimated these authorities that are actually out of our minds. It is a break of confidence by the government towards the citizens by not taking vehement enough action here, and we will see whether your work on high-speed tours and your feverish efforts actually bring the corresponding success! They do not even submit the Treaty which Austria has with the NSA, at least not in the bodies which are intended and where parliamentary control can work. The whole thing, however, is just a facet in a much larger context, which I would call “mass monitoring”. Everything goes in the direction of monitoring citizens in a large way. The State Protection Act, which is planned, is also part of this mass surveillance. In this context, there are worrying developments in the extension of powers which are not subject to control. Although a legal protection officer is provided, it must be carried out by the authorities which he is supposed to control. However, the State Protection Act is not even in a direct context with terrorist attacks, which will sometimes result in a lot more surveillance measures and will be decided upon. Following 9/11, there were 239 anti-terrorism measures at EU level. The question is: How do these anti-terrorism measures work? - We don't know! This evaluation does not take place, and measures that do not work will not be re-established. If, in the end, there is an attitude as in the case of data storage, then this does not happen because these measures are dysfunctional, but because they contradict the fundamental rights and only then are removed by the ECJ and VfGH. [[Congratulation with the NEOS]] .. The data storage of stocks attracts many more circles: We also have to do with a financial storage of data. We are just on our way to keep further insight into bank accounts. It is seriously discussed whether to abolish cash. There is an obligation to register with the obligation to accept the Bons and, perhaps in future, to record and keep them. That is to say, any transaction in our private life should become potentially comprehensible. And the whole thing under the title: “He who has nothing to hide has nothing to fear!” [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pillow.]] But this statement is nonsense, because we all have something to hide: We have our privacy to hide, and we all fear that this privacy will be undermined. [[It was in favour of the NEOS as well as of representatives of the FPÖ.]] The freedom to live an individually self-determined life is firmly linked to this privacy. The feeling of being observed leads to an adjustment of behavior. Mass surveillance leads to nothing but self-censorship. But here we are not talking about a restriction of illegal behaviour, but here we are talking about political correctness, politically adapted behavior. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] The new blockkeepers in social media, in the media and in society ensure by patrolling the behavior with their moral superiority and at the same time sanctioning it. No dictatorship would have been better able to think of this trickling educational programme for self-censorship. We must defend ourselves against that! [[It was in favour of the NEOS as well as of representatives of the FPÖ.]] We must protect freedom, we must not pass laws that further restrict this freedom, and we must ensure that adopted laws are better evaluated and sometimes abolished! I do not want to sound too negative, Mrs Minister, but I would like to see you on your way to mass surveillance. I have prepared a file about me in which you will find everything about me, about my entire private life, my religion, my bank accounts and so on. But please don't be angry, Mrs. Minister: I have allowed myself to also blacken this dossier a bit, just as you do with documents you provide to other investigation committees!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e6708	The next item is the speech by Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e6726	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and in front of the screens! This parliamentary debate certainly has a very serious background, not only at Austrian level, but also at European and international level. In some cases, I wonder if we are also focusing the necessary seriousness on the place I have actually assumed since the motion for a resolution was adopted. – I believe that if we do not want to do so together, and if that turns out to be reality and truth, then we have everything to do with protecting our citizens, on the other hand, but also the constitutional institutions with their institutions. I'm sorry, but the I believe that we should have an objective discussion, or rather a more flexible one, in this way, because this objective should be one of us. But I don't think I'm sending some messages here. We know that the intelligence services or, if you prefer, the secret services are equipped at the highest technical level. In every discussion here in the house, which is about training, equipping, equipping, and giving them the legal framework, we are discussing up to the police state. Then it says: For God's sake! Jessas! All this can't happen! – But we will not be able to use high-tech top-equipped organizations – forgive me the comparison! – fight with the stone slender. It won't work! I believe that it is therefore appropriate for us to conduct this discussion without emotions really very objectively and objectively here in the house, and we should save ourselves so many people. There are constitutional, democratic and also rule-of-law reasons why the services are not united, because then a discussion should first be held with those who really know each other. Therefore, such serious topics are really not suitable for such players here in the plenary. This is counterproductive. I believe that everyone has to comply with our law, and if all of this is true, then we must react with the possibilities we have. – I am already curious about the discussions regarding the upcoming new BAT law respecting state protection law. We will try to establish a reasonable, targeted law here until the end. But I hope we at least agree on the point that we reject these events, if they come true, that we fight them, that we turn them off, and that, above all, we give our organs the necessary armor so that they do not become so uneven against each other, because the intelligence services are top equipped. We've been discussing these issues for weeks, yes months, and I'm not interested in having more intelligence discussions now. However, it is always about Western intelligence services. Somehow, no man has been able to talk about the East Secret Services. But these aren't better for a deca, if I don't want to say that they're worse now either. In any case, however, it is all about questions that our society and our High House have to ask themselves. If we, ladies and gentlemen, give our administration a strong instrument, then I think there must logically also be a strong parliamentary control of this organization. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and representatives of ÖVP and Greens.]] I think that can be a way that we can go along all the party borders together: It is about combating all these measures, creating our legal status, giving the people security, giving our top bodies security and ensuring strong parliamentary control. I'm really inviting you to: Let us try to make this debate so serious and important together and to develop it in a positive direction.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e6787	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Nice to meet you. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e6806	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen in the gallery! Ladies and gentlemen, today this interesting debate is also taking place in front of the television screens. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ.]] Since the end of last week, what some people feared, but most dared not believe that Austria was also victims of large-scale cases – how to say? – Monitoring measures of intelligence services have been a major concern in the population. And I really mean the uncertainty in the population and not the political uncertainty that takes place here and there – I look at Peter Pilz by chance now – and also works staged. But I congratulate: This is the x-te, probably feels a hundredth political spring of Peter Pilz, this time even at European level! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express my express thanks – normally Otto Pendo, today I do – to the Minister for the Interior, who is present today. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nice.]] It has made clear to everyone who can listen meaningfully – he does not even have to read but can only listen – that she does everything to avoid hysteria in the population, and that she takes the accusations very, very seriously. The Minister for the Interior has spoken of serious accusations, and she takes those steps that are necessary to clarify, but which – I emphasize – are also possible by the Ministry of the Interior. Mrs Innenminister, I am convinced that you are taking the right steps to ensure that you are really clear about this in the future. But you have also said – and this is particularly important to me – that in this context all possible areas are required: Justice, politics and diplomacy must work together. They need to clarify quickly and objectively what is actually present, and it is a command of the hour that we do not insure the population populistly, but really work together on the education objectively and in terms of content. Speaking of information – this question may or may need to be allowed –: Has anyone seen the Minister of Defence? – I haven’t heard anything from him anymore about this question. But it's obvious: It is military intelligence, the military news agency, that there could be a very clear information. I really wish that the Minister of Defence would at least give us a clear explanation and inform us about what really exists in agreements and contracts in the area of the Army News Office. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Instead, one lets us die stupid!]] I think that can help us very well in this matter. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on Green MEPs.]] Apart from the current debate and taking it as an occasion, I am convinced that we have to deal urgently with the general issue of security in the cyber world, as has been said, objectively and professionally and without foam in front of the mouth. It's clear: Virtual space must not be understood as a right-free area. It's clear: It is possible to find a framework for the legal certainty of citizens as soon as possible, but also to strengthen Austria's economic location. In this respect, we are all required. In this area, we do not need populist debates and fear-making, but we should deal with them together as soon as possible. We should get to a national shoulder closure in the best sense, namely that all political forces agree on it: That's a serious issue, let's do it together! – This procedure would be urgently needed here. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, allow me a sentence on the course of the debate, especially to the green-blue crackers who were already on the table today. [[Interlocutory calls from Deimek and Pilz.]] [[Further lively calls at FPÖ and Greens.]] It is remarkable how close to each other the extreme rights and the extreme left are once again when it comes to practicing unwholesome criticism. The question whether the Minister of the Interior or the Austrian Ministry of the Interior cooperates with the German authorities is a logical question! Who else than the German federal authorities is supposed to clarify what actions are taking place in Germany?- Oh, my God! Or are you of the opinion that Austrian investigative officers should travel to Germany? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] Are you of the opinion that Austrian tanks should march into Germany so that we can find out what happened? – These are really absurd accusations! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Winter.]] Mrs Winter, I am not particularly surprised that a proposal like yours comes from the FPÖ! After all, the FPÖ is the party that suspects a military blow by the European Union against Austria, which is really incredible. Ladies and gentlemen, the issue is too serious to be discussed at this level! – We do not, and I invite you, together with us, to deal seriously and objectively with this very serious issue. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] In the direction of SPÖ: Any information that may be made available. She told the Minister of Defense that for days there has been a subject on the tapet, which also concerns him. In this sense: thanks many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e6895	Next word reported: Mr Mag. Darmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e6914	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Before: Ladies and gentlemen, my highest respect is for those Members who, in this debate and in addition, on the one hand, have found courage, on the other hand, but also the sense of responsibility, in clear words – and perhaps in future with actions – to condemn this illegal action by foreign intelligence services in and against Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But it is very difficult to filter out some of the Members who find such clear words, because the whole thing goes so far as to end up with representatives of the ÖVP who are still defending these practices in their statements. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an approach – in order to come to the main responsibility for Austrian internal security now – which is the Minister of the Interior, which cannot be blamed by the House or by our Members. It is our duty to control the Austrian Federal Government here, if there is a clear need for control, and you, Mrs Bundesminister, said earlier in your opinion: Of course, the accusations will be taken seriously, and it will be resolved quickly! Mrs Bundesminister, I have here a urgent request from the FPÖ Club, which Mr Strache and Mr Hübner brought in in July 2013. You will remember the Causa Snowden: The title of the urgent request was: ‘US total attack on the privacy of the ‘attack’ Europe.’ – That means: It's not that new! [[Abg. New builder: Three years!]] Mrs Bundesminister, you have announced that you will clarify quickly. Today, you have remained guilty of answers. How much time does the Minister of the Interior still need to work out this subject and make it understandable to the people, what is illegally opposed to our laws or, against the Republic of Austria? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I note one point, ladies and gentlemen: At that time, there were some very interesting quotations from the BAT, the Federal Office for Constitutional Protection and Anti-Terrorism, for example, the former but still active boss, who, in an ORF interview, found that there were repeated requests from U.S. intelligence agencies to cooperate in espionage activities. And he went one step further: In the ‘ZiB 2’ of 17. June 2013 – that is also some time ago – the former head of the German Federal Office Gert Polli has held in the O-Ton that “news services do not do anything, even one step that is not politically chordd, that applies to Austria, that applies to Russia, that applies to the USA and that applies to Germany”. - Quote. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Gert Polli, former head of the Federal Office for Constitutional Protection and Combating Terrorism in Austria, expresses this statement that you must be dedicated to all these activities. That's what he's been holding. And, of course, as a Member of Parliament, who has an obligation to control this federal government, we have to ask ourselves the question: Why is it walled, Mrs. Federal Minister? Why are we walled here? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It cannot be said that, due to the current legal situation in the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of State Defense, we in Austria have legal protection officers to control, detect, possibly even approve, such interferences in privacy, that foreign intelligence services here in Austria seem to be free to play and that the main political leaders do not seem to do anything about it. You, Mrs Bundesminister, have done nothing but once again to cover up and prevent information about the population, but above all about the House in your defence speech for the BND. That is why I also tell you that if it is the government's motivation to beautify the interception actions against individuals, against Austrian politics and international organisations in Austria and even to approve the US's industrial espionage via Germany in Austria, the National Council will have to use appropriate measures and instruments to actually advance the investigation. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs Bundesminister and honourable Members, you will already be able to appreciate that this issue is just too important for a committee of inquiry in the National Council! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It cannot be and does not assume that this government allows such acts of foreign intelligence in Austria! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e6979	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Musiol. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e6998	Ladies and gentlemen! Dear listeners! What have we been talking about for over an hour? – We are talking about an incident that became known over a week ago – or: more famous – about the use of data material, emails and personal telephones in a large style. This is what we have made of the Greens here today. My colleagues Pilz and Steinhauser, who spoke before me, expected answers from the Minister. However, we are not only talking about data but about democracy; it has been mentioned several times in advance. It is about privacy, the protection of privacy and data protection. It is therefore a question of fundamental rights, which are important elements of our democracy. If these are injured, democracy is at risk. What was the answer and response of Minister Mikl- Leitner with the help of the ÖVP? It has been quoted several times – unfortunately I have to do it too –: It can be a lot of hot, but it can't be. – A colleague in my bank series had the right association to do that, she said, it sounded like the Asterix comic. Mrs. Minister, we are not in any Asterix comic, you have not behaved here the way that would be according to an Asterix comic! After more than a week of getting to know such an incident, an interior minister has to give clear answers about what she has done and what she intends to do. That's what you owe us! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] On the contrary – and I would like to give you a picture: What you've done is make an elephant a mosquito. At least you tried. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] A small zoological note: mosquitoes and elephants need different treatment. You will not be able to treat a mosquito and an elephant the same way. They will not be able to get around – and this is also gratefully made clear by the SPÖ, your government partner – that it needs control and clear responses. [[Abg. Kogler: The black swamp is already going on!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Schönegger, are you really of the opinion that officials of the BND should consider what officials of the BND have done? [[Abg. Schönegger: What do you think they should do?]] Are you really of the opinion that the same authority should check whether or not errors have occurred? [[Abg. Strache: But this is the old ÖVP pattern! We already know that!]] That is far from any rule of law! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It must be said that even if you are in this House for a longer time, or if you have followed the discussion about privacy and data protection, this is no further wonder. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kogler.]] Then it is no surprise that a government would like to see an eye on a minister who had no problem with data storage, who had no sensitivity to fundamental and democratic issues, here, too; that is one and the same track. [[Abg. Wheeler: You got it!]] This is really problematic because the Constitutional Court clearly removed the storage of data a year ago. We have already said quite clearly where the problems lie. Initiatives and experts have clearly stated where the problems lie. They have nevertheless decided to store data, which has resulted in the Constitutional Court having given right to all these concerns, which have been expressed before, namely that persons are suspected of being put under general suspicion and are pretended to be all that is necessary in the context of security and as if privacy were automatically a good to be done. Against this background, Mrs Minister, it is already very questionable if you make yourself here today and say: “I am not in favour of making pre-conceptions.” – You did so with the data storage of stocks! You weren't in charge at the time. Although the Constitutional Court has expressed its concerns, you are now again saying that the storage of data is to come again and we need to discuss it. You did not have an answer to a question by my colleague Steinhauser at Question Time at the last National Council meeting on how you intend to solve these fundamental rights problems. I admit – everyone has to admit this – that it is a narrow hole to go between the surveillance of the population and the so-called search for the needle in the hay heap, which you always use as the term “safety”. But this narrow grat can't be done if one is democratically political and fundamentally insensitive. This narrow grat – which is now heading towards the Federal Chancellor – cannot be committed either by acting inconspicuously.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e7102	Next, Mrs Lintl will speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e7121	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! For a sovereign state, it is essential and essential to know what is taking place within its borders. The fact that Austria is a partner of the NSA is already evidenced by Edward Snowden's documents. The Army News Office has been scheduled to work with the NSA and the BND for decades. That democracy must be protected is undisputed, but I wonder why it has to do foreign services. European intelligence services are currently dependent on cooperation with US services in the fight against terrorist attacks and other security threats. This is particularly true for the small service in Austria. We Europeans seem to believe that we need intelligence information, but we do not want to provide the necessary resources for it. This can be done by the United States and supports it as unobtrusively as possible. If something like the BND scandal comes out, you're surprised. While Europe criticises the US course, it is not yet ready to act independently. There is therefore great dishonesty in the field of intelligence activities. We need information to protect ourselves from criminal organizations and terrorism. Europe, however, obviously does not want to organise this itself and, above all, does not pay for it itself, which is why it is delivered to the USA on this point. Cooperation and partnership, however, mean mutual respect and trust – and trust was clearly broken. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] A committee of inquiry is intended to identify the damage caused and claim damages. A diplomatic act of apologies would also be appropriate. Ladies and gentlemen, we want more security! This requires a clear and honest commitment to data monitoring – and not a ashamed, dishonest excuse regarding the protection of personal data. We're under threat. Cyberwar's started a long time ago. We need more funds for national defence and intelligence, as well as clear support and recognition of these services. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] But it must also be ensured that the intelligence services do not become self-employed and pursue their own goals. Control must be. We need to know what they are doing here, and be careful that they do not represent national interests. It is already clear and lies in the nature of the matter, that on such a topic the government cannot say everything. But you don't feel as if the responsible politicians knew. In doing so, it is a political need for the political level to be informed. Finally, I quote the President of the Constitutional Court of Gerhart Holzinger, who said the following at the International Parliamentary Meeting on Global Security, which took place two weeks ago in the Vienna Court of Justice: ‘In the case of all legislative measures relating to police and intelligence powers, the rule of law and the balance between freedom and security must be maintained.’ I think we can all agree. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e7194	The next item is the speech by Mr Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e7212	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! We all agree, I believe, that we need clarification, that we finally want clarity about what happened, and that we finally have to talk clearly about how we can handle these things in the future, so that it is not. It is clear that there is a need for action – we have already heard this – so that the population can regain confidence in the Federal Government, which is already out of place in many areas. The confidence that the government is capable of protecting the fundamental freedoms and fundamental rights of citizens must not be lost. We all agree on this, because this is what all of us have said today: We need some information! What irritates me so massively is how you were left today. What irritated me even more was Mr Amon's statement. You said you didn't understand the excitement. - That's the problem. You have said that you do not understand the excitement, you do not understand the excitement of Mr Pilz, the colleague Belakovich-Jenewein or the excitement of all others. That is the problem, because we must be excited when fundamental rights and fundamental freedoms are trampled on when the Austrians are monitored. If we don't get upset, we really have a very massive problem. [[We welcome the NEOS, as well as the representatives of FPÖ and Greens.]] We have to consider what were the basic common European values that we agreed on once and which you quote from the EIA very often. These are the values in the European Convention on Human Rights. This is precisely what you are in the Council of Europe, Mr Amon, about fundamental rights and fundamental freedoms. If this year, through various legislative initiatives that come from the Federal Government, but also through spying activities of foreign intelligence services, we have to get excited. One of the main criticisms is how these things are clarified, as well as this inactivity that comes from the Federal Government in this context. Yes, there was an ad against unknown, but the essential point is this excitement which we also demand. Mrs. Federal Minister, this has not come from your side! You've taken this very much – whether it was right or wrong. I do not want to judge exactly what the things that Mr Pilz has quoted from the e-mail mean. The basic principle and the basic question is this: Whether we are excited about it when foreign intelligence services are spying in Austria and watching people in a mass way? I am deeply convinced that we must be upset because the pillars of our democracy are simply sacrificed on an altar. If we don't worry about it, we have a very massive problem, as I said earlier. [[Congratulation with NEOS and Greens.]] I recall this all-party proposal, which clearly states that we will oppose illegal surveillance by foreign intelligence services. One essential point is that we are opposed to the fact that we are also comprehensively clarifying. This must finally be done so that the citizens of this country can be assured again that their freedom will not be trampled on, but that they will receive the protection they deserve; so that, as an Austrian state, we can show this attitude again – this famous issue of attitude – that for us the freedom of individuals is at the centre of our attention and not the supervision by foreign intelligence services.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e7289	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I welcome Mr. Federal Minister Dr. Schelling. [[10:34:47]] Current European hour
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e7313	We're coming up to date now. European hours on the subject: "European solidarity needs clear rules. Counterfeiting law for EU Member States First of all, Mr. Klubobmann has spoken to Dr. Strolz. I give it to you and draw attention to the fact that the speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e7337	Madam President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Citizens' values! There are many young people in the gallery today, which I am very pleased with. We have praised the issue of European solidarity. It is Europe where we are at home. It is Europe – we are deeply convinced – that will ensure the future for young people, especially in this country or not. Our vision is a strong Europe. Our vision is a united Europe. It's a little drop of time. When I show my children Europe on the globe, they come back after three minutes and say: Dad, where was that again? – This is a little flicker on this blue ‘ball’. But there are 500 million and more people living there. We are a community of fate; it is historically proven. If on this continent Europe burned a hut, then the next day the other hut burned reliably, because we are just so close to each other. If we are a community of fate, it is obvious that we should understand ourselves as a community of opportunities, because we cannot choose the community of fate, it has been geographically encroached on us. We must decide politically for a community of opportunities. Politics is the place where we make up how we live together. In this place, I would like to have the confession that we are building together on this united Europe, that we are saying: Yes, this European model of life is the best this planet has ever seen for the species of man. Prosperity for large masses – where did it exist? Others have promised it from Stalin to Mao Tsêtung and Fidel Castro. What has become of it? – No prosperity for broad masses! Wealth has only achieved Europe with a European prosperity model and social peace for decades. [[Call the FPÖ:Right!]] All these things are now, of course, on top of what you have to say. For the first time, we have another war at the border of the European Union: whether that is in Ukraine or whether that is civil war-like conditions in Macedonia. Peace and prosperity are not a matter of course, but we must fight for them. European solidarity, of course, needs clear rules that we are building on. The first point is the economy, which is very central. That's why, Minister of Finance, we invited you here today. In recent months we have built on a coordinated economic and financial policy. Some things have gone on, which is why I would also like to find praise for the European Union. We have introduced a banking union – too late and too hesitant, but nevertheless – with a common regulatory system, with a common supervision and with a common crisis mechanism. That's good. We have adopted a Stability Pact, a Fiscal Treaty. That's good too. We have designed a stability mechanism. We must constantly deepen and refine these things. My colleague Rainer Hable will comment in detail on this as our financial and budget speaker. But there is a lack of such efforts – this is your task on our part, Minister of Finance – to create a solid economic basis for this Union: the insolvency law for the Member States. As long as we do not have this insolvency right for Member States, we de facto have a call to the States to go into responsibilities and to play the drivers, because today this European Union is de facto a Bail-out community, which we have never made up and which means: If a big-scale man builds a responsible mess, then all European Union citizens must pay it. – We are not willing to do this because a community does not work that way. Strict account, good friends, but if one commits to responsibility at the expense of the other, then that will not go well! That is why we must, of course, prevent state pleas, because we do not have an orderly procedure, as state pleas might look. And, Minister, we have learned from Hypo Alpe-Adria that we pay a high price if we do not have an insolvency right, if we do not trust in bank insolvency, even over federal insolvency. I would like to remind you once again: When we – the state – took over the Hypo Alpe-Adria, it was estimated that it costs citizens between €2 billion and €4 billion. Now it would cost between €10 billion and €20 billion – we don't know – because we had no rules in this area because we were somehow forced to take over the thing. And that's how it looks with Greece. We are, of course, lying in our own pocket when we are now negotiating a third aid package for Greece. Christoph Vavrik will report on this as a Greek scholar. He has lived in Greece for several years, worked, is married to a Greek woman, knows this country and will report what that has done to the country in recent years, that there are no winners: neither in Greece nor in the European Union. But we lie in our own bag when we say that now there is a third aid package. Greece has no liquidity problem, Greece is pleading, quite simply. Greece is insolvent and we cannot allow it because we do not have a procedure for it. [[Abg. Kogler: For six years now!]] [[Call the FPÖ:For years!]] This is, of course, disturbing, and that is why we urgently need to have an insolvency right for Member States. Insolvency does not necessarily mean leaving the European Union, but of course we also need a rule that states can leave the monetary union. I think that is urgently necessary; these are not easy decisions, not with God, but once in a generation, the decision for a people must be possible, whether it is there or not. For this we must provide for a regulation, we do not have it, and this is lacking in European architecture. As long as such cornerstones are missing, this house will not be on a solid basis, so it would not be good for the young people who will naturally strive for prosperity and peace in their lives. And there we are in duty. Overall, Mr Minister – and this is my second concern in addition to insolvency law for Member States of the EU – we need a break in our resolve in Europe. This continent with its 28 governments is somehow half unconscious. We come too late in any crisis, we are not even capable of agreeing together a key to asylum policy. In small and large questions we do not create a unified procedure – because we also have unsafe cantonists. The message to the British is quite clear: I would like to see Britain in the European Union, but I do not need any kneeling British people in the European Union. If that's just what you want, then it's just a little bit like that from the common union! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nice.]] That's so simple. We need a Constitutional Convention, in which we – this European Union – are giving ourselves a common constitution in which we are inculcating the institutions in which we say, with the broad participation of citizens, what is important to us, what we stand for, what we are doing together, what the national states and Member States are doing, and then we should vote in each Member State. I prefer to march with 25 determined Member States, than with 28 knee-drenched cantonists, because that will not be a viable future, and therefore the call for action is to postpone the important cornerstones of solid architecture – insolvency law for Member States. Overall, Mr Minister – and this, of course, is an appeal to the entire Federal Government, because the brakers are all too often the national governments; it is not the European Union, which is per se a braker, it is the 28 Heads of Government, Finance Ministers, et cetera, who too often drive hand-held and not even half-gas, and that will not be enough in the coming years and decades: A break-up in resolve with very concrete measures; that is our vision and our concern. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e7410	Mr Schelling spoke on a preliminary opinion. Your speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e7429	Madam President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, Mr Klubobmann Strolz is right that in recent years, at the level of the European Union, many measures have been taken in the direction of a regulation in order to be able to act better. They mentioned it: the Banking Union. We are currently discussing a capital market union with surprisingly good progress, we have created the Sixpack, we have created funds for solidarity so as not to resort to individual. Now, of course, we need to distinguish what we should do at European level and what can happen nationally. Every country can go into bankruptcy, including Greece, for this we do not need a European regulation. It makes sense, however, that it will refer back to the European Union when that happens. Because, in connection with Greece, a possible exit from the euro is discussed over and over again: There is no rule to get out of the euro. [[Abg. Podgorschek: You can do that!]] According to § 50 of the Treaties, states can leave the EU, and this would probably also involve the exit from monetary union. This path was also discussed a lot. What you are talking about here is current, that is not a question at all, but I would like to point out briefly how long this has been up-to-date. In December 2002, the then First Deputy Executive Director of the Monetary Fund Anne Krueger gave a speech before representatives of the European Commission in Brussels, quoting it from an annual report of an association of private bond holders, which reads as follows: In the autumn of last year, a conference of lawyers and prominent individuals from a number of countries discussed the possibility of international agreements on those legal principles that should apply to sovereign states' debts in relation to foreign creditors. There can be no doubt that such an international agreement would be beneficial. - Quote. The problem associated with this – and therefore the indication that what you are presenting is up-to-date – is that this issue of state insolvency has been on the agenda for a very long time. The quote I have just presented is from the annual report of the year 1874. So you see, one has been dealing with the subject for a very long time; there is progress in this direction, but what you want is certainly not yet feasible. What's been done? – On the one hand, the complexity of networking on the international financial market is much higher today than 1874; that is, I think, well-known. Negotiations between states and representatives of creditors – we are experiencing this ourselves – are much more difficult than before, and to a large extent it is slowing down. When considering when we have been discussing Greece, Mr Kogler is absolutely right: This is not a debate over the last few months, this is a discussion that we have been having for many years, and this is a discussion that can be seen historically, because it is not the first case that Greece is unable to pay. There have been several such cases over the past hundred years. What is the current state, and where does the whole thing move? – On the one hand, I believe that clear rules and orderly procedures are desirable. This is true everywhere, as is the case with the Banking Union and with all other procedures. The IMF, whose representatives I have recently discussed in Washington, is also trying to do so at the international level. I think the European level is too short. One cannot make a European insolvency right and then say that the Europeans are disadvantaged to the rest of the world. That's a point you just have to look at. Progress has also been made in some areas, including beyond the European Union. I am thinking of the automatic exchange of data, which is organized worldwide, and it would be desirable for us to be a global process in the field of orderly procedures. Of course you are right, the question is who sets the impulse, and I will be happy to do so. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stroll.]] Interestingly, Austria has always been committed to developing such an orderly procedure even in the course of the negotiations in 2000, when the Monetary Fund had the objective of developing it. There has been a failure in the Monetary Fund – as you quote it in the European Union – by unanimity, and there have been some Member States in the Monetary Fund that have not voted in favour. The attitude of the EU countries and Austria was quite closed, but it was not enforceable internationally. Therefore, instead of developing a binding mechanism, some of which have already been quoted, I do not want to repeat that, but one point that is quite crucial is this alternative approach to the debt clauses, which in the meantime are general standard. That is to say, one can pursue a similar goal with these re-indebted clauses. It is not binding rules, but if a majority of creditors decide to agree to a repayment profile, it is binding on all. ==References====External links== In January 2013, in all the new debt instruments of the European Monetary Area, these re-debt clauses are mandatory inside. This is a clear sign and a signal: There must be rules. If you don't do this on the classic right level, you go this way, you use such vehicles. In the EU itself, of course, there has been this discussion for a long time and not only since the debate on Greece. I remember that there were also other member countries that had just faced the issue of liquidity problems that are now on track, but still without the help of the European Union, they probably had no chance of restoring liquidity. They mentioned the European Banking Union. This is an important building block in the whole thing. We also pointed out at the last meeting that not only the Euro countries should participate in it, but all. Finally, the Banking Union should clearly apply to all countries. There is still much to be done to achieve this, because it makes no sense to create disadvantages in individual blocks through the regulations of a banking union and to take advantage of the others for their benefit – and finally, those who have the disadvantages, nor those who have the advantage, have to pay. It won't be like that. The European financial world is certainly in a situation – if you look at the latest results of ratings – that we are decoupling between the state and the financial market. That's right, that's what you want. All the new aid rules are also going in this direction to make this decoupling so as not to get back to the situation that at the end of the taxpayers and only the states are liable for it when something happens. What we need – and we have started these talks in Washington and will continue at European level – is such a level playing field. That is simply to say, it must not be possible for investors to re-indebted in the EU, but not in the other areas, because this would, of course, be a fatal situation for the market – you have addressed the economy. Therefore, it is important to extend the rules of the game, also improve the rules of the game, and not to let the risk of state insolvency – and that is my key concern in this matter – arise in the eurozone at all. This is actually the point on which we need to work, and the Union has also made many arrangements with the Stability and Growth Pact, with the Sixpack and with other things. If the individual countries have to respond to the Commission’s country-specific recommendations over and over again, this is always about stability. It is always about how stable the finances are in the country. I therefore believe that the most important approach is how we can prevent a country from becoming insolvent at all. Now, of course, the point you have raised is: On the occasion of Greece, it is very clear that the problem has already existed at the beginning, since it has already been opted out with wrong numbers. Unfortunately, it has not been found. Now it looks like you have enormous difficulties finding a solution. We have played through all the solutions – the insolvency scenario is already being played through by Greece – but it is right that we should continue to work here. I would therefore like to take the invitation to say: Let us work together to create a rule work! This doesn't have to be a classic insolvency law, but a rule that allows orderly settlement. That is, I think, the challenge we have, and I like to take the suggestion with me. I would like the following speakers to say that these statements lead to an incisive discussion.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e7488	Before giving the next speaker the floor, I would point out that the speaking time of all other participants in the current European hour according to § 74b Abs. 2 in conjunction with § 97a para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 5 minutes. Next speaker: Mr Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e7510	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr Strolz, the Minister for Finance has already clarified several things in a very factual form. In 1874, I do not want to go back to that far; we have been dealing with a process without a contract of international law by the so-called Paris Club – next year we are celebrating 60 years – as a sovereign subject with states that can no longer settle their debts. We have the so-called London Club, where private creditors of such states can agree to a regulatory procedure. However, all these procedures will only work if the International Monetary Fund first determines in a programme how high the country's debt capacity is and how this can be handled reasonably over the years with a bail-in of creditors. We actually have that, but the problem is another: States are not vulnerable as societies like subjects in economic life. If you write that you want to have a bankruptcy right, that would actually be the sharpest form, namely the final exploitation of all assets, and as a result the creditors are cut and that disappears from the map. Unfortunately, this happens too often in company insolvency law, and this House has, in recent years, tried to ensure the preservation of living economic bodies despite insolvency by improving the procedure. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stroll]] But the essence of the bankruptcy is to use the assets, to distribute the remaining proceeds to the creditors after the quota – and then the subject disappears. How is this supposed to work in Greece, Mr Strolz? States are companies whose largest asset is the possible tax revenue. [[Abg. Stroll: Yes!]] The truth is, the assets you can't really use – perhaps even the port in Piraeus or something else – but the streets, the schools, even the public parks are like the private man of the TV or the bathtub you can't execute, something you need to live. [[Abg. Stroll: That's right!]] Therefore, you can make the debt capacity only after the future revenues – and that is exactly what happens in this procedure. Greece is almost an example of why it is not good to go your way, because in reality, a sort of insolvency procedure has already been carried out in Europe with Greece's package 1 and 2 – before ESM. There is the mass administrator, the so-called Troika – today it is said: the institutions – there has been a kind of rehabilitation administrator there for five years, the problem is only: This performance does not even make our worst bankruptcy administrator today according to the Austrian insolvency order, because he would get a pretty good turn with the judge if he showed such a performance. That's exactly what failed. Why? – Because one has tried to approach it microeconomically, because one has not tried to bring a state to more yield opportunities, but rather to strangle it! [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Strolz and Mr Stefan.]] That's the core problem. That is to say, we have taken all our debts into account in European solidarity, Mr Strolz, but if today there is a “Grexit” – perhaps not even an exit – then those who sit in the Paris Club are the creditors. Do you know who that is? – Our European taxpayers and taxpayers. Therefore: Whoever yells at Greece today for Bail-in yells at the pocket of our taxpayers! [[Abg. Kogler: Six years...!]] Therefore, a solution must be found with the Greek government to increase growth in order to get a better chance for Greece to have so much growth that debt is given. Therefore: Do not make comparisons with insolvency law, Mr Strolz, but try to proceed with it. I believe that there are very reasonable positions to be taken that the Ecofin finance ministers are trying to find a solution – that is not easy with the Greek government. In turn, the Greek government has, of course, also a mandate of a people, which says: The funds you gave us were for German and French banks, we can't continue this way! [[Abg. Kogler: Yes eh!]] And this signal was the result of the elections to the Greek Parliament. We have to respect this as well as others have to accept the composition of this Parliament and this government, and so much respect for democracy will have to be shown to all of us, even if we are creditors. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] People are allowed to live there. This principle will determine how it is designed. I hope it's successful. I wish the Greeks that we should get away from the debate on cuts in pension and social benefits, towards more growth and more opportunities for life. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Kogler and Mr Strolz.]] That's what I'm hoping for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e7608	The next speaker was Mrs Dr Karl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e7627	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Strolz said that Europe was a community of fate and a community of opportunities. . That is true, but the European Union is also a community of values, and one of our common values is, of course, the solidarity that is contrary to today's European hours. The Preamble to the EU Treaty speaks of the desire of the Member States to strengthen solidarity between their peoples in respect of their history, culture and tradition. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] Solidarity is also highlighted in numerous provisions of the EU Treaties. For example, Article 222(2) contains: 1 of the TFEU is the so-called solidarity clause, according to which the Union and its Member States act jointly in the spirit of solidarity when a Member State is affected by a terrorist attack, a natural disaster or a man-made disaster. It states that if one of them gets into an emergency situation, Member States will stand up for each other. But what about this solidarity when it comes to a Member State's financial emergency? Then apply the old proverb: With money, the friendship ceases! We from the EIA consider solidarity at national level to be a balance between self-sufficiency and state-guaranteed solidarity. Solidarity is simply not a one-way street. We need not only solidarity with those who have to take advantage of social benefits, but also with those who finance and provide social benefits. The individual must always demand from the Community only what he cannot afford by his own means. By the way, you can read all of this in the current ÖVP party program – a reading I can only recommend to you, my dear Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, this understanding of solidarity must not be limited only to the national level. At European level too, there is no limitless solidarity, and of course these limits are not always easy to draw. It is clear, however, that European solidarity must not be a one-way road either. If a Member State is in a financial emergency, it is not only about solidarity with that State, but also about solidarity with the paying Member States. This means that I mean a solidarity of the needy state by not only waiting for financial support, but also implementing the necessary national reforms and pursuing a rigorous sustainable saving course. It is clear that solidarity between Member States cannot function without appropriate rules, for example, needed to set its limits. As a lawyer, I say: Trust is good, but clear rules are of course even better. And they're just calming down. Clear rules are therefore also essential, because ambiguities always generate distrust. However, the European Union can only work if there is no distrust between Member States but trust. Clear boundaries of solidarity, for example, have been set in the social field. While there is a right to free movement, there is no right to immigration into national social systems. Solidarity does not go that far. This has also been clarified by the European Court of Justice in the "Dano" case, thus removing a lot of distrust. Nor does it contradict thinking about rules on European insolvency law for Member States, even though this will undoubtedly be a very difficult and lengthy undertaking. But that is really nothing new for the European Union. Such challenges she often has to master and master with success. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e7694	Mr Hübner came next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e7712	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Karl, you referred to the European Union and Europe as a community of fate and values. – This is at least a quarter of the truth. In essence, the European Union is not either but a community of will. It exists by the fact that various states have united themselves on their own initiative and have given up parts of their sovereignty. So it is not to ask what fate is imposing on us, but it is to ask what we want. And the question of what we want should be answered according to the principles, which are meaningful and appropriate for us. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Let us go back to Mr Strolz's statement of introduction, which was very significant for this. Mr Strolz meant – I wrote down how he formulated it exactly – that we need the start of resolve, yes, the start to resolve! [[Abg. Stroll: Breaking up in determination!]] But at the same time he told us that we landed in a non-agreed transfer union. Now, at the start, it would be a matter of resolve to ask: How do we get out of the non-agreed transfer union? What we have not agreed and imposed on ourselves, we must get out of it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The conclusion can never be as it has formulated Mr Strolz – and thus he is not alone, all the “karase” of this world and many members of her club will agree to him –: Let's go back to the agreement!, but, well, you can't do anything. [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] Fast O-Ton Strolz. In the course of the break-up to determination one has to stop with the situation, we do the best out of it. If we are already unwilling, forced into this transfer, solidarity, bail-out union, then we are making a bankruptcy order for states. Mr Strolz, there are good reasons why there is no such bankruptcy. The Minister and also Mr Matznetter have already explained why this is simply not possible. [[Abg. Stroll: Because it was always like that!]] And these bankruptcys happen continuously, that's not the problem. To the Paris Club, which Mr Matznetter mentioned. Consider how much – under quotations – this “state bankruptcy” has been done since 1956, since it existed. - Eight, ten, twenty, forty? – It was 88! 88, including those in Europe. 88! That's all there is. [[Abg. Stroll: There's nothing against it!]] A state bankruptcy is nothing other than re-indebtedness, debt loss, low interest rates, reduced interest rates, and payment deadlines. That's all you can do in a state. This has already been done with Greece. In 2013, it has already changed 250 billion bonds and reduced the nominal by 50 percent. There you have already granted €125 billion in debt reduction and the deadlines are extended, interest rates changed and so on. All of this is already happening. So what is now being spoken here under the title of the ‘concurrency system of European States’ is only a tactic of fogging that one does not want to say things that one does not at last want to admit that, as Mr Strolz rightly says, we have come into a bond of liability through this community of solidarity, which, for us and our descendants, contains inseparable risks and which has brought nothing for the recipients and has led Europe since 2008 – since the outbreak of the crisis – into the greatest permanent crisis since the Second World War. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the Stronach team]] The only countries that have not coped with the 2008 crisis, the first major crisis since the European Union's existence, were the members of the European Union. And among them were the members of the eurozone who managed them the worst. If I do not assume that the European Union and the European idea are a religion, and that I have to proceed here in accordance with the rules of a catechism which sees the existence and growth of the European Union as the highest creed – as Othmar Karas might do if I read his interviews and in his blog – but with the ratio of an enlightened Central European Parliament – as such I see ours – to the matter, then the question must be: Let's turn back what went wrong? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Let us see what makes sense in the European Union, what has caused us enormous damage, which has led to the fact that in four countries of the European Union, youth unemployment is constantly at 30 percent and total unemployment in the area of 20 percent and more is that hundreds of thousands are leaving their countries. Portugal alone currently has an emigration of around 115 000 citizens per year, but unemployment is still 20 percent plus. In Greece, the situation is quite similar. [[Abg. Stroll: Yes!]] There I must be so honest and so courageous – to use the beautiful Stroll’s word – to say: We are in the wrong direction and we need to take part in the European Union. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There are sensible things like a customs union, which makes sense at European level. The Customs Union makes sense, except for agriculture, I'm not quite sure if that makes sense. There are sensible things like a part-schengen, for nuclear European states, which are essentially convergenceal to use the beautiful word. These could make sense of a Schengen Union that they could also achieve a social union. But the European Union in today's size, especially with the members we have received from 2004 onwards, cannot do so. Therefore, the demand in the Strolz sense, which gratefully initiated and made this debate possible: Let's be brave! Let's look at the facts! Let us depart from religious or pseudoreligious arguments! We recognize that we are not in a catechism, but in a reasonable debate, and we end the transfer and bail-out union! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e7842	Next, Mr Magistrate. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e7860	Mr President. Federal Minister! I would like to start with the alleged tradition of the importer of this present hour and expressly commend you, not only to Mr Klubobmann Strolz, but above all to Mr Federal Minister for Finance for his opinion on this subject, which is equally well-founded and differentiated, even though we are now de facto organising a very scientific and contentious show here, because everyone knows that we will not have this tomorrow, whatever the proposal will be. It is therefore interesting to see what was thought in the case 140 years ago, perhaps the last ten years. We would also like to make a contribution to this. I am not in a position to speak in Greece in the context of this historical development, so as to address further the issue of insolvency law, but not from a legal point of view, but from a larger economic, social and, above all, European perspective, to see what the contribution can be. I think this is already very superior and thoughtful. But back to Greece. Of course, this has dizzy. It's a story. But even without dizziness, there has been a debate for the 1990s. I can remember, among all the economics of Europe, but also especially in Austria, from the Austro-keynesian tradition, the question of who should ever enter such a monetary union. The studies – as I did now in the TTIP debate – which were published in the early 1990s, “One market, one money”, were loud PR-plunders commissioned by the European Commission. Not that I now want to become anti-European, quite the contrary, but at the time one should have asked the question very well: What is actually a great currency area? I don't want to talk about an optimal textbook or something. But at that time it was quite clear that the so-called East States could have difficulties – at that time called them – but only the so-called South States were quite right. That was always the position of the Greens for this reason already in the nineties, because at that time de facto the decision was taken – in the mid/end of the nineties – that these countries should not yet or, if at all, come into this monetary union. - So much for it. Then it went on with Greece somehow, numbers were beautiful. But we have similar cases. I remember how long the Hypo Alpe-Adria has cost our budget only a few million, over many years. This can be better than Greece, because we are not worried. You just pushed Carinthia a little in this direction – right or wrong, I don't know that, I don't have the insights – but we don't have to point out that for long, I think. But more exciting is the question of how things went on then than they once were in the monetary union. Now I come to an old wisdom – I've said it twice here, then it's a third time in the stenographic protocol, I don't enjoy it –: It is much easier to make a fish soup out of a aquarium than a fish soup from a fish soup. That is why this is not so easily reversible. That's what cost is. You have to see that. You could understand a lot, and that would not be an anti-European for a long time. But now the story has just come this way. I only remember a tradition of conservative politicians in Europe. At the time, German Chancellor Schüssel also made his appearance and celebrated. The Prime Minister of Greece, Mr Karamanlis, one of the worst fingers in this context, was courted in Vienna in 2005, as well as in 2006. The future of Europe has called out bowls with such figures, you almost have to say. That's it! As a result, 2010/2011 has broken up what was inevitable – Greece now. At that time it was economically quite clear – Van der Bellen said it here on this pult as the first one and we, Mr Rossmann and I, have always economically represented it: Greece was already insolvent at the time, not illiquid, but insolvent! Now would actually be the question – and this is the topic of this current hour: What could have happened? And if we had such a thing as a reasonable insolvency law, according to the indicators of Mr Matznetter, it would have been good if states could restart, if social cohesion were not threatened. Because that's exactly what happened. At the time, many private creditors were inside: German banks, French banks, which we European taxpayers have now replaced. They've been bought out by us. That is why it is now easy to say that the Bail-in would be to the detriment of the European taxpayer. That's right! But not at that time. And why has that been so? – By the way, the German and French arms industry is still financed by German bank loans, which we are now supposed to secure, because this was missing at the time, namely a reasonable settlement and private creditor participation.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e7925	The final sentence, please, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e7940	The only thing that has succeeded, but unfortunately only found in the Preamble entrance, a small success of the Greens, is that for the new ESM regime private creditor participation is required before money flows. If there is no debt, there must be no money anyway. But always private creditors, otherwise in Europe, the squeaks fly around our ears whenever the citizens pay for what large corporations and banks organize.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e7967	The next item is the speech by Mrs Dr. Nachbaur. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e7986	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! Dear taxpayers! In fact, the Euro Finance Ministers need not be surprised that they cannot solve the euro problem in general nor the Greek problem in particular. They simply lack competence, since most are just politicians and unfortunately no economic or financial experts. However, from the very beginning, the euro was rather a huge credit programme and less a political project and no economic project at all. The big banks have been soreing off for a long time. The credit risk remains the same among taxpayers, and the bad consequences of this re-octroyed rescue policy are borne by the poor Greeks. So-called rescue policy has pushed the population into poverty, disease and dependence. Thus, it is no wonder that they choose Neomarxists and Socialists. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Politicians make great promises and are, unfortunately, too often elected to do so. This applies, of course, to the south of Europe as well as to the north, as well as to Austria. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). They tend to get into foreign pockets, whether they are the citizens of their own country or whether in Europe it is often the hands of the southern countries in the pockets of the northern countries. The policy of the Eurozone actually acts like a huge bank that redistributes money. The ECB has become a true player in the European Union. Unfortunately, this also means that it is not far from with democracy in the EU. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The head of the ECB is not democratically legitimate to lead the EU, and the fact that the debtor countries in the ECB have the majority does not specifically indicate a forward-looking policy. The ECB is actually pursuing economic policy in the European Union because the individual Member States are not acting accordingly. They often cannot even place themselves on the market again. That is why the ECB buys government bonds. And that, in turn, stimulates speculation. So the biggest sponsors of the speculators are, in fact, European chancellors and prime minister, as well as our Federal Chancellor Werner Faymann, who is not in a position to pursue a successful economic policy. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] We have already experienced some de facto pleas, but de jure is simply not allowed because this is not desired politically. That is why there is no state insolvency right to this day – and I fear that it will remain the same. Some time ago, it was heard from the Austrian Finance Minister at the time that Greece had the potential to become a good business for Austria; probably the same as the Hypo Alpe-Adria bank. Scäuble and Merkel also talked about Germany getting everything back on Heller and Pfennig. – Today we know how far away these politicians live from reality. Greece has 320 billion € in debt, of which 240 billion is from public funds. That is, in the event of default, the taxpayers of the other countries are of course paying. Greece, however, is not the only country. You think of Italy, where the ECB has bought around €100 billion of government bonds. In reality, there is only one solution for Greece: The country separates from the eurozone, greatly devalues and recovers its competitiveness after a healthy hard time. – But you don't want to allow that politically. There is not even a way out, and that is, of course, completely wrong. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Hamburg People's Wirtness Reinhard Crusius writes: “The ‘ irrevocability’ of the Euro Treaty is the product of a bad conscience.” – Bad conscience because from the beginning one has created a “construction” that simply cannot work. In reality, the euro should have been introduced only if there were “jurist, economic and organisational” rules for state pleas and contract announcements. But there's no such thing as that to this day. It is also a fatal illusion to believe that billions of loans create security and that states cannot argue. The same applies also at national level. Therefore, our appeal: We urgently need rules for state advocates and also for federal advocates. Insolvency is needed for local authorities to be able to argue for what needs to be argued. Only in this way can the country recover. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] The market – I am already at the conclusion – is often more just and human than this misconceptional solidarity, the forced solidarity that has actually led to a new hatred among the peoples of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e8096	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Vavrik. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e8114	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Dear fellow citizens and fellow citizens! In German: I'm a philosopher! It connects me with Greece and the Greeks a very deep friendship. I married a Greek – I am still married to her – and my children have come to the world in Greece, and Greek is spoken at home. I love this country and have spent many years there, most recently as the managing director of an international company. I therefore believe I can claim that I not only love this country but also understand it. And both from this love and from this understanding, I appeal to you, Minister of State: Let us stop pretending that Greece will ever settle its debts! Let's stop the illusion of repayment! Let's look at reality in the face: Greece is – unfortunately! – we plead, and we draw from it the consequences, even if, of course, they will be painful for Austrian taxpayers and the Greeks! Better an end with horror than a terror without end. The fact is that Greece's gross debt is 180 percent of GDP. That's €313 billion! And yet the repayment until 2057 – unfortunately, many of us will not be alive anymore – has been extended, Greece still has to repay €15 billion in repayment and interest until the end of this year. It's not going to work! Again: Greece is insolvent. A political agreement in Riga at the last minute – which I fear – about a new reform programme would only serve to protect the face to justify the disbursement of € 7.2 billion of the last tranche of the second aid programme. The Tsipras Government does not intend – truly zero intention, Minister of Finance – to carry out the type of reform programmes that you and your colleagues from the Eurozone imagine. Averting the bankruptcy five years ago was the right decision because a bankruptcy of Greece at the time would have threatened the stability of the euro and perhaps the integrity of Europe. But today, under this government, an agreement to resume the second aid program or – guard God! – even a third aid package only means large-scale bankruptcy. [[Abg. That's right!]] This would mean that the path of suffering of the Greeks would only be extended and the final bill for the Austrian taxpayer would be even more juicy. – The case of Hypo Alpe-Adria, for example, should be a warning to us. One thing, Mr Federal Minister, I would like to say: I think that a bankruptcy of Greece does not also result in a euro exit. I believe that Greece's withdrawal from the euro zone is neither necessary nor desirable. In particular, the impulse effect in terms of depreciation, mentioned by Mr Rebaur, would not occur due to the very underdeveloped export sector of Greece and the high dependence on imports, in particular on energy. But the further circular refinancing of Greek debt is not only ineffective, but also politically counterproductive, as such more dangerous than a declared state bankruptcy. Negotiations on reforms have already come to a kind of poker game, characterized by threats, blackmails, and Ultimates. They lead to an ever-increasing confrontation between Greece and its supposed helpers, not only at government level, but also among the peoples – with the result that in the end a government emerges, a whole people is humiliated, with the danger that the country will be politically radicalised and adopted by the Europe project. The shell for the solution of the Greek crisis is no longer in Brussels, the key is Athens. ==References====External links== In January 2015, it was clearly stated that they want to go a new way, and – I am almost done – the democratically legitimate government of Tsipras has also made it clear after four months that it will not change its intention. [[President Head gives the bell sign]] Let us give the Greeks an opportunity to decide for themselves the modernisation of their country. Let us allow them to go this way, and help them to be solid, generous and without forceful exercise – if not for love of Greece, then for responsibility to the Austrian taxpayer and for responsibility for the future of Europe! - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e8161	Next, Mr. Dr. Cap will speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e8179	I like these academic debates, but they do not really bring us forward. We all know that Greece's inclusion in the euro area was done for political reasons and less for economic considerations, less because it has such great solid state finances. We know that at the time, for political reasons, there was an expansion of the European Union by ten new member countries of different economic strength and structure according to different admission criteria. That is something we must also see, so we can not only hold an academic-economic debate, but also take this into account. ==References====External links== May 2015 speaks of the rescue after the pleite. ‘ECB and euro rescue funds do not intend to drop Greece immediately in the event of a default of payments.’ This is an academic discussion about any insolvency models – that is not political at all. After the pleite, we will continue to want and need to give this assistance. Something else is added politically – at the time the political background of the consolidation of Greece in the euro zone –: It's also about the NATO flank. You won't seriously believe you're saying: Greece is supposed to leave quietly, then to go to Moscow, Beijing or elsewhere where it is to be, economically, and the debt remains in the euro area, and the deficit is not going to be reduced. There will be migration flows, hundreds of thousands of Greeks will then travel to the prosperity zones, in addition to the migration flows from Africa, North Africa and elsewhere from where we already have them. That is why, I think, this cannot be discussed, and that is why the Minister for Finance is perfectly right. This is also a depressing access to finally create an insolvency right so that insolvency states can then leave the eurozone and the EU in a row. In reality, we have to take steps – exactly what the Minister of Finance said earlier – so that it doesn't get that far! We must take steps to enable these economies to grow, to develop employment. If we trade there, then that means we're doing a business, there's tax revenue. This is the only way the Austrian taxpayer gets the money back. I agree that what has been paid so far is gone in the form, but one has to make sure that they are able to give it back to us in a different form. That is why, I think, is exactly the right access now, that we are thinking about it and not, according to the principle of hopelessness, ensuring that everyone is superior to a fatal end to this catastrophic development. So you can neither deal with Carinthia nor with Greece nor anyone else. Second point: The famous colleague, Rürup, appeared in the 4th Handelsblatt. In May 2015, there was a need to consider the different wage structures in the rich north and in the poor south within the European Union. That is a distortion of competition. There will be no financial compensation at European level as in Austria, but it will be necessary to consider whether the low wage levels in the north, for example in Germany, are not responsible for this development. If that is the case – and it may be that Mr Rürup is really right; I believe he is right – then there must finally be better pay closures in comparable countries so that this distortion of competition simply ceases to occur. By the way, a bankruptcy and insolvency debate on states is not comparable to bankruptcy and insolvency debates in private enterprises, I also say, even though it looks like it could go in this direction in this academic debate. We speak against the background of 22 percent youth unemployment, of millions of unemployed within the European Union. I think it's about fates, it's about people – and not just academic models in this context, which you might have to solve at some point. They all know that of around 557 billion foreign private investments in Switzerland, almost 10 percent are from Greece. Samaras, the bad finger – and I think I am – has no interest in that. He has even had the offer from Switzerland to access these accounts because these are obviously largely escape fees. By this combination, one comes to this money, plus a tax system that finally pays taxes in Greece, and that the government finally implements it, a very large part of the problem is solved, not the whole, but a very, very large part. Now you shouldn't lie in the bag – that's what I'm going to end up with: Infinite support is already being given through emergency loans from the European Central Bank, with guarantees that can be discussed differently, and it is right that this should be done. It's right! [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] That is why I am of the opinion: not to discuss academically, but to really refer to the individual schicksale!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e8248	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Zakostelsky. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e8266	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen and especially our many young listeners and spectators at the gallery today! The task is full solidarity and/or clear rules of play? Mr. Cap spoke of an “academic discussion”, which does not necessarily harm the House at this level, although not every statement made here at the speaker’s desk – for example, in the direction of the British “slightly!” – is absolutely to be subsumed under the academic discussion in the narrower sense. The European Community is well known in the fifties of the last century as a result of a great wave of solidarity – and, Mr Hübner, in so far as it is already a community of fate and opportunity – as a result of the common experience of the Second World War. The founding fathers – we all know them, Schuman, De Gasperi, Adenauer and many other important statesmen – believed that on the basis of this great solidarity a united, peaceful and above all economically successful Europe should be created. It is interesting to note, however, that, despite this ever-increasing prosperity, the European states have accumulated debt mountains. This, of course, suggests that some have not finished reading their keynes. Only in the wake of various speculations, in particular in the essence of American financial service providers, when the European sovereign debt crisis has subsequently exploded, has one really become aware of the structural problems, namely massive debt problems, in Europe. Of course, this is something that I have almost missed from the Green Group today in this context – the global challenges for Europe also in the environmental field – climate change is all about us – the increasing level of conflict, the refugee dilemma, and there are many other points to mention. In particular, however, I would like to address the demographic problem, which, coupled with the Trias Trigger of sovereign debt, becomes a real problem, since many countries – and of course Greece can also be addressed – have issued checks, but checks, which are issued on the future and thus, above all on our youth. What is the conclusion of this? – I do not think that the conclusion can be that with a sixth, seventh week of vacation or maybe it can be a little more, or with a further reduction of working time, security and prosperity can be ensured in Europe. The opposite, ladies and gentlemen, is probably the case: Only by massively strengthening competitiveness, through the innovative power of our science and economy can we secure prosperity! That is where I fully agree with Mr Cap. [[Abg. Kogler: A beautiful forest and meadow speech!]] At the level of European cooperation, I believe that this means three things: on the one hand, very clear rules on the major issues of cooperation, but on the other hand, no overregulation in the details. I believe that the citizens of Europe are tired of getting ahead in everyday life. It must end overbureaucratisation. But thirdly, I would also like to address this, a meaningful European development of a united Europe is only possible on the basis of a common canon of values. I believe that the positive developments in the decades following the Second World War were mainly based on our Christian-Nightly Value Culture. With regard to the very specific question of cooperation between States – the insolvency of states is probably a question of this great Thematic areas of cooperation – a clear yes to an improved regulation! It must be regulated which skills a player has – whether it is a state or a federal country – and who bears the responsibility for it. I think everyone who knows our Minister of Finance knows that he is a man who addresses things, even at European level. We can be very confident. It is clear that it cannot be possible for a country to rest, build debts and pay for it, without having been asked or agreed in any form. The prerequisites for full solidarity – this is my summary – are clear rules of play. In this context, let me remind you of an interesting approach taken by German Chamber of Commerce and Industry President Hans Heinrich Driftmann – he was President in 2011. At the time, he called for three conditions to be met: firstly, a stronger coordination of economic policy in the European Union, secondly, a clear and clear controlling and on this basis automatic sanctions. I believe that in this respect, the various developments which the Federal Minister has raised today have been clearly developed in the last two or three years within the European Union. That means clear rules of play to express this once again, and on this basis full solidarity. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e8307	The next item is the report by Mr D. Kassinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e8325	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Insolvency is always the end of a development, where some things have gone wrong, where those responsible have previously clearly failed, where there is great damage and where innocent people come to the handcushion. - That's the situation. We have now discussed an insolvency right for states at academic level. We don't think that's necessary. There are appropriate rules. You can't compare it, it doesn't solve the problem either. I would like to focus on the time before that, i.e. the taking over of responsibility before or the task or attempt to prevent it from coming at all, i.e. the package of task, competence and responsibility, the phase before it. Policy has the task of public authorities, it has enough powers to enforce it through laws. It also has the competence to determine how much revenue it needs to carry out these tasks. It has the responsibility to ensure stable economic conditions, and it has the responsibility to spend no more than is assumed; that is quite simple. What is it like in the interplay between the European Union, Austria and the countries? – Task, competence, responsibility: Task where best to solve it. We in the European Union have the principle of subsidiarity, unfortunately it is often not respected; Criticism of us. There are now very interesting proposals also from the UK by David Cameron. We should look at these in detail, because there are proposals for a renationalisation of competences, namely competences where they belong. It's all negotiable, we have to be aware of this, or we have to raise that much more. That is a question of a will decision. The European Union is a community of will and not a pathetic community of fate or whatever the Community may be. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is negotiable, but we must articulate our will accordingly. It's nothing ground in stone. We're always pretending to be messed up in stone. We do not have to do that, we do not have to do everything in Brussels, but we can represent our interests self-confidently. In this context, it is a pity that a local body's insolvency is at all discussed. This is only possible if governments have obviously failed to do business for years. It would be so easy – to read keynes at the end – that in the long run no more spending than taking. This has not happened in Austria over the past 20, 30 years, nor at European level. There has been a phase in which this was somehow observed, which was under the government of FPÖ/ÖVP from 2000 to 2006. Otherwise, debts have always been made in Austria! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] What about responsibility at European level? How are the signals? – It is always promised, promised – and kept nothing. What has been promised in connection with the euro? – This will be a stable currency, stability criteria, a maximum of 60 percent of GDP debt et cetera. That's what we said: All right, that sounds good, we're on it! – However, nothing of all has been observed! What has been promised on Bail-out? – No liability for other countries' debts! We said: All right, if that's the case, we can agree. What happened? – Nothing of it has been observed! We have now transferred the ESM with €700 billion in potential liabilities to the neck, €2.4 billion we have already transferred and we have signed for €19 billion. What about the stability policy of the European Central Bank? – The €1,000 billion is on the market to cover junk papers and debt for crisis countries. This is not a responsible policy, and that is why we cannot approve it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But also with responsibility in Austria it does not look particularly good in this regard, especially since 2006. Devils are going to be blamed. The principle of not spending more than consumption is constantly ignored. In the Federal Government, the debt explodes, in virtually all the federal states the debt explodes, in Vienna, but also in Styria in particular, where the debt has increased from €5 billion to €5 billion in the last ten years. That is not responsible, that will go into the pants, but above all it will become very painful for our youth, for our children and grandchildren.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e8410	Next, Mr Magistrate. Rossmann speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e8428	Mr President. Minister! High house! Mr Kassinger, of course every year the Black and Blue Government took up debts between 2000 and 2007. The debt ratio has fallen, but the debt has at least been taken up. But now on the real topic. Of course, we need rules in the European Union, and there are many of them. Many of them have arisen following the financial crisis, banking union in the financial sector, half-hearted, not finally thought of the issue of deposit guarantee, no common deposit guarantee, in particular – and I would like to address this now – rules in the budgetary field. Sixpack, Twopack, Fiscal Pact and the like - you, Mr Minister, mentioned it. And you have rightly referred to the important issue of financial stability. But I would like to have an academic debate, especially with regard to these rules: Are these also the right rules that we have decided at European level, or not? Let's make the empirical sample. As regards the stability of state finances, we can see that despite Fiscal Pact, despite the Stability and Growth Pact in most countries of the European Union, the debt ratio has not fallen. We must also note that growth prospects in the European countries are poor. We have record unemployment. If we look at the other side of the pond, in the USA, we can see that GDP has again exceeded the level before the crisis – in Europe it is exactly the other way around – and the unemployment rate is lower than before the crisis – in Europe it is exactly the other way round. It is therefore necessary to ask the question, also in connection with Greece, whether this austerity policy, this neoclassically-founded austerity policy, is the appropriate policy or not, whether it would not have failed, but to pursue a Keynesian policy to get out of this dilemma. I'm not saying it for the first time: I firmly believe that the policy of extremity is the wrong way. This is the wood road in Europe! We need an innovative, sustainable policy in Europe, which is a much stronger focus on living conditions. Mr Strolz, you have said here that the European Union has brought prosperity to large masses in Europe, and I must say that unfortunately no! And with this in mind, it is precisely this austerity policy, which puts the markets at the centre of policy and raises competitiveness to the fetish. This is the problem we have in Europe. Now to Greece. Is it really so difficult to understand that, after the aid programmes have led to a humanitarian disaster, the Greek population has voted in favour of a change of power?- Oh, my God! The programmes were, however, primarily used to reorganise banks in France and Germany, and they never worked the way the donors presented themselves in the euro area. If the ongoing negotiations with Greece now threaten to fail, this has a lot to do with simply continuing the aid programmes. – This is against any economic reason. The continuation of these aid programmes will deepen the disaster in Europe! Another danger is the following: The continuation of these programmes will give enormous impetus to the radical anti-European course on the right side of the spectrum in the other states affected by the crisis. I therefore believe that we need more solidarity for Greece, we need a perspective for Greece. In other words, we must give Greece the means needed to eliminate the humanitarian disaster, but we must also open an investment offensive, not only in Greece, but throughout Europe. Of course, Greece has to do some tasks, which is out of question. It has to modernise its administration, it needs efficient and effective tax authorities, it has to tax the wealth, it has to fight corruption, it has to reduce its oversized military sector. But also the European countries in Central Europe must do their homework, those countries that have current account balances, because these countries, such as the Netherlands, Germany, Austria, live under their conditions. And as long as these countries live under their conditions, it will be difficult to give Greece and other countries in southern Europe long-term economic prospects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e8514	Next, Mr. Ing. Lugar speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e8533	Mr President. High house! The issue today is the insolvency law for states. If you ask yourself the question of whether you need such a thing, you have to say clearly: No, you don't need that because there's something like that already! – There is a so-called insolvency law, which is not to be found as a securitised and written right but has been a practice for 600 years. If you look at the state arguments of the last 600 years, you know that insolvency of states always follows the same pattern: A state is pleading, and the most massive impact this has mainly on creditors. [[Abg. Kogler: After what else?]] That is, the state has no problem when it pleads, it doesn't have to sell anything or give anything in payment, no, the problem has the creditors. And that is precisely the background for trying to introduce insolvency law, which should not mean anything other than the redistribution of creditors to those who can't do it, namely to taxpayers. That is why we are doing so, and that is precisely the background for Greece. Greece could have argued without further delay five years ago, which would only have burdened the creditors. At the time, the German and French banks were the creditors, and since they were still a bit stressed by the financial crisis in 2010 and had a good wire to the government, they asked that Greece not be dropped. And now – five years later – we are in the situation that Greece will cost us exactly the double of what it would have cost us then. That is the background why Greece has not been sent to the plebiscite. This would have been better for the taxpayer; then it would have cost only half of what he has to pay today. Anyone who can operate a calculator and who has come beyond the education level of the public school can calculate that Greece cannot be saved. Greece cannot be saved! Greece will plead! And now the taxpayer pays that the creditors would have paid at the time. Now I'm wondering, How fair is that? – At the time, five years ago, the interest rate for Greek government bonds was at least double, sometimes even three times as much as for German government bonds. Investors then invest in such bonds, get the double, the triple of interest, but have no risk, because one has decided, even from the Austrian government, that Greece may under no circumstances argue. All those who had these bonds at the time and still have them today, bonds of which they are sure that this is obviously well with the support of all of Europe, are rubbing their hands. Finally, the taxpayer remains. We have also seen this in the Hypo-Research Committee. At the mortgage one has also tried to leave the creditors outside – and pay the taxpayer. That's exactly the principle. That is why we are talking today about the insolvency law for States that we really do not need, because it is regulated by the financial markets. But we need a right, or we can talk about a right to the euro area, because it does not matter if a state is pleading. But it would be better to think, before a state gets into trouble, about how to prevent it. So we need a right in front of the pleite, not an insolvency right, but a right that is securitised, which norms how we can live together firmly in the euro area. Don't you think that's what you're saying? – Of course there is. This is called convergence criteria. That's what happened and that's it! No one cares about it, that's the problem! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] We have made these rules so that the euro works, but no one has bothered. But not only the Greeks didn't care about it, even the Germans didn't care. Remember: Maximum debt 60 percent of GDP? – Today we are astronomical about it – and no one is interested in it. That's the problem. The reason for not letting Greece go into trouble – which would be good for everyone, for the euro, for us, for the taxpayer, especially for the Greeks – is because then interest would also rise for other countries. Do you know what happens when Greece pleads? – Interests for Italy, Spain, France would rise exorbitantly, to the extent that the risk increases, and the risk is there. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] This is the reason for not letting Greece go into trouble. In the end, it is only a question of getting low interest rates in order to be able to continue indebted, and in particular of putting the invoice on the taxpayer. That's what you do at the Hypo – and now also in the States. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e8592	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Hable. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e8611	Mr President. High house! Estimated citizens! The European financial architecture, European insolvency law is today the subject of the current European hour. I would like to advance the conviction of Neos here: In principle, our future lies in a common Europe. Not in a national-state shilling thinking, but – and I say that in particular because many young people are sitting on the visitor gallery again today – the future lies in a common Europe! [[Abg. Wheelers: The NEOS have no future!]] Of course, this common Europe also includes building a stable house. And this stable house also includes a stable financial architecture. And yes, Europe, yes, we have learned from the debt crisis, we have taken action. There is now the Fiscal Pact, and of course it was clear that a contract alone will not lead to financial virtue; this shows us the past, but it was the first pillar. A second pillar has also been set – a sign of learning from the debt crisis – the ESM, the European Stability Mechanism, as an instrument for liquidity crises. But what is missing in this European financial architecture? - The third pillar. The third pillar for the necessary stability is missing, and this is the insolvency order for euro-states. Why do we need this for stability? – Mr Finance Minister, you said it would be best, of course, that we would never get into the situation where euro-states are pleading. Of course, the Fiscal Pact and the European Stability Mechanism are instruments to prevent this, but let us be honest: They won't be enough to stop pleading forever and ever. We just need to take a look at the financial history to see that there has always been these pleas, and these pleas will always exist. That is why we need an instrument for this situation. And precisely because there is no instruments, because there are no rules because there is no procedure, Greece cannot go into insolvency at any time. Mr Finanzminister, you have asked the question of who is giving the impulse that we are moving forward. I would like to say to you: Who if not the European Union?- Oh, my God! Who, if not the EU, is to move forward and, for example, work for an international order? Mr Matznetter, no, the Paris Club of course does not help. This is not an organisation, it is a coordination body, it is no longer a negotiating table in Paris; it does not help, it is not enough. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] We need integration into existing European institutions and we need a regulated procedure. It's feasible! These proposals are already on the table. For example, a recent proposal from the Centre for European Economic Research, which also points out that the function of the ESM, namely aid to liquidity crises, will not be sufficient, but that we also need rules when states fall into trouble. It is proposed to decide, after a three-year period, whether or not a State can return to the capital market after assistance. If he can't do that, then an orderly insolvency is to deal with a remediation procedure. What does such an insolvency order mean? Mr Cap, I do not know why you fall into depression here, because insolvency, a reorganisation also means a chance for a new beginning. And this new beginning has earned Greece. But there we must be open and honest: It is not possible to grow out at this level of indebtedness alone by growth, which is not at all present. We must look at reality! In addition to this new start, this opportunity that Greece has earned, the second consequence of such insolvency, of course, is the necessary consequence that private creditors bear the burden, namely those who previously collected the risk premiums – and not the taxpayer. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] That concludes, Mr President. This is also the crucial point that taxpayers are not constantly being asked to pay for the debts of others. This is not a question of solidarity. This is a question of economic reason, but it is above all also a question of justice for taxpayers. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e8686	No one has made any mention of this. I therefore conclude this debate. [[12:02:31]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e8708	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e8940	Contrary to the communication distributed in writing in the meeting room, according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure Act I agree with the report of the Quality Assurance Council for Educational Education and Education on the 2014 reference period, submitted by the Federal Minister for Education and Women and the Federal Minister for Science, Research and Economy, III-173 of the Supplements, to the Teaching Committee. [[12:03:00]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e8970	The Club Team Stronach according to § 74a Abs. 2 of the Rules of Procedure before the entry into the agenda put forward the request for the self-employed motion tabled at the same time by Mrs Ing. Dietrich, colleagues and colleagues on “Death of the host, the village – SPÖ and ÖVP destroy Austrian cultural heritage” is urgently being treated. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the implementation of the urgent request will take place at least three hours after the date of entry into the agenda, i.e. at 15 a.m. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e8992	It is proposed that the debate on points 3 to 5 and 10 and 11 of the agenda should be summarized. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. Then let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e9016	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 7 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP per 95 minutes, FPÖ 88 minutes, green 74 minutes as well as STRONACH and NEOS per 39 minutes. We shall come to the vote on these speaking times. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to be a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[12:04:46]] 1. Point Second reading: Report by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure on Amendment No 674/A by Mr Mag. Andreas Schieder, Dr. Reinhold Lopatka, colleagues on a federal law amending the Rules of Procedure Act 1975, and on the Question No 502/A by Mr Mag. Dr Matthias Strolz, colleagues on a federal law amending the Rules of Procedure Act 1975, and on the Question 547/A by Dr Eva Glawischnig-Piesczek, Members of Parliament concerning a federal law amending the Rules of Procedure Act 1975 (619 a.m.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e9068	We're now on the 1st. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. This is the first time Mr Magistrate has come. Darmann speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e9093	Mr President. High house! If we now deal with the requests made by SPÖ, ÖVP, Greens and NEOS on the right to speak for EU parliamentarians here in plenary, I would like to start by giving a brief summary of the free positioning on these requests. Ladies and gentlemen, on the one hand, it is a combination of objectively comprehensible innovations in the Rules of Procedure, but on the other hand it is also an unnecessary and system-absorbing act of the Austrian Parliament vis-à-vis the European Union. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And I would like to carry this out as objectively as possible, but of course also to a certain degree comprehensiblely emotionally as follows. On the one hand, the positives, which are to be highlighted and which are differentiated by us in the second reading in the vote, are also clarified as such. Since it is, of course, reasonable for EU proposals to debate them in the EU Committee, in the subcommittees on EU matters and also to draw on the expertise of European Parliamentarians to discuss them, it is also understandable to assign EU templates to the relevant specialist committees. When it comes to consulting on voting behaviour here in the House, here in plenary, it is clear to us that this step should be taken, as well as the fact that, in these specialist committees, EU Parliamentarians can also speak accordingly in order to comply with this advice. Furthermore, it should be pointed out positively, as there has always been a formal detour to allow for a debate contribution or a statement here in plenary that there will also be a direct right of speech for people of international rank here in plenary here in the future. This too is understandable to us and we see as an enrichment. One can expect to hear a statement by a possible UN Secretary-General here, perhaps also a statement by Mrs Merkel on the BND's intelligence activities, if he is illegal here in Austria. But just as interesting could be to follow a statement by the Russian President Putin here. We must therefore no longer seek formal detours through this innovation in this proposal, which we will also approve, in order to be able to listen to such statements. However, ladies and gentlemen, I would rather talk about the illegality associated with your requests, namely to have Members speak here in plenary to the European Parliament, an illegality which is simply explained. Until now, it is so – and this is also good – that, of course, the members of the National Council are here in the National Council, the auxiliary bodies of the National Council, the People's Procuratorate, as well as the Court of Auditors, as well as the members of the Federal Government and State Secretary responsible for the National Council. However, there is no argument at all – and therefore it is difficult to get out of the air – to have Members of Parliament here in the European Parliament to speak publicly to the Austrian Parliament for a consultation of our MEPs, ladies and gentlemen. This consultation should, however, be carried out in the EU committees, in the relevant specialist committees, as you have already said, and no one in your clubs will prevent you from talking to your own EU counterparts and to support your argument for EU proposals, ladies and gentlemen, as it does, for example, make them more intensive with their members of the EU. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is also significant that President Bures has access to the subject, because there was nothing to hear from her in the run-up to today's plenary debate, but it was also, literally, about the presentation of the EU Parliamentarians to take place here. I wonder, ladies and gentlemen: What kind of self-understanding does this Austrian Parliament have in your mind if, with this one point from your reform steps, we do nothing but send a symbol to the population, but also to the European Union, that this Austrian House should in fact represent a sub-parliament of this European Union, this European Parliament?- Oh, my God! – That is not our agreement, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There are many points here still not, or only dirtyly regulated. Take just one point: I am eager to see where these European parliamentarians will be sitting. Where will they take place: in the last row? Is this the appreciation of SPÖ, ÖVP, Greens and NEOS, which they give to their EU Parliamentarians? I'm excited about what you're going to agree on. One thing, of course, is also clear: EU parliamentarians have only lost quite nothing here on the government bank, just because one tries, artificially tries to bring a show effect, a self-sessing of European parliamentarians into this House, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But it will also, even if officially not admitted and not provided for in the requests, cut the speaking time for us Austrian parliamentarians. Because one thing is clear, ladies and gentlemen: In the preliminary meeting, also in the Presidency, when it comes to drawing up the agendas of our meetings, it has always been referred to the speaking time depending on the fixed points in the day-to-day debate and tailored to one day so that we can negotiate reasonably here. If Members of the European Parliament are now given a fixed term here, it is only final that in the Presidency in the future, the speaking time of their own parliamentarians – and this is our High House in which we should debate decisions and make decisions... [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: These are your parliamentarians too!]] – Mrs Glawischnig, this is the High House of the Austrian Parliament, the Austrian citizen, and we should take the decisions here and not cut ourselves the speaking time for the discussions here. Mr Glavischnig, you obviously did not consider this in the present motion. It goes much further, ladies and gentlemen. We do not only have a system of illegality here when it comes to speaking rights for EU parliamentarians here in the House, but you even see in our opinion – and you have so far not been able to do so in two debates in the run-up to today's plenary debate – a constitutional illegality in your requests. You see the way, the right to speak here in plenary, practically the advice for our votes here in plenary, as you put it, in order to link up with the fact that an EU Parliamentary has a club membership here in the House. What does the Republic of Austria do when deciding on EU primary law when there are EU parliamentarians – I recall the Martin list at that time – who are not arrested here with a club membership, ladies and gentlemen? What are we doing? This is an objectively unwarranted differentiation, who can advise us here in the House. If you think that Mr Othmar Karas has been expelled from the party board of the ÖVP and therefore no longer has the right to speak in the ÖVP, it is now obviously only a question of giving him a speech here in plenary. And that he is quiet in the ÖVP and does not refuse to be thrown out of the board of directors, he has been “buyed” by giving him a presence here in the Austrian Parliament. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: Party leader is not a prerequisite!]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is an access that will not enrich the quality of the debate here in the House, but rather question it, which is also for the Austrian population, whether it is useful to show further subjection to the EU and to miss a consequence on the other hand. Rather, as a national parliamentarian, we would have to insist on being able to speak in the parliaments in Strasbourg and Brussels in order to be able to carry out our self-confidence as an Austrian – and not to leave it to parliamentarians alone to the European Parliament. [[Call the Greens.]] Mr Commissioner, it is interesting for the Greens to intervene in this way. It is clear why it is suddenly necessary to have a staging for your Members here in the House: because 751 parliamentarians in Strasbourg and Brussels obviously have far too little right to speak for the people because of the lack of democratic structures. If a parliamentarian in Strasbourg has 30 seconds of speaking time to clarify his position accordingly, or if he is a high-ranking parliamentarian, perhaps even one minute's speaking time is given to make a greeting, to adopt and to say yes or no between, then of course that is too little. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] These rights would once be upgraded to represent the position of the individual Member States as parliamentarians, as people's representatives better, more directly and fundamentally, instead of having a non-democratic institutional structure, such as the European Union's current position, and having nothing to say there. The population would certainly have deserved another way. The conclusion from all over the world is: Some points are supportive, for example, when it comes to consulting in the background in the specialist committees, not a question, but when it comes to self-scheduling, the submission of the Austrian Parliament to the EU, we will have a clear rejection. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e9200	Next come Mr. Klubobmann Mag. Arbitrators to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e9218	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Today's European hour, which ended just around a quarter of an hour ago, has not yet been an Austrian member of the European Union at the speaker's desk, because it is not yet possible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. From the autumn of this year, it will be possible for the European debates here in the House to include Members of our political groups in our debate. In order to be honest, I do not see this as a subject if one, two, three, four, five MEPs from the various political groups can speak here, but I see this as an enrichment for the Austrian Parliament and the European debate. What do we want? . We want our MEPs – ‘ours’ is the name of the Austrian MEPs to the European Parliament – to be able to take the discussions that are being held here in the Austrian Parliament and in Austria to Brussels and Strasbourg and to bring in the points that are being discussed in Parliament. On the other hand, we also want the points discussed in the European Parliament to be included in the debate here in the implementation of European law. I think that this connection and this interconnecting is necessary. It also strengthens the commitment to the common Europe, and it also brings us an additional expertise of the MEPs of Europe. We must also be aware that we have a common Europe that concerns politics, the media and the public. And that is why the sharing of this political debate, the involvement of MEPs in the political debate is a real further step and another element of what we are working on, namely an active Parliament. Proposal for a European Parliament and Council Directive on the I would like to thank the opposition parties for their active cooperation and cooperation. At the end there is now a four-party request. The debate process has started with all six political groups in this House. A few, that is, two, didn't want to join in at the end. Although I have a little the impression of what I have heard from Mr Darmann now, it is not easy yet to find so really striking arguments as to why you should be against it. For example, at the time of speech: We have now allocated 5 minutes fixed to each member of the European Parliament who is nominated – one per group. This does not cut the speaking time of the Austrian National Councillors in the least. [[Abg. Darmann: In practice very well!]] And then also to understand the seating order as a “substantial symbol”: That the Members of the European Parliament can then use the available free seats for this debate, I think, of course. [[Abg. Darmann: Not even that is planned and planned!]] Austria has always been strong and well represented in the European Parliament – and we should mention this very briefly at this point. I only recall the long-standing leadership of the Hannes Swoboda Group in the Socialist Group, after all, the strongest or second strongest group in the European Parliament. However, I also recall Mr Lunacek, Mr Karas, Mr Leichtfried and other colleagues who now hold important positions in the European Parliament, and it can be exciting to get out of here. [[Abg. Darmann: Let them go to the specialist committees!]] What is it about, in short? – The current European hour, four times a year, is about EU declarations, at least twice a year, and in the future is also about the new “regime” with the EU issues that take place not only in the EU committees but also in the specialist committees. In conclusion, mention should be made of the following: It is also my personal concern that we reintroduce, that important personalities such as the UN Secretary-General, since Vienna – often falsely referred to as the third UN site, but the locations of the United Nations are all the same – are also one of the UN locations, so that even such outstanding persons in the world, but also those from Europe's policy can speak here, because that, I believe, can only be enriching. In the end, however, it will continue to be so, and it will also have to be true that the Austrian Parliament will decide on Austrian laws alone with the votes of the Austrian Members. But hearing a little different voices in the discussion has not yet hurt anyone.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e9282	Next come the club woman, Ing. Dietrich speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e9300	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! Ladies and gentlemen! We from the Stronach team vote against the European Union's right to speak here in the Austrian Parliament. I'm setting this up as follows. Even now, European parliamentarians have the opportunity to actively participate in the legislative process in the political debate. We have regulated this possibility in § 31c of the Rules of Procedure. That is, they would have – I am talking about the possibility which was not perceived – and I cannot remember that sometime one of my colleagues would have said that a parliamentarian from the European Parliament was here consulting – so they theoretically had the opportunity, but they did not use it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schönegger]] And I'm wondering, How much is the wish of these Members to be involved in our decision-making processes? [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Abg. Darmann:...that they are on TV!]] I would like them to be involved in the political debate in the Committee, where there is a real discussion on issues, because I would also like to see the argumenting final. [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: This is not the case in the specialist committees!]] Mrs Colleague, it is already possible in the committee, but it has never been used. [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: No, not in the specialist committees!]] Also in the specialist committee! [[Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek: That's wrong!]] According to § 40, one could teach persons at any time. So who has so far prevented these people from getting involved? I mean, only when we believe that they want to get involved and discuss with us can we agree that they are taking the floor here in plenary. And also: Where do we have the infrastructure for that? Should they be on the government bench or somewhere between the delegates? – This too is a question that has not been clarified. From our point of view, this is a populist access, which is little thought out, and that is why we do not agree with it.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e9387	Mr Klubobmann's next speech is Dr. Lopatka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e9405	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Since Mr Darmann is still here, I've come to my mind [[Abg. Kitzmüller: He's always here!]] As the bad guy thinks, so he speaks! – He addressed the show. [[Abg. Honey: The bad guy, but not the colleague Darmann!]] Do you know what this is about? – This is about work – and not about the show! [[Abg. Darmann: Exactly!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We are talking about working together with the European Parliamentarians, and we want to improve them. [[Abg. Darmann: Let them go to the specialist committees and take the floor there!]] The big difference in access to European issues between us – with "us" I mean not only the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), but also the Social Democrats here in the House, the Greens and the NEOS – and you from the FPÖ is the following: We see the future of our country in a strong Europe, and that is why we consider it justified to enter new countries here. [[Abg. Strache: We believe in this Austria!]] Of course, from the point of view of the right-wing theoretics, it can be thought that: Should it be allowed?, there is no reciprocity. As national Members, we cannot speak in the European Parliament, you are right, not even in the committees there. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Not even in the Landtag!]] We have created first possibilities of cooperation, which we have had for a very long time, namely COSAC, but also now there are the possibilities for the Fiscal Pact, where there are very specific formats. That's what we should work on! If we as a national Parliament take a step forward here before the European Parliament takes a step in the right direction, namely to work more closely with national parliaments, I think this is absolutely correct. Now you could say: Yes, is it justified to be able to speak here in the European Parliament on matters which are exclusively our right in the decision? Let me give you an example: Of course, the new accession of an EU Member State, which is voted here with us, concerns only the right of national Members to say yes or no. But is it a disadvantage if an Austrian parliamentarian, who is even rapporteur in the European Parliament, brings in the expertise here? - Not at all! [[Abg. Darmann: In the committees!]] No, even here in the high house! You think that goes too far; that is your right. We have also discussed this in detail, and we say that we see the future of our country – I say it again – in a strong European Union that we should take this step. Yes, we are not back here within the 28 EU Member States. With us there are four other EU Member States in which there is already this right of speech. And by the way, there are also days of land where the right to speak is already given. [[Abg. That's where we hear Erwin Pröll talking!]] Because a Carinthian has just spoken from among the liberals: The Carinthian Landtag is also in the process of giving the MEPs the right to speak. The Austrian People's Party was always offensive when it came to Austria's active participation in the European Union. And it does not come about that you mentioned Members of Parliament to Karas, because he is certainly one of the most active Austrian Members at European level, and if he takes the floor here, this is not to your detriment, Mr Darmann, you will hear so many things here that are good if you hear it from him. [[Abg. Darmann: He could speak in the specialist committee!]] I am glad that now the NEOS are ready to take this step with us, with the government parties, and with the Greens. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kitzmüller.]] Why? – For you, it always means a unity party when working well together here. I don't know if opposition means always having to be against it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] Mr Belakovich-Jenewein, I think the essence of democracy is to come to a common solution – and not always to stay in opposition. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[New call of the abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] [[Abg. Blow: Protect your heart, Mr. Lopatka!]] My access to our political work is to win positions, but also to make sure that we come to a common solution, and not to say from the outset: I am against it because I have to be against it, and if an opposition party goes along with it, I am against it as a ‘unity party’. - That's not fair! That's not a real access! I have another access to our parliamentary work, but it is your right to stay in the Njet. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Exactly! Thank you!]] You don't need to say "thank you," I'm just telling you: [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: But I am a polite person!]] For the Republic, it is too little if a party has a self-understanding where one remains in the No. In the interests of the Republic, it is best possible to cooperate with Europe. Our future lies in a strong Europe, and we have therefore said to us in the club after in-depth discussion: Yes, we are going to take this step, although we know that it is a departure from the practice so far that we only approve of this right of speech to the Members elected to the National Council! In conclusion: None of us think that the Members of the European Parliament are here on the Government Bank. I can take this concern from you, Mrs Klubobfrau Dietrich, and also from you, Mr Darmann. Don't worry, the Members won't sit here on the government bank. We will find a very good solution here. Let yourself be surprised!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e9643	Next came the Green Club, Mrs Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek, who spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e9661	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I am a little surprised at the rhetoric that I have now heard here from the previous speaker of the FPÖ, who spoke of “subjugation”, as well as from “sub-parliament” and “self-scheduling”. [[Abg. Darmann: Symbolism!]] Obviously, your alien phobia even extends to Austrian MEPs. I can't explain otherwise that you have to resort to such a choice of words as if it were an infiltrating by foreign Members. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I see this newly designed right of speech as an appreciation of the Austrian National Council. Of course, the possibility that in the plenary session everyone will discuss together is something quite different from the possibility of holding a technical debate only in committees or in the EU subcommittee. This also serves the quality of our debates. We'll hear some more interesting things. I'm looking forward to it. I am pleased to hear my colleague Eugen friend Ulrike Lunacek, Othmar Karas. But, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, if you are perfectly consistent, Mr Vilimsky will obviously not speak here. Or how can this be understood? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Bravoruf des Abg. Krainer.]] [[Call to the FPÖ: This is a stupid argument!]] I mean, it's going to do us good, because it's about being together, it's about expertise, it's about experiences that we can make better use of. From September we can use this intensively, we can also invite international and European personalities. I think it would be very helpful for many debates. For example, on the refugee issue, we can hear Commissioner Mogherini, the EU Security and External Commissioner, or someone from UNHCR or a Commission President. I believe that this can only promote the quality of our debates. On this issue we are pioneers, but I think that this will soon be discussed in many European Parliaments. So far, there are only four or five who have designed the Rules of Procedure in such a way that Members of the European Parliament can participate in discussions. I believe that it is an important point that they can also bring themselves directly into the specialist committees – something that has not yet been possible – and explain why which directive has been adopted in such a way as it is available, or why what backgrounds have played a role in the discussion. This expertise is really an additional quality. Then: It is often said in retrospect here in this House very, very negative about European directives, without really having to deal with the backgrounds. That is why this expertise in the specialist committees is so important. It is not only a Europeanization, it is also an internationalization, and I believe that as a modern Austrian party, one can only be very open to this. It is therefore incomprehensible to me that we cannot now adopt this new regulation in common, as an all-party proposal, or at least with the votes of Team Stronach. I call on Mr Dietrich to consider this again, because many arguments have not come from her side now. From my point of view, there is no reasonable argument against dialogue, for exchange of expertise, for exchange of knowledge, for exchange of experience – of course here in this Parliament, exactly on this “tribe” – under quotation marks – which, of course, also has a public character. It does not harm the Austrian public and also the media public to experience and see more European awareness in the Austrian National Council.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e9727	Mr Dr. Rosenkranz has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e9746	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, What has now been said or addressed, or what we are now doing with how to interpret laws and then apply, please also let us be our case. We have our objections, which we share with other political competitors. I am thinking of the Klubobmann of the ÖVP from Niederösterreich Schneeberger, who has clearly said that this is not in question at all. Where one is chosen, one speaks – that is a simple principle! Mr Lopatka is not here now, who first meant where Mr Darmann was, anyway, here. He himself, Lopatka, is not here now. So it is self-evident what “arguments” are being tried to deal with the FPÖ here, namely first, ridiculously, referring to Mr Darmann, to say: [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Is he even there?, and then to be not here very shortly after. It really is self-evident with what “seriousness” you hold this discussion! [[New welcome to the FPÖ.]] In fact, it is your concern that you want to put the EU's thoughts to the fore by saying that you have worked here, it is only about the work here in Parliament. – The work in Parliament looks so good for you that someone can talk about a subject for five minutes here?- Oh, my God! This is for you the work in Parliament?- Oh, my God! We have said that we want to go where work is being done, where not only “the ritual of limited speaking time” – under quotation marks – does exist, that is, in the committees. There we wanted the EU Members when it comes to issues! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is not about us wanting to rule out the members of the EU in general. What we don't want is what you're actually planning, the show, the pure show policy. You want to make them from here – no matter where you sit or anything else. You want to have a certificate of performance for your Members, because it is really clumsy. But maybe there's something else behind it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nice to meet you.]] You can speak later so that you can make it clear what Mr. Klubobmann Lopatka said on 6 June. May 2013 – I quote – said: “At the end, the question will be whether we still have national states.” – This was said by Secretary of State Lopatka at a panel discussion in the House of the European Union. This is where the journey is supposed to go: the Austrian National Council is gradually disassembling, and the discs are still so small, to disassemble and disassemble, so that we are really only an execution body here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You have someone you probably want to present right now, perhaps the true background is that someone in the board of EIAs is not allowed to talk anymore, for that you have to invite him here. On the other hand, we have a living practice: With us in the club, EU Members of our Group are welcome, and they also explain to us what they are doing in Brussels. With you, communication is likely to be another, so you need it here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] With regard to the inequality of Members of the European Union who do not belong to a group of the National Council, you have not presented any factual justifications at all, for if you really meant it honestly, you would also provide that. But what did Mr Karas say in March 2012 – I quote – is: “If we do not think the EU as the United States of Europe, we have not drawn sufficient lessons from the crisis.” So Karas says he wants United States of Europe. And that's what you want, too, and there's obviously a great consensus about that. The Greens also want to have a system that is far away from the citizen – really true! – who even dares not to choose the Greens in secret elections. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kogler]] This has to be ruled out from your point of view, and this will also allow your voting on issues of direct democracy to be concluded. For us from FPÖ, it is a matter of principle of law, while Mr Lopatka of the ÖVP referred to it as a legal theoretical matter. We say: We are elected to a certain body, and there we talk, and as long as it is not guaranteed that this is also seen vice versa... [[Abg. Amon: The Court of Auditors...!]] Why is the EU, why is the EU Parliament so anxious to say: Are they not working there to be interested in what a national Parliament has to say? Or: What about a federal council representing national interests? Why can't he speak in his country day? Or, vice versa: Why can, when it comes to working,... [[Abg. Amon: We do!]] Not in everyone! When it comes to saying that as a national council member you want to speak in a country day, because it's about the work here, then at once it's not the point anymore, then we don't need it. It's just that the big EU is talking about this. There are all agreed – except for the Stronach team, that this has now rejected, but primarily except for the liberals. We from the FPÖ say: National parliaments have a role to play – that is good, and they should keep it!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e9842	Now comes Mr Mag. Vavrik. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e9861	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We talked early today about how important it is to create common rules to ensure a strong Europe, to secure a strong Europe, but it is even more important that the members of the nation states understand themselves as citizens of Europe. It is even more important that decisions taken at European level are perceived as legitimate. There are, of course, shortcomings. This is what we see, for example, in the speeches made by colleagues from the FPÖ Group. But we can also see that outside of this house. For example, the last "Eurobarometer" has shown that only one third of Austrian citizens have a positive picture of the EU. This means that Austria is below the EU average, and there is a need for re-examination. The reasons for this are diverse. But I believe that better communication between the EU level and the national level can and should help. The relevant proposal will take us a big step further. With the right to speak by the EU Parliamentarians, Austria lays a foundation for Europe's policy to become stronger than what it actually is, as an internal policy. European policy is domestic policy, and Austrian policy is usually also EU policy. Qualified debates by EU Parliamentarians in this House will bring Brussels a little closer. And by the way, Mr Darmann: It is not the right of the EU Parliamentary, it is a right of the clubs to appoint an EU Parliamentary or a Parliamentary for a five-minute speech here. Of course, the FPÖ is free not to mention Mr Vilimsky and not to give him his 5 minutes. He can't push himself. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: By the way, dear NEOS, we have, unlike you, more members of the EU! Not just the vilimsky!]] In this sense, we look forward to the first debate in the National Council and we fully support the initiative proposal – which we had first introduced – even though we would have gone a bit further formally. And I am particularly pleased that the debate was continued after the EU election. I believe it is important that we also deal with EU issues outside election times. Indeed, participation in the last EU election was relatively low, and I hope that this new regulation will improve. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e9901	Next, Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e9920	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Ladies and gentlemen at the gallery! Let me start by thanking my colleagues, members of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and the Committee on Rules of Procedure. [[Call:Yes]] In recent months we have discussed many important and interesting legislative instruments not only, but also decided. Today we're back at such a point. It was always difficult to come to a common denominator on Rules of Procedure and bring them on a broad basis. It's all the more gratifying that we've done this in the last few months. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I do not understand one at all. I have always assumed that Europe is all of us, and I do not find a legal basis that speaks against this right of speech – and we all know the difference between a right of speech and a right of vote, I know that for how long I have discussed it, also in the Committee and before in the Committee on Culture. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Darmann.]] I therefore believe that it is an important step that we try together to assess the interests of our citizens – which we have here, of course, at national level, but also, with an impact on the European level, together – very, very intensively, I say, also in terms of the cross-section. And I think the Green Clubwoman was the first to say that we had an interesting matter to discuss. If I were to think only of tomorrow, i.e. the Foreign Rights Amendment Act, it would be very interesting if we had much more relations not only with the Commissioner or with a Commissioner, but also with the relevant committees and MEPs of the European Parliament – even if they were all members of the parliamentary club – would be more connected. Please, that's no contrast, that's the most natural thing at all if we improve these encounters and the interaction here. So I'm quite positive about that. But let me also say – this has completely fallen – that we have long tried to find a regulation for non-medical excuses. I think that's a success. And above all, I would like to say thank you for making a list of open questions in the Committee and also in the Committee, which we will be discussing in the near future. I should also like to say that I believe that Parliament or Parliamentaryism is called on to develop its control rights as far as the subcommittees are concerned. We have also recorded this as a point. I would be pleased if we not only debate the open points we have on our list, just as quickly as the last issues, in the coming weeks and months, but also if we come to a decision-making process. In this sense: Let us try to feel together as Europeans here in this national Parliament too! I think that is a good day for our parliamentarianism too. Voices (The sitting was suspended at 3 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e9957	Next, Mr Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e9976	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear visitors to the Austrian Parliament! Mr Rosenkranz, briefly to clarify: Mr Lopatka is extremely interested in the debate, but he is now visiting a group of students from the HTL Mureck and will present them with the benefits of the right of speech of the European Parliamentarians and will clarify the common idea of the European Union. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: So if this is such a reconnaissance as before...!]] [[Abg. Darmann:... so far he has not brought it together!]] Mr Rosenkranz, if you are not necessarily in favour of a common Europe, then you probably do not want to hear and talk about it, which can also be a reason for you. [[Abg. Darmann: Europe is not EU!]] I would be interested – and I may be different from Mrs Glavischnig – if one of your four Members – you have four – here in Parliament reports on what he has to say from Europe. So we can say that if four parties are in favour of this solution, that there is a right of speech for the European Parliamentarians, democracy is, and then one should take note of that in this respect. We are quite clear about this Europe. [[Abg. Darmann: EU! EU! To Europe we also confess ourselves! You confess to the EU!]] A strong future in Europe for a strong Austria! I think that's important, and that's why I can only underline what German Federal Chancellor Kohl has already said: “Europe is our future. Europe is also our destiny.” Let us be glad that we live in a common Europe. Mr Lopatka has already said that in our club we have dealt intensively with the issue of speaking rights and have finally come to the conclusion that it is right that the European Parliamentarians also have the opportunity to comment on individual issues here in Parliament. Where they sit, I think, Mrs Dietrich, is our last problem; we will solve that. Organizational problems have always solved Parliament's management excellently, as they will also be able to solve this great challenge of seating for the European Parliamentarians accordingly. But perhaps the reason you are opposed to being – in order to become a little polemic – can be that you do not have a member of the European Parliament and therefore perhaps do not place such a great deal of emphasis on this right of speech. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz:... let him not speak in there!]] Since the EU is constantly growing in importance, particularly in the field of the economy and in almost all other areas, and we are of course adopting many laws here, which come from Brussels, and, of course, also at national level, which are of great importance in Brussels – how closely this is interconnected – it is, I believe, right and important for us to have this expertise from Europe here in our Parliament, so that our colleagues from the European Parliament can speak here and be involved in the deliberations of the National Council. That's good for us, that's good for Europe. In this sense, we certainly agree with this joint motion.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e10069	Next, Mr Brosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e10088	Mr President. High house! Yes, there were originally three different requests: those of the government parties, namely Mr Schieder and Mr Lopatka, who, in principle, had the right to speak here in plenary for the current hours and for the declarations of Europe; there has been the request of the Greens, in which we have generally proposed a right of speech in European-related debates; and there has been NEOS's request, which would have provided for a general right of speech for the MEPs of Europe. Now there is a compromise, which is borne by everyone, which seems to be seen as reasonable by all, in which, compared to the proposal of the government parties, there is a right of speech in the plenary, even in the case of primary legal changes, i.e. in the case of changes in the Treaty – the ESM Treaty, the Lisbon keyword, the new Member States’ accessions. I believe that this is also viable in this context. The fear, which everyone shared, concerned whether a more comprehensive right of speech would also be feasible in terms of compatibility with the obligations of the European Parliamentarians in Brussels. I think we've found a good solution now. The points raised by the FPÖ are therefore difficult to understand for me, because many of them should also apply to the committees. So that it should be a “submission” – quoted by Darmann in this case – if you have a right to speak in plenary session for European Parliamentarians, but this is presented as positive in the committee, which is not really conclusive for me. [[Abg. Darmann: The work is planned in committee! Here it is pure staging!]] – You work in the committee and you don’t work in plenary?- Oh, my God! I don't know, that's an interesting definition. What can be seen, however, is that there is no public in the Committee, and I think this is quite a disadvantage because I believe – and this is also a legitimate interest – that a 44 percent voter participation or whatever we had in the last European elections should not be pleased with anyone, but that it should be the goal not only to make Europe visible every five years in a campaign but also to ensure more visibility between them. [[Call to the ÖVP: That's the point!]] This, by the way, affects the media the same way. When you look at it, you can hardly see Europeans in front of the elections, but in between. It is also extremely difficult to present this issue in Austria, but this is not because there would be no reasonable initiatives or any significant European parliamentarians working for us in Brussels. So from this point of view, it is a legitimate approach, I think, to make Europe more visible here. If you call it “show, ” it may be. I see this clearly as different, I see it as the possibility to make it transparent that what everyone is talking about – how closely European policy and national policy are linked, how many dependencies there are, how many provisions there are being implemented – are taking place here in the house. I can also say: With our Greens, our MEPs are also relatively often present in the club, and this is very interesting every time, because there are simply aspects that cannot be taken into account from here to this extent, which cannot be taken into account in the daily work, and it is always a resurgence of the debate if what is happening in Brussels, what is taking place in the European Parliament, is also brought to the club meeting. I do not think anyone of our Members can say that this is not an additional benefit, and I do not know why this should not be done in the same way in plenary. So this is a reasonable solution, which is also viable, and I am pleased that after a few months of negotiations there is now a request for the appropriate majority.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e10133	The next item is the speech by Mr Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e10151	Mr President. High house! I am of course pleased that we are going to decide on this today, which is an important step. Our initiative proposal, which was the first one in this context, went a little further – Dieter Brosz has already said it – but it is a good compromise that we now decide so, because it is precisely about the exchange of different political levels. Especially in the light of the fact that, whatever you constantly criticise, up to 60 percent, or more, of the European level regulations are imposed, so that it needs to be understood by the National Council, this exchange is necessary, and that is why it makes sense for the European Parliaments to have the opportunity to speak here. This exchange will, of course, work in both directions, on the one hand for us as national Members, so that we can get the things out of the European Parliament, and, on the other hand, for the European Parliamentarians who are taking part in the debate here and also for the arguments of the Austrian parliamentarians they hear in the National Council. [[Abg. Darmann: (in the direction of gallery) They can sit up there!]] – Yes, but there they can then discuss when they are allowed to talk here. The second is – Mr Brosz has just mentioned it – not only about Parliamentarians, but also about the public. That is why the argument is that they are allowed to talk in committee anyway, of course not legitimate, because the Committee is not public. Now we can discuss for hours whether it would be useful for us to make committees public in general. We have a clear position on this: of course, so that the public can also see it there. But as long as it is not, there is at least the possibility for European Parliamentarians to speak and, accordingly, the public – and we have already heard it – to be found in the ‘Eurobarometer’, as far as confidence in the EU is concerned, usually always at the end – that Austrian citizens can listen here when European parliamentarians speak. Mr Darmann, you said it was our House and here we will decide what our rules are. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Darmann.]] Yeah, that's right, we decide. But, as already said, so many rules come to us, which have their beginning in the European Union, in the European Parliament, that of course this perspective is very, very useful for us, because in many areas we need to understand the rules that have been made at European level here too. [[Abg. Darmann: The best discussions of the clubs are in the committees!]] – Of course, in the committees, it makes sense – I say so – but it makes sense here too. And one last point, because you're always talking about this irregularity, saying that it's an inaccurate differentiation that only Members of the European Union can talk about who belong to a club: In this respect, you have a mistake in thinking, because it is not a right of Members of the European Parliament, but a right of Parliamentary clubs to invite their MEPs to advise them. [[Abg. Darmann: But then your argument is wrong! You want an opinion, no advice!]] It is also Parliament's right to invite these people to speak here, not the right of the famous personalities to approach Parliament and to say: I have a right, I would like to talk here now! – It is also the right of the parliamentary clubs to bring the Members who belong to the same club here so that they can discuss and advise. In this sense, I believe it is a good step that we are taking here, that we can also bring Europe and European issues to the National Council with the appropriate Members and discuss them here too, so that we can bring Europe into this Parliament and closer to the citizens.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e10261	Next, Mrs Mag. Muttons. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e10279	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been said today that European policy has long been a part of internal policy. What is decided today at European level directly affects our lives in Austria and covers all areas of life: This goes from consumer protection to environmental protection or social protection. As far as the issue of TTIP is concerned and the negotiations which are now taking place, the result will ultimately be taken into account in the European Parliament. It is therefore all for this and nothing against the fact that we are giving our MEPs the opportunity to discuss with us here in Parliament and to represent and justify their positions here as well. With the right to speak for EU MEPs in Parliament, I believe we will not only enrich Europe's discussions, but will ultimately create more transparency and the public through the debate here in the House. These improvements make it easier for Austrians to monitor and adopt EU legislation. However, you can also easily track which positions the European Parliament takes and which positions we take here – sometimes in contrast to him. I therefore do not understand the argument of the FPÖ in the least. Why should it be better to listen to the members of the EU alone in the committees and in our clubs behind closed doors, rather than to discuss with you in public? Your rejection, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, seems to me symptomatic. It testifies to low contact with reality and also to very low self-confidence. I wonder, Mr Darmann, in which categories you think. They speak of “submission. ” Then I wonder what an expression of right to speak, “submission, ” if I give someone the right to speak! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Darmann: Symbolism!]] A limited right of speech for 18 Austrian Members of the European Union means anything but a task of our Parliament. [[Abg. Kickl: The one to talk, however, is elected for another Parliament!]] We are a self-confident Parliament, we are an open Parliament – and we are not in agreement. We want to inform people as best we can, we want to actively interfere in EU policy. That is what we are doing, and that is what we need to debate. [[Abg. Kickl: You don't need to be elected now?]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e10349	Mr Wöginger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e10367	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The discussion is rather strange, because it is often also here in the National Council that we are actually too little involved in the processes and processes at European level. This is often the subject of: It is decided over us that we have received too little information about the individual departments! Therefore, the logical consequence is that we offer MEPs the opportunity to speak and answer here, both in the relevant committees and here in plenary. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: How do I get answers...?- Oh, my God! Such a fool!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, I can only say: Do not be afraid of your own Members if they have the right to speak here in plenary or if they take the floor here. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] What are you afraid of? [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] It is an additional benefit if EU legislation is to be ratified here if, in the run-up to the present hour of Europe, as we have already had it, EU MEPs – one per group – can speak for 5 minutes and explain things from their point of view as MEPs in Europe. This is certainly an advantage for us in the decision-making process, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] In the Committees it is even more important from my point of view. Why? . We are currently dealing with all the expertise in the EU sub-committee, but we now have the possibility that it will be allocated to the respective specialist committees. As a social speaker, there are countless materials that are dealt with at European level, including ECJ judgments, which I am glad and grateful for when we can discuss and debate this in the Committee on Social Affairs. I see no disadvantages at all when a member of the European Parliament can also speak on this subject and take place in the back ranks. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkränz: Is this the admission of the ignorance?]] Don't be afraid, colleagues from the FPÖ: It will not be dramatic for your group either, and I assume that you and your colleagues are in so much agreement that here in Parliament the speeches of the dignity of the House are still in line. However, I would like to add another aspect which has not yet been mentioned: With this request in the Rules of Procedure, we are also amending the grounds for apologies for Members – at least also – to replace or supplement the excuse: In the absence of more than 30 days of a Member's absence, the medical reasons are extended and will therefore include in future also pregnancies or post-retirement periods as well as the consequences of accidents. This is done with the right of speech for Members of the European Parliament, and we are self-confident Members who do not see a problem when, in future, Members of the European Parliament can speak here in plenary for five minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e10436	Mrs Mag. Grossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e10455	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we are taking a positive step towards increased cooperation between national and European levels, between state and European law, in order to intensify cooperation. We have to keep in mind again and again, in fact both levels are inseparably intertwined. Only in consciousness has this not yet arrived everywhere, and I look right in front of me in this sector towards FPÖ bank series. If I look at some of the Members, I understand that they sometimes want to hide them. But that cannot be the purpose of a responsible policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Hello, hello, hello!]] [[Abg. Darmann: That's incredible!]] It is about intensifying cooperation and setting a clear, visible sign for the population that Europe's policy is not a "parallel universe", but that we are part of Europe's policy. Many of our decisions – and my previous speaker mentioned this – are already more or less pre-determined by European law, and we are also implementing European law here, and some of those decided at European level are directly applicable here. [[Abg. Kickl: Then we'll lock the store!]] All the more important it is to be informed and involved early. I also express this consciously as an order and debt to inform and commit myself in order to be able to participate here and to keep this contact really alive. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: That hasn't happened yet! For tomorrow the Republic looks like this!]] [[Calls and calls between representatives of FPÖ and ÖVP.]] And here the right to speak in plenary is a partial aspect, of course not all, but a very important symbol and a visible sign to see itself as part of this common Europe and to bear responsibility together. As Austrian parliamentarians, we also have a very effective instrument to influence the second part of European legislation, namely the instrument of binding opinion, which allows us to determine the voting behaviour of our Council members. That's not what many other parliaments have. Here, Parliamentarians can mutually support each other at European and national level, in order to be able to represent and carry out common concerns together. As an example, I would like to mention the ban on bee-damaging plant protection products. Here we have worked together and achieved that. I would really like to appeal to the courage of all Members to use the instruments we have and also to make available this common symbol of the right of speech in plenary, which is our public “formation”.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e10566	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? I see we have another word. Mrs Pilz. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e10591	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Grossmann is perfectly right, the European Union is not a parallel universe. And for many good reasons, which have been mentioned by almost everyone who has participated in the debate, we will, of course, vote in favour of this proposal. Mr Pendl referred to another important point, and this is a parallel universe, namely the question of how we, as Members of Parliament, can control the intelligence services in a new and improved Rules of Procedure. This is a very crucial point that we must speak about very openly in the reform of the Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no reason to worry about the ÖVP, because we have jointly put forward very reasonable preparatory work, we have looked at some models such as Norway and Switzerland and we know that we can improve this. I say it quite openly: It is a difficult condition for me – and not only for me, I believe for a number of members of the government – that the Minister of Defense tells us in the Subcommittee of the State Defense Committee: I'm sorry, but there's no answer to the question of whether there's a contract between the army intelligence office and NSA! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fekter.]] How's that? How are we supposed to control? How can we control it on the basis of these Rules of Procedure if the Minister can say that there is no answer? That is why, as Switzerland has, as Norway has, the Netherlands, the Federal Republic of Germany and many others, we need a much better rules of procedure. We need good and functioning intelligence services, not only to combat terrorism, but we also need good and functioning parliamentary control. We all know that! That's why we need to look at the models. And there are excellent examples such as the very self-confident Swiss Members who say: We are not sure to be prescribed by the NSA, which may be presented to us. As a parliamentary control body, everything is presented to us, including ongoing operations, at least the Treaties and everything there is to do with them. This works in Switzerland! And what works in Switzerland can work well in Austria as well. We need to talk about this, and that is why I think that this reform of the Rules of Procedure is a major parliamentary project in the future. We have already succeeded in the investigation committee as a minority right, which is very, very important for this parliamentary democracy, and one of the important next steps – I give Otto Pendl perfectly right – is a sharp parliamentary control of civil and military intelligence services, including services such as the NSA and the German Federal Intelligence Service and certainly also Russian, Chinese and many other services when something goes on, there is always a realistic danger that Parliament will come up with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e10649	No one is reporting on this. The debate is now actually closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law in 619 of the Supplements. The present draft law may be amended in accordance with § 82 para. 2 C 2 of the Rules of Procedure shall be decided only on the presence of at least half of the Members and by a majority of two-thirds of the votes cast. I therefore begin by stating the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. Mr Hizu is in favour of a separate vote by Mrs Ing. Mr Dietrich and Mr Mag. Darmann before. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the request for separate vote and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. We first come to a separate vote on paragraph 1 as amended by the Committee's report, and I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this part of the draft law to give a positive signal. – This is unanimously accepted. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on paragraphs 2 to 7 as amended by the Committee's report, and I would ask those Members of the House who agree to these parts of the draft law to give a positive signal. – This is accepted by the majority. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted on, including the title and receipt of the Committee's report, and I ask those ladies and gentlemen who have given their approval here to give a positive sign. – This is accepted by the majority. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. In accordance with Article 108 of the Rules of Procedure, the third reading of this draft law may take place at the earliest 24 hours after the conclusion of the second reading. [[13:12:25]] 2. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (583 e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, with which the Federal Financial Framework Act 2016 to 2019 will be adopted – BFRG 2016-2019 (616 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e10729	We're now on the 2nd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Podgorschek. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e10754	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! A key element of the Federal Financial Framework Act – and, of course, the great unknown – is the tax reform promised by the government, which is intended to relieve the labour factor. I assume to the government that they will be on the 17th. In March, only one paper has been submitted so that it can survive politically, because this tax reform is not yet in the final version. Counter-financing – as we have partly removed the media – is basically only done through further revenue, and in fact hardly and only very vaguely formulated by cutbacks in expenditure. This means that it basically takes place a redistribution from one bag to the other. Therefore, only after the elections in autumn do it threaten to increase both fees and massive tax increases, so that the taxpayer will again pay for this “tax reform” in the final effect. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] One point is the revenue from the so-called tax fraud, which is estimated at €1.9 billion. From my point of view, this is an blatant prelude to the public to withdraw taxes and to the deep distrust of the government of the population. The introduction of an account register means additional burden on the banks and, in turn, more bureaucracy, which is supposed to be abolished, and, at the end of the day, we have already heard this morning in a debate contribution, leads to a glass person. This is like a red thread to the data storage of stocks. The whole discussion is moving towards the gradual abolition of cash and more and more to the fact that the state is mixing in other areas of public life. This is the biggest attack on the privacy of the people in Austria – I confirm to Mr Vetter in his statements this morning. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It puts the state over the citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, George Orwell's visions have long arrived. “Thank you” SPÖ and “thank” ÖVP! [[Abg. Krainer: That says one who is for the registration register!]] [[Abg. Kickl: Your chancellor doesn't even know where he made the Matura!]] [[Abg. Krainer: At least he has her!]] A reform can only succeed if parallel tax rates and social charges are reduced. Otherwise, no tax reform takes effect! It's still in the arse! We have an expenditure problem – and not a revenue problem!, yes, that is the only one where I give the Minister of Finance right, but obviously the rest of the government does not accept it and constantly ignores these arguments. Even the EU Commission has clearly and clearly noted in its recommendations the competition between revenue and expenditure competence. The main problem of budgetary policy is the cooperation of the federal and state governments in this unprecedented financial compensation, which we repeatedly take up and attack. It should now be renegotiated – well, we will see what comes out of who will be the winner. What else does the EU Commission say? – loss of efficiency in public administration. This has been shown by the Court of Auditors for years, if not decades, and nothing has happened so far. Even Parliament's budget has noted that there is no further details in the field of public administration savings and promotion. The consequence can only be that the expenditure and revenue responsibility comes into hand. We need to get away from these triple and multiple loads, so we also need a reasonable and manageable transparency database. What else did they find out? Inefficient financial flows, for example in health policy, reduce what I believe has already indicated two weeks ago. Furthermore, the EU Commission notes through the pension system that the reforms are not sufficient. On the other hand, we have problems that will arise in the future. A problem is – I can only stress that over and over again – for the older generation of the care sector. We have a federal army which, compared to other European countries, cannot even guarantee national defence. The government – I was in front of Parliament yesterday at this demonstration – offers, for example, a 300-year tradition such as military music. A cultural property is lost irrevocably. On the other hand, however, there still seems to be enough money to spend, for example, over 50 000 euros on gender - related traffic lights. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Yesterday I was able to say with satisfaction that many members of the ÖVP have attended the concert before Parliament and, in part, have even participated. Today, I am giving you the opportunity to express this demonstrated solidarity by making the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Now you can demonstrate your solidarity, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A consequence of these negotiations next year, Mr. Federal Minister, must be that we will abolish this sub-government called the “Chairman Conference”! It can't be that the cock is always weaving with the dog. We need real federalism with expenditure and revenue responsibility in one hand, including limited fiscal sovereignty. We also need direct democracy so that the people and taxpayers can make the necessary corrections. Austria remains unreformable if nothing happens, as long as this red and black government remains in power.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e10892	The application is sufficiently supported, properly submitted and is therefore under negotiation. I inform you that a request according to § 66 para. 4 first sentence The Rules of Procedure of the Court of First Instance of the European Communities shall be governed by the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Court of First Instance of the European The motion for a resolution reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e10953	Mrs Tamandl has the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e10972	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Finance! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we decide on the financial framework for the years 2016 to 2019. It is, of course, a continuation of the existing financial framework. We have, of course, also introduced a few offensive measures in this financial framework. I can also say, contrary to the speakers who are still coming after me: We do not cut expenditure, but we just dampen it. We do not raise them in the next few years, because – and that is the only way I can give Mr Podgoricaschek, my previous speaker, a right - we have a problem with expenditure and not a problem with revenue. We also see this in the preliminary Federal Accounts 2014 where we have already achieved a structural zero deficit for 2014, although in reality we do not want to achieve this until 2016. But it is of course a high effort, in addition to the financial framework and a €5.2 billion relief for all taxpayers from 1. In January 2016, the Ministries will be subject to a ceiling on expenditure. I also know what will come from individual Members: Of course, the individual departments are responsible for the co-life fulfilment of these individual spending limits. The Minister of Finance has now only agreed on the ceiling with the resorts, and the resorts must look for themselves where they can make savings and achieve efficiency. To the EU Commission and to the recommendations: I also decided to report a little about it. First of all: The EU Commission wants reforms from us. That is, the tax reform can only be the first step. We need accompanying reforms in order to reduce expenditure in individual areas or to achieve a more efficient and effective use of resources. This will be the case in the administration, of course also in the division of competence between the federal government and countries. I think these reforms are very well removed from the Minister for Finance, who is already pushing for a common, harmonised budgetary law in the financial compensatory negotiations with the countries, namely benchmarks, in order to obtain comparability, for example, with regard to debt. But there, too, the mayor and head of state of Vienna will not be able to steal himself out of responsibility! He can't choose to take out of the budget what close-to-state establishments he wants from the debt calculation. It won't be like that. That is where we shall look at him, and I hope the Minister of Finance will do the same. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wenninger.]] There is no “desirable thing,” but there is an internal Austrian commitment, like the national leaders and the countries have to budget in order to make their debts comparable accordingly. - That's one. The second is reforms which, of course, must also come in the area of pensions; that is not at all a question. The actual retirement age is far from the legal one; we do not need to talk about that! We need to have this good and effective pension system in ten, twenty, thirty or forty years for the future and for the youth, so that the boys can also receive a pension from which they can dispute their livelihood and their standard of living. These are essential points, but – and this has been done by Mr Podgorschek – the EU Commission has also said that the counter-financing measures for tax reform are part of the 2014 suggestions. These are the fight against tax evasion, the increase or adjustment of the reduced turnover tax from 10 per cent to 13 per cent in individual areas, but of course also the increase in capital income tax from 25 per cent to 27.5 per cent. This means, of course, that we are interested in accepting suggestions from the European Union, because we want to get back to the top. We do not want to stay on the critical track – as our Federal Partyman and Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner said a few days ago – but we want to get back on track, and we do not want to stand back. Austria has gone much better a few years ago, including what has affected economic development. Finally, I would like to thank the Minister for Finance and his officials very much, as well as for the budget service, especially Dr Berger, who always provides Members with good expertise, which is very valuable for the work in the Committee on Budgets. I would also like to thank the experts who took us on 7th. May be available in the hearing; this is a very valuable thing. Although the opinions of the experts sometimes differ, we are all basically in agreement that we must continue to pursue the consistent budget implementation so that we can regain scope for expenditure that we need for education, for youth, for science and research, so that we can make progress in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e11034	Mrs Klubobfrau Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e11052	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Finanzminister, at the beginning I wanted to confront you again with the fact that there is a very critical opinion from Parliament's budget service on the financial framework presented. I'm sure that's known to you. The budget service sees these plans very critically and also presents the risks in great detail. The reason for these risks, which is obvious, is the planned tax reform and the lack of counter-financing. Both the planned additional revenue and the hoped-for savings, the experts in the parliamentary budget service do not see any significant risks. You have implemented a collective reform in the order of €5 billion – tariff relief is urgently necessary to clamp – but you have not made the effort to actually counter-finance this in a serious way. This lack of counter-financing now leads to further reductions in certain very relevant areas, although offensive measures would be more than urgent. We believe that the Austrian Parliament, which ultimately decides on this financial framework, cannot accept it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This concerns very relevant areas. First of all, I call environmental protection/climate protection. Previously, Mr Tamandl said that it is being dampened; that is definitely not true in this area. While climate protection is being implemented as a central concern in the Strategy Report, we have a partly drastic reduction in absolute expenditure from over €50 million to 2019 – and this, although we know that investment in the field of climate protection, especially green jobs, has a very positive effect on the Austrian economy. The second area is education policy. From our point of view, there is complete transparency as to how, after the existing hole of €350 million, which the Minister of Education has already spoken about, the year 2015 will continue to shape itself. The financial framework lacks any indication as to how these missing amounts are to be offset in any way. The third example, which I would like to address in great detail, is the question of how we deal with international commitments, how we deal with development cooperation in the face of the tragedy we face day by day. If you do not already have access to the financial framework, I would like to appeal to the SPÖ and ÖVP Members today in particular to reopen this chapter and indeed to take on responsibility in this chapter, which you have addressed in many of the speeches you have made in recent days with great concern. Today there are representatives of global responsibility; I am delighted about it. I'm sure you've got all the letters. I would like to warmly welcome you and thank you, on behalf of my group, for the work you and the 400 000 people you represent in your organizations – People's Aid, Red Cross, Caritas, Fair Trade, Light for the World. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] – I am sorry that so few Members here are also worthy of applause; but good. I think we have to look very closely. On the one hand, one cannot say again and again that one has to help people on the ground, then, on the other hand, shut down the borders, close the borders, partly deal with military intervention against refugee boats – which is now being discussed – and on the other hand, in this really relevant area, where life-retards are concerned, about refugee aid on the ground, about emergency aid abroad, the responsibility does not take place. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Right!]] [[Abg. Pirklhuber: As in the past!]] In recent years, we have experienced cuts in this field, at 2010 level. In the years 2011 to 2015 cumulated around €60 million were available less! What you can do with this money: With €60 million, these local organizations can provide 100 000 Syrian refugees for five years. With €60 million, you can free 120 000 families from hunger in the long term. With €60 million you can provide access to clean drinking water for about 6 million people. Now we have heard promises from the President of the Federal Republic who has said that we must keep our promises. We have heard from the Foreign Minister that he will bring the issue of increasing disaster aid abroad to the Council of Ministers. Unfortunately, we now have a financial framework, which even provides for a deviation from the financial framework of the previous year, which is not going up, but down! This allows only one conclusion, namely that there will be no level plan to increase humanitarian aid abroad in this financial framework by 2019. I believe that we should not accept this. The budget, the financial framework, is still the decision of Parliament. I really appeal to you today: Let's open this chapter again! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What the Caritas would do with 1 million €: The global hunger has found a new dramatic scene, which is ultimately these crisis regions, the bloody civil war regions especially around Syria, where 10 million to 11 million people are fleeing. The weakest stay on the spot, half of the refugees are children. At € 1 million, Caritas wants to give these children a school jause at least once a day, so that they can be strengthened so that they can come to strength at all. I honestly wonder if we cannot picture this in this financial framework. It is about increasing disaster aid abroad from € 5 million to € 20 million! This is really not the world; every trip to Burgenland costs more. I have now seen you all at so many events and heard where you have also expressed this concern that you do not want to accept it anymore. But now you decide on this financial framework – and I hope you do not do it – in which exactly this responsibility is not shown. Mr Finanzminister, I know that there are, of course, many desires for you from a wide variety of departments. We heard about military music earlier; that was the main concern of the liberals. There are also offensive measures in this financial framework. There are offensive measures in the field of internal security, i.e. the security package for the Minister of the Interior, also for national defence, also a certain part for labour market measures, for older workers, but let us add this list of offensive measures to development cooperation and humanitarian aid abroad; it is really possible! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We will also integrate this stage plan into the budget in autumn! A major UN summit will be held this year in front of the international public and the new development cooperation objectives will be defined. I do not want us as Austria to find ourselves there together with Greece; Greece is even worse, but otherwise every single European country is better than Austria in this area! I'm enjoying it! I do not want Austria to go there de facto empty-handed – and this against the background of the humanitarian disasters that are currently taking place around Europe. We ask you, I'll appeal to you: Please accept this amendment! We have tried to work out this stage plan by 2019. The increase from € 5 million to € 20 million is included. I think there is really no human argument against this proposal. We also want this proposal to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e11140	Mr Krainer came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e11159	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Dear friends of wind music! One might think that if you discuss a federal financial framework, and the biggest criticism at least on the part of an opposition party is the teaching or how many bubble music chapels there are within the framework of the German army that Austria really has no problems at all. An observer from outside would think: In Austria everything must be best if that is the biggest problem we have. I believe that the FPÖ here, at least in the core, is that budgetary policy cannot have been so unsuccessful in recent years. In fact, when we look at what has been said from abroad about Austrian budget policy since 2008, when Werner Faymann took over the Chancellorship at the beginning of the economic crisis, we have not only been exemplary and exemplary, but also that the European Union has modelled these three pillars of budgetary policy, which have been in Austria since 2008, I believe that the success has also been a model for other countries. Name: First, save where it makes sense; second, invest in important areas, invest in future investments; and thirdly, change the tax structure. That is, less taxes on labour – and more or higher tax contributions from capital and assets. [[Abg. Kogler: From the proceeds!]] These are the three steps that have taken place in recent years and which will also be taken with this federal financial framework in the coming years. Save where it makes sense: yes! Investing in future areas, education, care, research, development et cetera, is also clearly illustrated here in the federal financial framework. The next step is to further reduce taxes and taxes on labour by means of the tax reform and to demand higher contributions from capital and assets. These key issues are contained in this federal financial framework, which is why we continue to support this successful policy from social democracy. There are already a few things that we will look at in the autumn – because this is now, I say, a framework – as it then looks quite specific to the budget. One has mentioned Mr Glavischnig. [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: A deviation from the old financial framework down!]] Two years ago, I think, we decided unanimously here in the House or at least 75 percent or 80 percent: Yes, we do not need cuts in the area of development cooperation, but we need an extension of these funds. We'll see that in the autumn. That is what we have always said in the debate, because we are also taking a brief look at the Minister responsible, who said himself, that he will no longer cut it down, but will expand it. [[Abg. Windbüchler-Sushill: You promised!]] [[Further calls to the Greens.]] We'll see that there. Secondly, climate policy has also been properly addressed. We expressly have, I believe, a meeting of budget speakers tomorrow afternoon to see whether the resources for climate policy are sufficient or not. This is also a proposal from the Greens. We discussed this in the last financial committee, wherever we said we were looking at it. The third thing is, of course, that we look at whether this structural support of the education area is gone or not. These three things are a nail sample, and we have to look at them in the autumn. But I wanted to repeat a few things here from the discussion in the budget hearing. One important point is the discussion of pensions. There has been said by an expert – I think it was the expert of the ÖVP – and in itself we need a pension system that is almost 100% self-financing, without tax contributions. This is in principle contrary to what we have as ASVG, BSVG or GSVG. Our pension system builds on the fact that about a third is paid out of tax resources and two thirds by contributions. This is the basic column of our pension system. The fact that one third of these things are simply cut off is not possible in many areas. I think my colleague is here. Auer will speak after me, and he will say perfectly right: This will not be the case in the BSVG with the farmers, only for demographic reasons. There is a public share of 80 percent, i.e. 80 percent need to be subsidized. This is not the case, however, because farmers are lazy or want to do nothing, but because in this group it shows the demographic that there are simply much more farmers in pension than still active today. Of course, you always have to turn at the wheel and see if the contribution of those who are now active is high enough or if you have to change something. But in essence, I would like to remove the public subsidies or the public contribution or the tax contribution, I think I am right in the example of the farmers, because it is obvious there, completely wrong. The same applies, of course, to self-employed people and to workers and employees. SPÖ has always advocated that one of the key tasks of the state is pensions, education and health. Surely we don't get rid of this by any fashion or new fashions, that they say: The pension system, health or education system is privatized. No, these are key tasks of the state; we stand for that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For me, an important part of the whole debate was that we believe in many parts that the concept of structural deficit is good in theory, but the practical implementation is very bad because the economic thoughts and models behind it simply lead to distorted results. This is also seen in the lack of economic policy in those countries that adhere to these economic models and follow them, that this means saving more deeply into a crisis – and not investing in a crisis. I think that's important. I believe that deficit and debt figures are important, but they are not the final conclusion of wisdom. What we see is that we have a major problem throughout the European Union, as far as unemployment is concerned, and that the focus is on keeping in mind debt, keeping in mind deficits, but we must have at least the same importance as unemployment and the labour market, that we should all jointly condemn this missing European economic policy and see that it is also a trend at European level that the fight against unemployment and the promotion of more work and more jobs are the first priority, including in the European Union. A contribution we could make at national level would, for example, also be the sixth week of vacation for all, not only for a small part that is privileged. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e11242	Mrs Nachbaur. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e11260	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! Dear taxpayers! The financial framework clearly shows: Austria has no room at all. Even the smallest future-oriented design is made impossible by the necessary grants into the pension system, into the health system, into the social system. A few weeks ago, the “NZZ” entitled: “The welfare state eats the future of its children”. And that's how it is. We have a structural deficit of around 0.5 percent of GDP. But no matter if you call it structural deficit – because one-off payments have to be repaid at last – whether you call it nominal deficit, primary deficit, Maastricht deficit, no matter how verbally beautiful it is: The fact is, there is again more money spent than taken. The fact that we are now 5th of the least unemployed in the EU will also be of little interest to half a million unemployed in Austria. The long-term reform issues remain unsolved. The largest increase in all expenditure posts takes place at pensions, with officials at 13.5 percent, at ASVG-pensions by 25 percent. The gap in the pension system is increasing, and even today taxpayers have to pay €20 billion, in addition to the taxes paid by workers anyway. In fact, the grant would have to be null, because if you put it up properly, everything went out. That is why we need a fair pension account, in which every citizen can decide on his own responsibility when he wants to afford it and can retire. Growing older, but getting shorter and shorter, that doesn't work. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The health system with its many cash registers also becomes more expensive by 17 percent. There is no working interplay of interfaces, there is still no Primary Health Care Center, although they have proved to be functional elsewhere. At the same time, the rural area is starved rather than being strengthened. The huge job of work and social affairs is almost 20 per cent expensive, in particular by the high and still rising unemployment and the inefficient redistributor state. Social expenditure has grown twice as fast as the economy in recent years. If you were to make a good policy, it should actually be the other way round. But it will continue to be redistributed, and unfortunately I do not see any economic-invigorating measures, on the contrary. The so-called tax reform contains enormous additional burdens for entrepreneurs and for top managers. It is based on a surveillance state rather than on people who are willing to take entrepreneurship risks in that country. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Instead of finally saving a euro in the inflated state apparatus, the fight against fraud is expected. Ladies and gentlemen, this policy is simply unbelievable, and the tax optimism has long been exceeded! If you would permanently reduce the government rate, you could not only boost the economy, but it would also automatically increase the tax morale. It would be nice if one finally started the long-standing reforms, rather than excavating socialist ideas from the moth box. This applies both to the SPÖ and to the ÖVP, which is everywhere with it. However, I am pleased that you, Minister of Finance Schelling, repeatedly made the right statement at the award ceremony yesterday that Austria has an expenditure problem and no income problem and that Austria has gone from the overcrowding trail. Mr Schelling, you have our support if you want to counter it. But you don't have it easy, because in the SPÖ, at the coalition partner, you really believe that with more debt you can create more prosperity, that you can create more prosperity with less work – keyword reduction of working time – or that you become more competitive internationally with a sixth week of vacation. And now the overtime euro. Since the additional wage costs in Austria are already a location killer, Minister Hundstorfer – he is not present now – I offer you my greetings: The unemployed will then remember you, but not as you have imagined. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wenninger.]] However, I noticed something in the budget. In 2019, interest payments are expected to fall by €3 billion, but not because the debt is finally reduced, no, rather because of the ECB's zero interest rate policy, which, of course, is at the expense of the savers, at the expense of the life insurance companies, at the expense of the service providers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rossmann.]] There is a huge redistribution in favour of the debtors, in favour of the politicians who so gladly spend the money of the other people, and in favor of the speculators. Ladies and gentlemen from the SPÖ, debt brings us to the dependent financial markets that you are always so teasing. That's exactly the sharks you're warning about. You're working this right in your hands.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e11358	Mr Auer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e11377	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If one could be more often involved in budget debates, federal financial framework or tax reform debates if one... [[Abg. Moser: Then you know that they never...!]] – No, no, you experience something new again and again, colleague Moser. Only one always remains the same, one is always the same: The government sees it more positively, and the opposition is nearing the ruin. But the fact is that if you look through the results of the budget, the estimates of the past few years, then you see one thing. And it would be remarkable if one made the effort, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, to read through all this, what You yourself have claimed from this speaker's desk: Everything is nothing, macularity, the digits are not right, it would be far worse, it would be a disaster. – It is only interesting that the results of recent years were clearly better than they were budgeted. It could be admitted that the budget was very careful, very objective and cautious. You know, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition to be Grand Master of the sharp points is a little bit. [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: What do you mean now?]] Except for loud sounds, nothing to hear when you listen to your song: Everything's nothing, we're bad! These contributions, I say, are not in accordance with the truth. One might even think that they are unresponsible, because fact is, economics is essentially also a matter of mood, at least 50 percent. And if we all regret that it is so bad, then how is an entrepreneur supposed to do something, then who should have confidence in the future? – We should also spread a little more optimism. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] That, ladies and gentlemen, is also a little too little for an opposition. Yes, there are many points that one can see quite critically, undisputed, no question at all. But it's not all as bad as many times it's done. Mr. Podgorschek, dear Elmar, you know I very much appreciate one of your sentences: As long as this government was red and black at work, Austria would not be reformable. – I remember there was once a red-blue government, then there was a black-blue government. Why, Mr Elmar, has there not been a change in federalism at this time? – Maybe because at the time there was a blue country captain who left us a disaster like that. You should not forget that either, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Podgorschek.]] – If you think you should be in the structure, in which responsibility one or the other improves, I am in it. The financial compensation has been addressed, which is to be negotiated in the future. I also wonder why there is no co-financing of the municipalities in one federal state to the hospital service, to the departure cover, in the other federal country. I also wonder if I have to apply as mayor – and that was me for 32 years – so to speak, because I need five street lanterns, and then the competent Council of State tells me: I am glad to tell you that in yesterday's session and so on...! Then 80 percent are required, and then you need the proof, the confirmation of the order and so on and so on. You could save a lot of money. Perhaps it would also be possible to forward the federal financial allocations for the municipalities directly to the municipalities without detour via the countries. Perhaps a clear structure would also be imaginable. Although we pay for the hospital departure cover, we have zero, absolutely zero as a municipality. At the kindergarten you can sometimes talk a little bit. Fees shall be prescribed. But if you don't keep it, then there's no assignment and so on. There's a lot of things that can be changed. Perhaps in the future, this financial compensation will succeed in making one or another. In one point I am right, Mr Podgorschek: It would be interesting to have a database of transparency in all areas and not just in agriculture. We'll get her back in agriculture from June. You've been there quickly, and you were quick to see that it's back again. I'd only be interested in how it looks everywhere, without being jealous. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: I'm with you!]] [[Abg. Schellhorn: Yes!]] Without provoking envy, but perhaps to compare a little, who are the slaucoma of the Republic, who are the sub-skaisers, who know any way anywhere – from the community to the district, to the federal state, to the federal government and so on. That would be very interesting. The fact is – not because I'm optimistic, but because I'm a realist – that's what I'm saying in recent years: The budget figures and the federal financial framework will be better than claimed by the opposition. This has proved to be the case in recent years.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e11472	Mr Schellhorn. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e11491	Mr President. Estimated Minister! I refer to the speeches by Mr Tamandl and Mr Auer before I come to my actual remarks. Mr Tamandel said – and she is right there: Austria has already done better. Yeah, you're perfectly right. Mr Auer said that such a pessimism prevails among the companies. – Yes, but both of you are guilty that Austria has already gone better and now worse. They have been responsible for financial and economic policy in Austria since 2000. They are the ones who, with this tax package, have spread a pessimistic mood among the companies – and nobody else. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] The Minister of Finance is right when he says that we have a problem with expenditure and not a problem with revenue. - Yes, we all know that. We all know, however, that the Minister of Finance has once said that there are no new taxes with him. We know that too. Now I'm wondering, What do we have to keep from these words? The figures say quite clearly and clearly that expenditure has increased by 61.9% since 2000, while the general price level has only increased by 32 percent. From this figure, we also know that the money is wasted in that case. When Mr Krainer says that unemployment has to be combated – yes, we know; but certainly not with a sixth week of vacation and with a 30-hour week at full wage compensation. It can't work. That also means that you have an entrepreneurial knowledge of how to run a bird house, but not a company. This cannot work, and I would urge you to take such a course. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Reciprocating.]] Let us also consider your anthems that, so to speak, a semi-structural zero deficit has been combined: But then you also have the courage and the honesty to admit that this is only because we have to pay so low interest rates, because we save a lot on this path and because we do not have such a high expenditure burden and interest relief. In this respect, we should consider one thing clearly, Mr Krainer: The only way to create jobs is to reduce additional labour costs. And that doesn't work – again! – with a 30-hour week and not with a sixth holiday week. [[In the case of NEOS, representatives of the ÖVP and of the Agg. Podgorschek.]] I fully agree with my colleague, Mr Glavischnig, when she mentions the criticism of the budget service. I am also quite right in considering this whole issue with Mr Podgorschek. In this clarity, both have also demonstrated one thing: ÖVP and SPÖ are led by the national leaders at the Nosenring. That's it – and nothing else. Consider it a real disgrace that the limits of liability are not respected, that the liability is above the double when the limits are set! Consider it a shame that the municipalities and the countries are dispensing one fifth of their spending and parking in distributed units! Take it as a shame that you do not show us clarity and courage, even since in so far as it is not to tarry and deceive, and consider it as the most urgent task of spending, once the municipalities and the countries in their debt policy to be handled! Consider it a clear task not to be led through the rounds at the nose ring, but to take the other one at the nose ring! Anyone who does not really want and can not save in this respect – and this is what the citizens notice – remains only one thing, namely to force the citizens to do just that by means of tax measures. That's the shame you commit with this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e11568	Mr Schelling spoke on a point of view. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e11586	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Since we discussed the federal financial framework in the Committee on Budgets, which had hearings, first reading, I would just like to make a few comments. Of course it is true, Mrs Glawischnig, that this Parliament has to decide. This is Parliament. But you are the first to come and blame the Minister of Finance if he fails to comply with the budget in the financial statements. We also need to talk about responsibilities. That is why this Federal Government has presented a very balanced, balanced federal financial framework, which at the same time goes towards offensive measures to return to growth, and at the same time it does to achieve the objective of a structural zero deficit, which we have jointly adopted by Council of Ministers, also vis-à-vis the Commission. It would be better for me too, the economy was better. It would also be better if there were no unemployed. It would also be better if we could invest more in the offensive funds. But from where? – That is why this federal financial framework has been balanced in order to go both strategies – and this is a success model over many years – to dampen costs where it is possible, but at the same time to implement measures for an offensive. The second point that is important to me – and I ask you to keep this in mind again and again – is that: The source of all the money is the citizens! And if we have a responsibility, it's to be careful about this money. I know that a lot of wishes are in store for me. I know that many wishes are also well justified. But we also have to stretch to the ceiling, not finally through even higher loads than they already exist, to close these gaps again. The issue of new taxes has been addressed. I would point out, Mr Schellhorn, that there are shifts within the tax system, but no new taxes. That's why I'm staying with you. We have changes in the system in both directions. We have changes in the tariff system, where we go down from 36.5% to 25 percent. We have slight changes in the VAT system. – These are changes in the system, but no new taxes. There were also, and about it has been discussed for almost a year. With a reason for the bad mood, the uncertainty about additional new loads is indeed. I would like to point out that we have decided on a long-term administrative cost brake. This not only counts for this year, but, starting from 2016, in the administrative field, the regional authorities of the Federal Republic of Germany, countries and municipalities are expected to take a cost brake, which reduces the forecast increase in personnel and property costs from 2.7 percent to 1.7 percent. If you have read the Federal Financial Framework carefully: There is also a establishment plan at the level of the federal government, which achieves this very objective accordingly. Well, you're perfectly right: The additional wage costs must be reduced. I also announced this – at the time when we can afford it. I am also in favour, but I believe that we will need a great reduction in the cost of wages. I don't think we're going to reduce the additional wage costs by € 85 million, which then pump somewhere, possibly burden the carrier, but nowhere. If so, then this has to be a big step, and we should work on it by addressing further reforms. And I do everyone who always criticizes: What is the next step?, attention: Read the protocol of the government clause in Krems, where a date has been set for each measure – labour market, promotions, education, pensions – until when this government has to deliver it. And I think this is the right thing to do, because it was also criticised in the tax reform that we will never bring this together, and not at all at the time, and everyone has already speculated about when new elections will occur. - We've delivered it. As far as criticism is concerned, I can understand it quite clearly, and I am also in favour of it if the budget service thinks there are risks. Of course, there are risks, with a medium-term financial planning over four years, no one will be able to predict how the economic situation will develop in 2019, so careful action has to be taken, and the risk will always remain. I believe, however, that if the budget service and the European Commission see those measures that we have put into consideration in the framework of tax reform and counter-financing, then the credibility of our counter-financing will be dramatically improved. We have expected this to be serious, and I will give you an example: I do not assume that any Member or a Member of Parliament in this House is of the opinion that we should tolerate tax fraud, tax evasion and social fraud in the future; I do not expect it. But if one assumes that the unanimous view is that we should fight this, then we also need the necessary instruments to do so. And because you always say: That's all too high!, then you can think of a number very carefully once. In total, there is money of just over €500 billion, and of the whole area, € 700 million is expected to come from, which was probably not legally charged at the time. € 700 million. With regard to registers, we have set up measures to look at models: What did that bring to the taxis in Germany, what did that bring to Quebec? We have gone the way that we have tried to put counter-financing at a lower limit – and not at the upper limit. When we deal with things, we also need to create the instruments to do so. Then we can discuss the instruments in a variety of ways, but one must be clear: That we say – and today the subject was already Greece – at the end of the day, everyone can do and leave what he wants, that would not be the way that this House supports. That is why we will prove to the EU Commission – and we have always done so – that our calculations are serious. I should also like to point out: The Commission is not always right, either, because when we received the big letters in 2014 and 2015, the Commission did not expect a zero deficit to be achieved either. And quite honestly... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rossmann]] – Mr Rossmann, you will be able to speak in a moment, and we will be able to hold the dialogue together again. I would like to take it with you, because I like this Professorial access from you because it is a pragmatic access, and it is probably more right in the end. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If we say that we also want to do something in the field of offensive measures and combat unemployment: Especially for older workers, huge budget resources have been added, and I think this is the right thing to do. I also think it is right that we should implement it accordingly. As regards the financial compensation: I'm glad we get it again and again. He has started, I have said what is the cornerstones from my point of view, and if someone thinks that we are going to be led around here by the countries at the Nosenring – Mr Schellhorn said – then I would like to take advantage of the fact that I have quite the opposite feeling when I hear the statements of the countries where a country captain says: The Minister of Finance does not care what I do with my money, and the next one says: What, liability, that's none of our business! And that's where I stand and say no, that's country. That is why I am also in favour of developing this financial compensation in the direction we have already discussed here, and I am looking for all the political groups – for most of them are members of the national governments – that you, too, convince your representatives in the national governments that we need this federalism and financial compensation reform. [[Abg. Podgorschek: I am working!]] Mr Podgorschek has it easy, he has nothing to do by October, because you have elections. [[Abg. Podgorschek: Yes, it is!]] – Yes, he says it is. Thank God finally admits to one that is. But this must be a way that we are taking together, and we must also call for the responsibility of those who sit in the national governments. I therefore believe that it is important to set the ceilings with this Federal Financial Framework Act in such a way that the ministries can decide on their responsibilities as they do. Of course, the crucial phase is at the beginning of October when we will present the budget proposal for 2016. That is the critical point, because now we have defined where the ceilings are; then a specific budget has to be presented. But I would like to conclude by saying: No one will be helped if we do not create the structural zero deficit in a sustainable way and are threatened by the European Commission's horrendous criminal payments, because this will reduce any additional investment in the future, and I do not want to answer that. That is why I would like to ask you to agree to this federal financial framework.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e11677	I call Mr Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e11696	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and in front of the TV! Budget is the naked skeleton of politics, as Goldscheid said in 1908, the corset of every amazing ideology. What are we doing? . We have a solid budgetary policy since SPÖ entered the government in early 2007. [[Ironic cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the FPÖ.]] – Well, the legacy of the FPÖ measures are those things we have at the Hypo Alpe-Adria; we have at least completed the chapter. We have a sound budgetary policy, which has shown every time in recent years that the budgets have been set up with the necessary caution that it has also held 2014 in spite of all the unknowings that have said: Now the economy is bad and unemployment is rising, it will never last! - It's been held. We are now continuing this path of a solid budgetary policy with the budget framework until 2019. But what we do not do is what is happening in many other European countries, where social democracy is not crucial: Reductions in pensions, reductions in social benefits et cetera. On the contrary: We look at where it is possible to save decent and neatly with reforms, where we have a weakness in domestic demand, where many lack the money in the wallet to invest in their own needs, which at the same time helps the economy. And we have what the opposition took delight in half a year ago: 5 billion € Redemption is co-financed in this budget framework at the same time. And this has been done without bloodshed on the other side. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Windbüchler-Sushill and Mr Podgorschek.]] This is a form of decent budgetary policy and, in this sense, also of changing finance ministers at the government partner – and, as I believe, a reasonable path. There's nothing inside where the opposition has to rage; I'm glad when her main problem is the military music chapel. Do felix Austria, if you really don't have any other problems! We are trying in all areas, some things are still unfinished, some of them we are fix here, which is the financing of the renovation of the Parliament building, which was not yet in the government template. In the area of development cooperation, the Federal Government is endeavouring to improve through a stage plan. I hope that the Minister responsible will be able to make a brief statement that we will have a framework here in the autumn of 2016 in the form of detailed budgets, but that is all peanuts compared to the overall framework. A solid financial framework by 2019 supports the economy. It helps to dampen the rise in unemployment rates. He brings purchasing power and he brings a discharge of €5 million for millions of Austrians, which no one believed. I think this is something that you can agree with easily and with good conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e11754	Mr MMag came to speak. DDr. Fuchs. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e11772	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Finance! High house! Values Advisors! A key element of the draft medium-term budget planning 2016 to 2019 is the tariff reform. Counter-financing, in particular with regard to the anti-fraud measures, is still on waved legs, and the budget service has also noted this in its analysis of the Federal Financial Framework 2016 to 2019. In fact, this Federal Government wanted to adopt a tax reform as soon as possible. In abolishing banking secrecy and increasing capital income tax to 27.5 percent, the Federal Government responded quickly. Unfortunately, the actual reform of the collective bargaining system has only been reviewed today. The short assessment period will not really have a positive impact on the quality of legislation. With the de facto abolition of banking secrecy, the Federal Government is blatantly breaking its repeated guarantee that the banking secret will not affect and protect domestics. This guarantee has also been given by the Federal Government on the occasion of EU accession – and will break it. The abolition of banking secrecy is an attack by the Federal Government on the financial privacy of the Austrians. According to § 38 para. 2 point 11 of the draft Banking Act does not exist if the tax authority has concerns about the correctness of the tax declaration. According to Section 4(3) of the draft Accounting Act, information from the Accounting Register must be provided to the tax authorities of the Federal Government and the Federal Financial Court if it is appropriate and appropriate in the interest of the tax collection. These changes go too far and open the arbitrary door and gate. Effective legal protection against arbitrary access by the tax authorities is no longer provided. Even in Germany, surveys may only be made for tax purposes if there is a reason to believe that the taxable person has provided incorrect or incomplete information. In the future, however, it will be possible in Austria to ask questions about the desire and mood of the auditors. [[Abg. Schimanek: Uiuiui!]] If there were still around 10,000 surveys by financial authorities and around 62 000 by other authorities in Germany in 2005, it was already around 70 000 surveys by the financial authorities in 2014 and around 130 000 surveys by other authorities: a triple within ten years. At present, the tax authorities must present to an independent judge a reasonable suspicion of tax evasion in order to gain insight into bank accounts. Legal protection against arbitrary access by the tax authorities has thus been ensured until now. This legal protection must, in the opinion of the Freemans, continue to be given in the future. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The mass of Austrians is tax-honored. However, the Federal Government places the Austrians – whether entrepreneurs or individuals – under the general suspicion of tax evasion. The principle of confidence in the state's relationship with its citizens is thus replaced by the principle of distrust. The abolition of banking secrecy and the flat-rate suspicion by the Federal Government will affect the attitude of the population as a state and the tax morale of the population because the population feels suspicious. The Federal Government wants a glass and transparent taxpayer. The taxpayer also rightly expects transparency from the Federal Government and would like to see if the tax money is used in a meaningful way. Where is the promised transparency database for subsidies, subsidies and transfers? Why is there still no modern and uniform budgetary law of the local authorities?Use custom fonts; Key word: uniform accounting system. Why can the federal states still cover up liability? Why does the Ministry of Finance deliver blackened files to the Parliamentary Investigation Committee? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Schelling.]] Transparency is not a one-way road! Transparency must also apply to the Federal Government! By the way, I am surprised by the inconsistency of the Federal Government: Information from the account register should be permissible to the tax authorities, but not to the social authorities. Fraud is fraud – whether it is tax fraud or social fraud. Both of them must be rejected. In the fight against social fraud, however, the Federal Government does not seem to be really committed. A clear yes to the fight against fraud – whether tax or social – but a clear no to abolish banking secrecy! Finally, I can still quote Dr. Andreas Unterberger: The banking secret is a refuge of freedom and privacy vis-à-vis the state all-power. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] That's how we see the liberals. The banking secret for domestics is untouchable. [[Accompaniment with the FPÖ and the Abg. Reciprocating.]] But not only the banking secret is untouchable, but also the military national defense. Therefore, I would like to make the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e11868	The application is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. I can tell you that here, too, according to § 66 para. 4 1. The GOG-NR sentence is a request for a name-named vote. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e11936	Mr Haubner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e11965	Mr President. Dear and esteemed Mr. Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning, because Mr Schellhorn and Mr Matznetter addressed the first years of this millennium, I would like to correct the fact that the first years of this millennium were economically very successful years, in which Austria was all over the top line and in the European concert played a very crucial role that even “The Mirror” was entitled at that time: Austria – The better Germany. I would just like to remind you once again. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Höbart and Mr Steinbichler.]] The then Federal Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel had a clear plan and a clear strategy: Headquarters settlement, internationalization of the Austrian economy – and thus we were successful. This is just a reminder, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] This Federal Financial Framework Act continues the consolidation course that has been launched since 2011, and that is a good thing. If we look over the next three years, we will have to expect lower economic growth, higher unemployment and probably lower wage and salary trends. Of course, we'll feel that too. That is why the priorities of this Federal Financial Framework Act are so important by 2019. We clearly see that despite difficult conditions – and this can only be emphasized – the Federal Minister of Finance is pursuing a stability-oriented budget and economic policy, which should also maintain economic growth and employment at a high level. As we have heard today, we have always had better results in the past than we have budgeted. I think that is why it is also to be welcomed that the structural zero deficit will continue to be pursued, and that we will also see that we will keep it until 2019. As far as total debt is concerned, development is not so positive. This has several reasons, but the planning also provides that we will return below 80 percent by 2019. Both business and private, with no debt it sleeps better. It is our job to further reduce total debt, and we must also get the cost drivers under control. That is why I very much welcome the reform proposals made by the Minister of Finance in the field of pensions, the labour market and in other areas. Of course, we are also committed to pension insurance, education and health, but we also need to keep them running. That is why we need to redesign this issue over and over again, and we cannot simply spend money that we do not have. One thing I must say quite clearly to Mr Krainer: Jobs only create the entrepreneurs in this country – and nobody else! And if we are trying to reduce extra wage costs and if these are to come in the next few years, we need a proper reduction. We don't need an overtime euro in this sense, and we don't need a sixth holiday week either. In Austria, we entrepreneurs know what the workers need, namely a safe job. That's where we're sitting together in a boat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e12038	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e12057	Mr President. Minister! High house! If my previous speaker says that it is good that consolidation will continue on the occasion of higher expected unemployment and lower wages, then I have to say, you have to explain this to me first. Consolidation is not a self-evident purpose, but consolidation is the focus of the budget policy with this federal financial framework. This, of course, means that other important objectives are not prioritized, including, for example, the higher teaching of future areas, the higher teaching of the field of development cooperation, but also effective measures against unemployment. Unemployment is up by 150 000 compared with the previous years. We currently have unemployment rates of 400 000. This is a number of which I think it is untolerable, but it is directly related to how we align our budget policy. [[Abg. Pretty: Especially how we align our income policy!]] And if we listen, Mr. Collegue, what some of the experts – you weren’t there – have said in hearing the Federal Financial Framework, please listen to me now! – it has been clearly stated that this federal financial framework misses the objective of growth and employment. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Hübner]] Another expert said that employment should be put at the centre of budgetary policy in view of the high level of unemployment. – But this is clearly missing with this federal financial framework. On the contrary: We're going on a critical path in Europe. That's where Mrs Tamandl quoted you, Minister, you said that yesterday. Obviously you took that from my speech at the first reading, which I have already mentioned. If Austria is to be overcrowded, then there must be a change of course in budget policy! It's not this financial framework. At the time, you called what I said, Mr Minister, retro. Other experts who spoke to us in the hearing have developed a different view of things. Of course, skinny people are also the macroeconomic effects of the tax reform. It will spend €5 billion; the Economic Research Institute has calculated that only 8,400 jobs will be created and economic growth will grow by 0.4 percentage points by 2019. 5 billion € – and such small effects, you really have to ask yourself if the money in Austria is spent meaningfully, in the sense of taxpayers, and effectively, in the sense of prioritizing expenditure and combating unemployment. Nevertheless, in your strategy report, you write that the areas of education, science, infrastructure are important. They say there are important choices being made. Yes, there are offensive measures, but to describe some of these measures as "offensive measures", I think this is a bit strange; for example, the security package of the Federal Ministry of the Interior or the investment in the state defense or the additional funds for universities and colleges. If the wage increases and the maintenance of the company for the universities are already referred to as a 'opensive', then I no longer understand the term 'opensive means'; I am sorry, Minister! In addition, this is completely inadequate in terms of the fact that the target of 2% of GDP has been set in the field of science. In the face of a rich country like Austria, I find that development cooperation is obviously not provided for in this federal financial framework. On the contrary: Subdivision 12 of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs provides for reduced appropriations. If you look at how development aid has developed against the background of the target, 0.7 percent of GDP, in recent years, this has really been a scandal for a rich country like Austria, which has fallen from 0.52 percent in 2005 to 0.26 percent in 2014, half. This is embarrassing from the background of catastrophic things in developing countries and currently in the Mediterranean. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Vavrik.]] One last point: You keep saying that you want to make reforms, but, honestly, I miss reforms. The tax reform is a tax adjustment, okay, but where are the tax reforms? You have spoken in your word about additional pay reliefs. Yes, why did you not, as we have proposed, launch an ecologicalisation of the tax reform? You could have reduced the additional wage costs, even at a substantial level. But there you were deaf on this ear! In other areas, you say, you have done great things, for example in the new accounting system with the federal states. . I looked at this recently and found that many areas are in reality still open, namely that very core, which concerns the uniform rules of content. And this is to be regulated in an Article 15a agreement. And if I hear Article 15a agreement, I'll be hearing it, because then I'll see again that no uniform accounting system is created, but an accounting system is created where freshly every federal country will apply those valuation rules for, for example, the asset accounting that is currently on its agenda. In other areas, such as financial compensation, you try something. But here I would already believe that we in this country should not discuss behind closed doors, but that we need a public debate on the direction in which federalism should develop in Austria. Just to name keywords, such as an extension of tax sovereignty or a merger of revenue, expenditure, responsibility for tasks – these are overruns, I have known for at least 20 years – which alone is far too little. With regard to the risks posed by the budget service: These risks will not arise until 2019, no, the risk of sub-financing the tax adjustment is already presented in 2016. We'll see who's right. I have doubts that the tax fraud recovery will be implemented as quickly as you can imagine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e12135	Next speaker: Mrs Bayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e12154	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been said by speakers both of the government and of the opposition parties that this Federal Financial Framework Act also provides a number of offensive measures, such as the extension of childcare, care, measures for older workers, broadband development, scientific investment and much more. In my opinion, of course, it is a advertising drop that has failed to find additional resources, dedicated resources for increasing bilateral development cooperation. It was, and it will continue to be the responsibility of the Foreign Minister in the future to make financial payments to the Minister of Finance in negotiations for the fulfilment of our international obligations. I have been told – and the Minister of Finance can certainly confirm this – that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs actually receives €5 million a year more than the cost-damaging path would actually have planned – under the conditions and under the obligation that bilateral development cooperation will not be saved. I have been asked if I can agree to a federal financial framework law where the EZA is saved. From my point of view, under the premise that has been made out, EZA must not be saved. Nor do I hide that it would have been preferable for me to feed and decide on this political agreement in a resolution, but unfortunately that was not possible. It is very unfortunate that Mr Foreign Minister Kurz has seriously neglected his homework, which he should have done, for more than a year, without doing anything to actually implement what is foreseen in the government programme and what would really help us to do, for example, an overall strategy, such as the legal safeguarding of bilateral development resources or, for example, the level plan, which has only been foreseen for summer. If we had this already, if we already knew how the bilateral EZA would increase, then we would have had very good arguments now, why we could have changed the federal financial framework and could have changed it. But the Foreign Minister unfortunately did this. That's unfortunate. It is all the more regrettable that the situation with dead people in the Mediterranean had only to be heightened until he was obviously reminded of his duties as Minister for Development and now he is also fulfilling this mission and will work out this phase plan together with the Minister of Finance until summer. I hope that we will have the opportunity – apart from what the Federal Financial Framework Act provides – to provide for more funding in the 2016 budget in autumn. But a political decision here would have always been better than hoping for something that might come or not. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e12206	Next speaker: Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e12224	Mr President. Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear spectators on the gallery and in front of the televisions! In the present Federal Financial Framework Act 2016 to 2019, a lot has already been said, significantly speaking by the government and rightly criticised by the opposition. Mr Auer: This is typical of the way he does it at the farmer's meetings, that he turns himself up and says: All pallets, I've heard so many federal financial framework laws, always the same; there's a poor interpretation; it's always better expected; the results were always better! - Amazing! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Darabos.]] – I just wanted to bring the Taferl, Mr Darabos, because I wanted to respond to Mr Matznetter. [[The speaker presents a table with a source titled “The press, front page, 23.12.2014” on the speaker’s desk, on which three coloured beams – orange, blue and green – can be seen for the development of the purchasing power of workers, employees and officials.]] That's really great when a socialist makes himself there and says: All palettes! – Then I look at the front page of the "Press" of the 23rd century. December, Mr. colleague – the “Kronen Zeitung” brought it half a year later – about the loss of purchasing power of workers: minus 14 percent. The employees remained the same, but see – and therefore it would be good if Mr. Auer would talk more to colleague Neugebauer – with the officials the world is fine. I do not want to defame a professional group at all, but this is at the expense of the future, and this is at the expense of necessary measures, Mr Minister, which are not available. This refusal by the government of necessary structural reforms, this refusal of debureaucratisation paralyses this state, paralyses the preparation of the most necessary measures that we need for our children and for our anchors. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach]] We need a clear policy! I get very bad every time – let's wait a little until Mr. Obernosterer is done – when I look at the debt counter. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] When I look at the government debt counter, it reminds me of a gas station where the tank is full and I can't put the diesel pump on – that's painful. And the sovereign debtor runs and runs, and the government's representatives make themselves up and say: Heal the world! Don't be sorry, don't hurt anything, it hurts us! Only: The international assessment is not quite that healthy; we have to look at the ranking where Austria is currently located. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and FPÖ.]] That's the soup we've got to extinguish now. We're falling back all the time, the Germans are pulling us off, all right. We only need to give ourselves the small structural comparison Upper Austria – Bayern, then we know what is going on. In Austria, the hard-working, the skilled, the entrepreneurs, the workers, and now the people who, because they can no longer afford the family, are being blamed for overtime. He does not overtime because he is fat, but he does overtime so that he can get through so that he can feed his family and get his house so that he can pay fees and charges! And then he's the bad one too! It's just unbearable! [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and FPÖ.]] We need a business-friendly and labour-friendly environment, which must be designed. Mr Minister, I do not agree that you are trying to put honest bills on the table, and of course you cannot put everything on the head, but there is still a lot of need for reform to be implemented as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e12310	Next speaker: Mr Eßl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e12328	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Today we are adopting the Federal Financial Framework Act – this at a time when the economy is not really booming. This is a particular challenge, as on the other hand, the government budget needs sustainable renovation. Measures should be taken when the budget is seriously reorganised. First: Save where it is possible and useful. Secondly, To put expenditure where purchasing power and the economy are strengthened. Unfortunately, the former is necessary, as a rehabilitation of the budget over economic growth is only possible if this would be at least 3% over the next ten years. That is why the government is also implementing measures, such as a tax reform, which will relieve taxpayers. The medium-term budget for employment and employment, for example, provides for a broadband offensive – important for rural areas – to finance the rural development programme. With approximately €300 million federal funds, investments of almost €5 billion per year are triggered by farmers. This is because €1.2 billion comes from Brussels. There is also a security package and additional investment in the area of national defence. That's where I want to relate to the current situation: In 2016, € 53 million more were added to the Federal Financial Framework 2015 to 2018; € 37 million in 2017, € 38 million in 2018. I therefore also call for a well thought-out security policy in the sense of comprehensive national defence according to the will of the citizens of the country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This also includes compliance with agreements. I am very specific about the behaviour of the Minister of Defence Klug; I am speaking specifically to the Tamsweg barracks. The will of the citizens is that military use will continue to take place in the future. [[Abg. Podgorschek: Can you vote today!]] The will of the state of Salzburg is that military use will continue to take place in the future. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vavrik.]] And there is an agreement at government level, which states that, at least by 2016 including 2016, military use of these barracks will take place and until then a further use will be negotiated with the involvement of the country. But now the Minister of Defense has informed us that he wants to withdraw the ground defenses from Tamsweg in the next few weeks, move them to Carinthia and station them there and carry the barracks of another use. Although Klug Minister of Defense is not present today, I have a clear message to the Minister of Defence: I want agreements to be respected! Citizens have the right to comply with agreements. And we want the Tamsweg barracks to be added to military use in the future. The overall federal financial framework is good, we agree. Measures must follow in appropriate form.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e12423	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e12442	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! I should like to turn the attention back a little bit away from the individual barracks and focus on the federal financial framework. I would like to dedicate myself to the big broking pension area. In this regard, Mr Federal Minister, you have also made mediatically stated that there is a need for action. You and Foreign Minister In short, each side of the process of promoting reform proposals on the pension sector, nothing happens! – You said that there is a need for action. [[Federal Minister Schelling: I made no proposal at all, I just said...!]] In the current federal financial framework, the expenditure limits in the UG 22 will be increased by about 3 per cent each year. This means that in four years we will increase the grant from € 10.68 to € 13.32 billion, i.e. by a quarter. Last week, the EU Commission wrote in its country-specific recommendations for Austria: “The reforms that have been launched by Austria so far do not seem sufficient to ensure the long-term sustainability of the system.” This also shows that the statistical figures on the increased retirement age do not say anything at all. The Minister of Social Affairs is pleased with the finely colored figures, but he has so professionalized the beautiful coloring that all the reporting systems in the Ministry of Social Affairs have lost any power of expression. [[Abg. That's right! That's right!]] The Minister of Social Affairs is pleased with his figures, but you and the taxpayers are driving the tears when we look at the costs. Despite the beautiful figures, the retirement age is still 3.4 years below the EU average, and this, in turn, causes the EU Commission to write: ‘It remains unclear whether the positive budgetary impact expected by these measures actually occurs.’ If we filter out diplomatic courtesy, then the following statement remains: The EU Commission does not believe that the Federal Government is talking about what it is sending to Brussels. The EU Commission's country report – that is, not in the country-specific recommendations, but in the country-by-country report – states that the Commission even doubts the reliability of the ex-ante estimate of the Austrian government. It looks similar to the official pensions in the UG 23. Expenditure is also developing badly there; we will have an increase of 12 percent in four years. The Ministry of Finance rightly complains that it has no control in this area, because the law of the service is at the Federal Chancellery and because the individual departments have to make retirement payments without regard to their interests and they only have to make available the funds. – In this respect I give you absolutely right: That's what it's all about. However, if we combine these two spending blocks UG 22 and 23, i.e. social security pensions and civil servants' pensions, we will add a third of the expenditure budget, and these are the most growing elements of the budget. No wonder that, as Mr Rossmann criticised, nothing remains for future investment if you have to spend more and more on pensions. It will also be of no use if I hear words from you that I like to hear, but there must also be actions to follow. I hope that when we meet here in a year, you were as successful at the pensions as you are now taking the Federal State of Carinthia to the Kandare. That is what I wish you to do, and I really wish, because the policy of the standstill cannot continue. I would like to say one sentence on the UG 20 concerning the labour market: If the high rate of increase, rather than pension expenditure, were perhaps in terms of economic growth, then we would not have the problem in the labour market. But my previous speakers have already illustrated in a word why the economic policy of this Federal Government cannot be achieved. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e12512	Next speaker: Mr Wimmer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e12530	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Your colleague, Mr Eßl, of course you don't make it easy for us either: Not only is the competent minister, whom you would like to say, not there, but it is just being turned to the money tap for this ministry. Then put yourself here and say: We demand that the barracks be locked up again!, that's a bit of a threat. [[Call the SPÖ:Genau!]] Minister Klug has just put forward a proposal to accommodate the poor devils who do not find quarters here as refugees. Not only do I ask the Minister of Defense to do this if he has free capacities, but perhaps the Church can also think about it – and there are more opportunities to act on it – to partially open up the monasteries and to create space there, because I already lack a little in this discussion. [[towards ÖVP]] [[Congratulation of the Abg. Shopf.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] The tax reform has already been discussed in detail today. Ladies and gentlemen, I am of course pleased that yesterday, thanks also to Mr Finanzminister, the wage tax reform has been reviewed. Of course, we know from the discussion that the opposition has huge problems to go along with, but you may be able to push an inner shock. Ladies and gentlemen, this is really about a lot, and it is the first time in this Republic that it is worth almost €5 billion, which is set free and benefits workers. Perhaps, if it is so far, we can decide by a greater majority than it is now in the debate, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] One thing I am particularly pleased that over the last few days, it has succeeded in favour of 1.4 million employees. Indeed, those who deserve so little that they do not pay a wage tax will already have the opportunity to claim an increased negative tax. That's good! This is an amount of €50 million, which can already be released this year, and this is excellent. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to deal with the research chapter of the Ministry of Infrastructure. In 2016 to 2019, €430 million will be made available annually. A focus will be on Industry 4.0, which will, of course, raise many issues, many of which concern workers. I would like to point out: Industry 4.0 is not only coming, it is already taking place and is in full swing. We notice this wherever we are working, we notice it in production, and we also notice it on the labour market. It is important, in my view, for some things to be dealt with, so to speak, the workers must be taken on a journey. A major role will be played by training and new skills, and above all we also need solutions for those older workers who are no longer creating a changeover. Another very important issue will also be working time, because all the revolutions that took place on the labour market, and all the technical revolutions that we have ever experienced or can read in the history books, have brought with it one thing: The working time was not increased, but lowered. I can remind you briefly: Until 1914, ladies and gentlemen – let’s just call it the “phase 1.0” – one has worked 80 hours; Child labour was quite natural at the time. After 1918, when the electrification took place and flow-band work was created, 48 hours were worked, 45 hours in 1959 and in 1975 it was reduced to 40 hours. That means: If productivity increases, ladies and gentlemen, the existing work must be divided into more people. We will therefore not avoid dealing with it either. This will be a huge task to find intelligent solutions. For example, the leisure option is addressed here, on a voluntary basis. As far as the sixth week is concerned, it must be possible to have easier access than it is now, ladies and gentlemen. That is what we stand for, and we will fight for it. Mr. Haubner, you said: We're all sitting in a boat. That's true, you always have to be very careful about who's giving the hit and who's rowing. It is good to note that the Ministry of Infrastructure was founded by Minister Stöger, the Industry 4.0 platform, where the social partners – i.e. industrial associations, trade associations, employers' associations, the Chamber of Workers and the trade union – really sit at a table and “beaker” this very subject. In my opinion, it is extremely important to accompany this process. The conditions for this have been created, also with this Federal Financial Framework Act, ladies and gentlemen, because ultimately it is about securing our very successful industrial location Austria and the associated jobs.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e12612	I call Mr Themessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e12630	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! My previous speaker, the trade unionist Wimmer, has made good proposals on how to clean up the labour market and reduce the number of unemployed. I can only say so much to him: Your trade union colleague from Vorarlberg, social Democrat Norbert Loacker, spoke in writing about the proposals made by the Federal Minister Hundstorfer at the press hour on Sunday, where the penalty for overtime, reduction in working hours, the value-added tax and so on was the subject, the whole thing is a “snap idea”. To be read in the “Vorarlberger Nachrichten” of Monday this week. So much to your proposals, which are apparently seen by your own party colleagues and union members in Vorarlberg quite differently than by you. Obviously, these have a better and different access to the working world than you do. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr. Federal Minister Schelling, you are right in many things, and I also believe that this financial framework would look different if it were the only one that went according to your ideas. But what I don't quite understand – I want to deal specifically with this issue – is the issue of economics. You said you would like to see better economic growth, as likely everyone here in this House. - I'm right, I'm right. But you also said: But now it is as it is – and this statement by you surprises me, because you are the only member of the government who was also very successful in the private sector. They know that one can very well counter and help to change economic growth again by setting different frameworks. As far as economic growth is concerned, Austria has not been above the EU average for too long, but in the meantime Austria is below the last three of all EU Member States and is significantly below the EU average. All your proposals, which you send to the Commission, will be answered by the EU, across all the topics: That's a good idea, but you don't think the implementation is right. [[Interference of Federal Minister Schelling.]] I will come back to the issue of economics again. In this 2015 stability programme, the European Union calls on the Austrian state and the Federal Government to address the improvement and promotion of competition in the services sector. - We've heard that for years. Three or four years ago, we received a call from the EU that, for example, cross-border training be recognised within the EU Member States. But this is still not the case in Austria. Therefore, here again my request to Mr Haubner and also to Mr Matznetter from the Chamber of Commerce – we have been calling for this for years – is that we should finally unravel the trade regulations and think them out in principle. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] For five years the Minister of Economic Affairs has promised me that this is really happening. The EU has been inviting us to do so for years. Otherwise, you are the first in the boat in every EU request and have your hand in the height when it comes to implementing something. But on this issue of which the economy is heavily affected, where a change might result in economic growth moving faster, that the SPÖ or whoever... [[Abg. Haubner: Which area...?]] – You know the areas very well: Footcare, physiotherapists, and, and, where the training from the EU foreign country in Austria is still not recognised, because the trade regulation speaks against it. These are all anti-lock shoes, but you're not ready to take. [[Call the FPÖ:Genau!]] With the demands of social democracy for massive increases in staff in kindergartens, in childcare, in the nursing sector and so on, to combat unemployment while reducing working time, with value added taxes, with punishment taxes on overtime and such things, Austria will not reduce unemployment rates and will increase economic growth in the foreseeable future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e12715	The next item is the speech by Mr Ing. May. Big. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e12733	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Dear viewer! I have let the hearing in the Committee on Budgets go through a little while in the preparation for today and I am particularly reminded of Dr. Marterbauer, SPÖ. He said we have a difficult environment, and the problem with investment is, above all, that the mood is not right. That is why I would like to talk about offensive measures now. New offensive measures have been introduced in this budget framework: € 230 million per year for science and research, € 250 million for employment ratio 50+, € 288 million for the security package, € 350 million for national defence, € 900 000 for broadband. In addition, the old offensive measures remain, unfortunately with the exception of the craftsman bonus, where you may need to adjust a bit. This increases the offensive package from €3.4 billion to € 6.4 billion. Positive is also the round hemisphere legislative: The new responsibility to come, the crowdfunding law, the SME financing companies, the start of the red tape – all these are things that have a positive impact on the mood. What to do You here in this high house? – There is a poor argument that more expenditure is required, although the budget framework represents the right trend. If you are on the weekend and talk to people from the economy, you will be asked: What do you want from us? Actually, they say: Leave me alone with further action! – That is why we do not need to discuss machine taxes and additional new taxes, nor do we need a discussion on levelling-up, where institutions should simply be abolished for specific target groups, but let us work on the economy! Then the mood will change, then more will be invested and positive progress will be made. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] Another word on Mr Wimmer – I do not leave Mr Eßl alone now – is that: There are socialist heads of state who buy barracks to leave them empty just to avoid having to take asylum. The Socialist Minister of Defence wants to send workers elsewhere, wants to destroy jobs, wants to destroy good infrastructure, wants to destroy the federal assets, although other things are free. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] If one cannot and should defend against such unnecessary proposals,... [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Crochet: Such a fool...!]] – This has something to do with the budget framework, because what is required in this respect is to destroy property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e12799	Mrs Windbüchler-Sushill. It's enough time because we won't be calling the next point until 5:5 p.m. [[Unrest in the meeting room.]] . I now ask for calmness and calmness so that the speaker receives the attention she deserves. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e12826	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The hope was quite great, there was indeed a shimmer of hope on the horizon: In the face of the most recent dramas, the refugee tragedy in the Mediterranean with so many victims and dead, Werner Faymann and Reinhold Mitterlehner took part on 28 May. In April the Council of Ministers announced that the government would increase development aid. Foreign aid organisations, development aid organisations, developmental thinktanks, universities, international development – all have hoped, everyone has expected these great words to actually follow actions; but it looks quite different. Hope was great. During today's debate, the developmentist NGOs were also present, including Volkshilfe, Red Cross, Fairtrade, Caritas, Light for the World, Care and the Foundation for Global Responsibility, whose representatives I would like to welcome here. Hope was great for all of us. It was said that the government wanted to present the increase of development aid to Parliament next week, which was said on 28 November. April. “The trend has to go up,” said Reinhold Mitterlehner, who needs a good, prepared plan developed by Minister of Finance Hans Jörg Schelling and Chancellor Josef Ostermayer, said Werner Faymann. The rescue operations by the sea are not sufficient to ensure that the EZA is increased to an important extent by next week's plenary session on 28 November. According to Reinhold Mitterlehner, this is also intended to be concreteized in April. [[President Bures takes over the presidency again.]] This much-Quoted plenary session was held on 4 May. May, required by the Greens due to the refugee tragedy in the Mediterranean. It was much discussed, it was presented a lot, it was said a lot, it was also much spoken, but there was no concreteization. There was no concrete approach to how the increase in development cooperation can actually look like, in fact, how development policy is actually being designed, how more money is actually to be made available transparently. On the contrary. Even after the explorations, for example by Klubobmann Andreas Schieder, who said quite clearly that an increase was necessary, which said quite clearly – from the side of Parliament – that the low dosage was a shame, and despite the promise of the government, whose representatives are also partly behind me, there is nothing here. Nothing! There is no increase in the ceilings, no additional money for development cooperation, no additional money for multilateral development cooperation, i.e. UNHCR, child refugee work, child assistance and refugee work; no additional money for humanitarian aid. It's different: Today we have also heard that there may be discussions in autumn, that there may be a development plan in summer to increase gradually and that there may also be a budgetary framework. This “perhaps” is too little, ladies and gentlemen, for it is finally time to act in this regard and to comply with what you have promised. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Increases in ceilings are necessary and will be implemented as a next step. That is why I am tabling an amendment which has been distributed to you and which I would like to explain below. The foreign disaster fund will finally be increased from €5 million in 2016 to €15 million, and bilateral development cooperation will be increased by €100 million in 2016 and €60 million each year. For this reason, €60 million is the cumulative withdrawal of development cooperation, and the money that the state of development cooperation has already taken must finally be returned to the pot of development cooperation. The amounts contained in the application are not very large, but they save lives. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, you must never forget: Each time you shorten development cooperation, you also destroy life, destroy hope, destroy prospects. It is obviously easier for the government parties to actually support military attacks against refugees than to spend only one cent more on development cooperation. Angry and anger can no longer be expressed in words. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, finally act!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e12915	The amendment just mentioned has been distributed in writing, is properly filed and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e13504	I am now interrupting the negotiations on item 2 of the agenda so that the urgent request for urgent procedure can take place at 15.04 a.m. in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[15:04:47]] Request for urgent procedure of Deputies Ing. Waltraud Dietrich, colleagues in the Federal Chancellor concerning “Death of the host, the village – SPÖ and ÖVP destroy Austrian cultural heritage” (1136/A)(E)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e13531	We now come to the urgent treatment of the self-employed application 1136/A(E). As he has now approached all the Members, the reading by the writer is not sufficient. The urgent application has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e13726	I give Mrs. Klubobfrau Ing. Dietrich as an applicant for the reasons of the urgent request. According to § 74a para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed your speaking time 20 minutes. Mrs Klubobfrau, you are speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e13748	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated members of the Federal Government! Federal Chancellor! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! “If the host dies, the village dies” is a title that is very provocative and has been chosen by us quite consciously, because some time ago the “Salzburger Nachrichten” also entitled – on 7 May. ==References== This article reads: “In more and more Salzburg places, the host moves away – and the company with him. ... There needs to be a meeting place in the place where residents can easily get together, says Anita Moser, who is responsible for municipal development at the Salzburg educational plant.” My Appreciations Ladies and gentlemen! 4.6 million Austrians live in rural areas, and everyone who has gone through the rural area with open eyes over the last 20 years has seen how one inn has locked up after another. There are already places where, when a baptism, a wedding, a funeral, is no longer an inn. The measures that the Federal Government is now taking are those measures that are driving this host death, and on the other hand, we are holding back. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] We are not only concerned with destroyed existences, unemployment, criminalisation of the government, but also with the destruction of Austrian cultural assets. [[Call the SPÖ:... tax evasion!]] Mr. Zanger and I, both of us have known a guest house – “have”, because that is also the past – in which people met weekly, also a former National Council member of the ÖVP. I was there once: They have been able to sing five, six, seven verses of each song because they met weekly to live folk culture. That's why we believe: Houses are closely connected with folk culture and not separated by anything. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Matznetter and Mr Zanger.]] Innkeepers are also an important part of social life. If the government is now constantly criminalizing the hostess and gastronomy – so much so tax fraud is assumed, in the way that they want to get even more under the nail – then, Mr. colleague, I have a number for you as tax advisor: [[in the direction of the Abg. Show mitznetter]] In 2014 the gastronomy was at the top of the insolvency in Styria. That means that the host is not doing so well that we can scrap them even more and even more on them. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Darabos.]] Karl Wratschko – who will certainly be well-known to Mr Lopatka – also speaks of a money problem, whether or not the gastronomy in the Chamber of Commerce. He says it's a dead end for businesses, because operating costs and wage costs are enormously high and for many no longer to vote in the long term. In other words, we are talking about a professional group which has been under enormous pressure over the last few years and which is now being pushed further into the corner by these measures, which the Federal Government is setting up. We are concerned that the rural area will not be eroded any more. After the closure of Post, Gendarmerie and Schools, the host is the last remaining infrastructure, and if we do not do everything we can to keep this host in rural areas, then the rural area dies. That's why we have to do everything we can to gastronomy to preserve social life in order to keep the host alive. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I'll tell you at this point on the part of the Stronach team: We are making a clear commitment to rural areas, and we are making this confession because we want people to have the opportunity to find living conditions in rural areas, and that migration in agglomeration centres is finally stopped. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Gastronomy creates jobs, especially decentralised jobs, which are no longer replaced, because if the host locks in the last grave, this job is forever lost. The gastronomy pays taxes, creates infrastructure, markets and processes regional products and is a meeting place for young and old. But what happens at government level? – loads, loads, loads. One tortoise after another, one to the other: Allergensverordnung, investments in non-smoker protection – 100 million € have invested the host, ladies and gentlemen, 100 million €, and they do not even have legal certainty that these regulations will still apply in the coming years. That is, with a stroke all this is invalid and the host remains on their investments. That's a way we're not going to take. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team, as well as with representatives of the FPÖ.]] The outrage comes not only from our side: Many of the colleagues in this House were in favour, I think, of two weeks in front of Parliament's host demonstration, in which about 3 000 consumers have stood up and said: That's not how it goes! – There was a host who had four companies in Germany – well running. This host has said that he has had such a significant loss of sales due to this non-smoker regulation that all four companies have become insolvent. That means huge sales losses are expected. It was also an Italian who said: It's funny, it's always said to you, in Italy there's a smoking ban that works so well. She meant she's a smoker and smokes in every local in Italy. She goes there, smokes and makes... [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] - Dear colleagues, you should have listened to this. [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] A topic was also the protection of children. If the people in the inn are not allowed to smoke anymore, they go out, smoke outside, the arrants around them are all outraged, and again the host is the one who has to take everything on his cap. That is absolutely the wrong way. Ladies and gentlemen, I am already with you that smoking is not healthy, that it has negative health aspects – I am myself convinced non-smokers – but we want self-determination. We want to be self-determination, the host should be able to determine whether he wants a smoker's room, the previous regulation or a non-smoking site, and we want to be self-determination for the consumer. Everyone has to be able to decide whether to go to a local where smoking is done or to a non-smoker's room. Self-determination, not compulsory regulation! [[Congratulations with the Stronach team, as well as with representatives of the FPÖ.]] Our demand in this context is: If there is this absolute ban on smoking, then we want a one-to-one compensation for the host. The next tortoise is the registration bank obligation from €15 000 net turnover per year, which is just €1 250 net turnover per month. Imagine that someone makes 1 250 € net sales, has to subtract the use of goods, rent, heating, electricity and cetera. What's left of him? - Wants Do you really charge such a person with a good conscience with the amount of €4,000 for a register? Do you really want to burden these people with costs of 800 € for hardware and software? I'll tell you: We're not! We are against this register obligation at this level. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and the FPÖ representatives.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: What are you for then?]] Ladies and gentlemen, all the experts are right. What you assume to the host is that these are all frauds, that they are all people who are passing the financial office, is not true. Our hosts are decent people, and the sum you've assumed – € 900 million – will never come in. Two days ago – or was it yesterday? – came the last strike: Every customer has to take the cashier. – This too is an intervention in privacy, and on the other hand, we are careful about it. We're not going to take this cashier with us! We're against a constituency state. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team, as well as with representatives of the FPÖ.]] How do we stand in Austria? . We have a surveillance state, and the creation of the glass man is progressing. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Do you also find that the BILLA intervenes in your privacy?]] And I'll tell you: We want to get a glass state and the privacy of the citizens. We want the transparency database finally to be introduced, because we want to know exactly where these €80 billion are going, who are the beneficiaries of this funding. Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps you smile because the topic of host is too small for you, but I tell you: Nobody deserved it. No professional group has deserved to be so criminalised by the government. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team, as well as with representatives of the FPÖ.]] These are people who pay taxes, these are people who create jobs, and these are people who contribute a lot to our social life. We wanted to know exactly and have had a study in Styria on how the mood is between the hosts and the entrepreneurs. It will surprise you little: The hosts have almost no confidence in politics. [[Abg. Arbitrators: This may be because you asked!]] They are proud of their companies, family companies, but 56 percent of the gastronomy – think about it! – advise their children to take over the operation. This is a development that we must stop. We need an environment that is business-friendly, we need an environment that strengthens companies and gives young people the courage to become self-employed. – Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e13907	Mr Faymann spoke on the submission of an opinion. Mr Bundeskanzler, your speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e13926	Madam President. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The successful gastronomy Attila Dogudan said: “You can only be against cash registers if you want to avoid taxes.” Fortunately, the current discussions in the gastronomy – like almost all discussions on the measures related to the tax reform – are marked by two sides: A page has already used the register as it is to be used, has already paid taxes and has no understanding that a discussion is being held about whether it is right or wrong to pay taxes. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] The workers also pay taxes. If you were to make a survey on whether employees might not want to pay taxes, perhaps someone who does not want to pay taxes would be included. The fact that we introduce laws in our country and also provide them with the necessary measures to control whether these laws are complied with is actually a matter of course, whether for hosts or for other professional groups. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In your application, you highlighted the Austrian spirit of entrepreneurship. Undisputed, the Austrian economic location is crucial to whether we are able to achieve this – including growth – which is what we need in terms of tax revenue, what we need in terms of services, in terms of jobs. Since you only list entrepreneurs, gastronists, innkeepers, hoteliers et cetera at the economic location, entrepreneurship and the quality of the business location, which provide the basis for the general government tax revenue, I must tell you: Yes, these are very diligent groups in our society, but do not forget at “et cetera, et cetera” the workers who, through hard work, also do a lot in this country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you look at the key figures about the development of the gastronomy, you can see that the number of entrepreneurs in the gastronomy in recent years is relatively constant and only slightly decreasing. In fact, in some areas it is noticeable that there are fewer localities than before, in others their number has increased. But in total – according to the Austrian statistics as well as the Economic Chamber’s balance sheet – these are relatively constant developments. Value added has also increased more in gastronomy in recent years than GDP. The number of people employed has increased by 15,000; this is a merit for workers and entrepreneurs in this area and shows that there are also framework conditions that help to make these economic successes possible. Of course, what the framework conditions are also depends on the purchasing power of consumers. Therefore, the tax reform, which brings relief to 6.4 million people, is a declared objective of increasing purchasing power. More than €5 billion will be moved. And when it comes to counter-financing, point by point, focus only on the fact that there is always a group that is not right, is not art. The art is to move €5 billion and say: We want to strengthen purchasing power and we want to strengthen this purchasing power to ensure that those we relieve do not have to pay for this discharge ourselves. And this has been achieved by 6.4 million people who are relieved, but in general. This is a merit of this tax reform and this tax reduction, which we are currently reviewing. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] Much could be said about the issue of the obligation to register, including in international comparison, also about the question of the obligation to provide evidence, also about the question of other sectors, such as the construction industry, salaries and benefits to workers via giro accounts, in order to get away from cash transactions. There are many proposals made by the responsible experts and officials of the Ministry of Finance, including those responsible for all of us in the tax investigation and ensuring that adopted laws are also complied with. In this tax reform, many of these proposals have been taken up, including the much-discussed registers. I believe it is in principle correct and necessary that, even if you have to be in the gastronomy with regard to smoking bans in Europe, you create clear rules. The criticism of the existing regulation was that it is not clear enough. A compromise was tried at the time. But shortly thereafter, all sides – including those who have signed the compromise – felt that a regulation with more clarity would be better than these partitions and defined spaces. The goal can only be to increase non-smokers protection. If you are talking about freedoms, I would also like to address the rights of workers, because they have a right to non-smokers protection in their work. And they have the right to demand from us that we also protect their working relationship very precisely in the area of health protection. That too is a matter that we have to fulfil. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now is a regulation with 1. May 2018 is to enter into force – it is not yet decided, but in consideration – and until then, with promotions, measures and premium models, it has set a number of steps, indeed not a measure by which to attack someone with a political direction; for these long transitional spaces show that we take care of health protection on the one hand, but also take account of the gastronomy. I would therefore like to remind you, in general, of the overall question of gastronomy: The objective of tax reduction and tax reform is clear, namely a political promise – which almost all parties made before the election – that of reducing taxes on labour. You also know that there is no proposal that can be approved by a hundred percent. The fact that these proposals, which we have made, contain considerations about the fight against fraud and to strengthen the purchasing power of the population, was and is a real goal. That is why I see this discussion as a partial discussion of an entire question, namely a tax reform that we can be proud of.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e14024	We are going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes, with each club having a total speaking time of 25 minutes. Mrs. Dr. Reciprocating. I'll set you seven minutes of speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e14048	Dear representatives on the government bank! Federal Chancellor! Minister of Justice! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! Dear taxpayers! I am simply taking this unfair burden on the host to highlight this so-called tax reform, which you have just praised in this way. I am therefore saying “so-called” because, in reality, it is only a long-overdue collective reform that only relieves hard-working people to a part of the burden when they are returned to them the money or part of the money that they have been taken away for years by the cold progression – in the form of this democratically unauthorized tax increase that takes place every year. The foreseeable consequences of this tax reform will be felt both inside and outside very soon. Inwardly, because taxpayers have to pay for their reform themselves. This small one-off effect due to the cold progression that you have unfortunately not abolished – because it is simply too convenient to have a few million additional available each year, by the way, it is up to €3 billion – will be lost in a few years, provided that this does not happen earlier by the ECB, which by inflation seeks to devalue the money anyway. On the external side, this tax reform will make itself felt negative due to the still unattractive location conditions of Austria's economic location. Otherwise, one cannot really talk about reform. The serious issues, such as pensions, health care or federalism, have not been affected at all. However, the Socialists in both government parties are all the more affected by the legitimately acquired and taxed goods of the Austrians. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Indeed, legally acquired income and assets are by no means protected in our so-called rule of law. Although the state promises a certain degree of protection from robbery and theft, it is with far too little police and a starved German army. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team, as well as with representatives of the FPÖ.]] However, the taxation with which the never-sat state is mercilessly serving the citizens – most of it against their will – has already exceeded an unhealthy level. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] Unproductive redeployment bureaucrats and desk perpetrators are mainly sitting in Vienna and seem to have made it a life task to bring as much money into the Marod State Banks as possible, and this primarily with the private employers in that country. Yeah, who else!Unknown term type: "%s".? - All the others you've been squeezing out. Instead of ensuring that our country has the best possible business-friendly climate with a low state rate, low additional wage costs and tax incentives for investors, the Austrian Leviathan – in the form of the Federal Chancellor Faymann and his comrades in the SPÖ and ÖVP – seeks to milk the tax cows to the death, and wastes much too much energy in the construction of a surveillance state, which once, in principle, presents to everyone, especially the hostess, under general suspicion. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The glass account of the companies, in which any financial official can look into without a judicial decision, will make the domestic envy society jealously jubilant. The glass account for every citizen and the abolition of the cash will definitely follow quickly – no matter what you write into your new party program. By the way are the times of freedom, the liberal idea of value for which our ancestors fought so hard. The presumption of innocence as enshrined in our legal order is simply reversed, from now on the official presumption of guilt. The “NZZ” writes on the topic of Austrian banking secrecy or its easy-to-use task: "It seems to have been forgotten that banking secrecy, from a liberal point of view, is above all a right of freedom: It serves to protect financial privacy from State invasions. Modern talk is about informational self-determination and data protection, which are often requested in other areas.” In this context, we all remember the rightly violent protests against data storage. And now that the government is sending us through the financial nude scanner, there's hardly any vortex? Where's the call of the media? – The country’s performance-oriented citizens do not want to be affected by the financial nude scanner. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team, as well as with representatives of the FPÖ.]] In reality, this is the even greater attack on liberal society than the many skillfully packed tax increases. It is simply an expression of the envy of society, of the class struggle and, above all, of socialist politics in both parties, who fear too much freedom, achievement and, above all, self-responsibility of the citizens. And who argues that in the case of account inspection without judicial decision only is the fight against evil tax evasions, is really underestimating the ingenuity of state and politics. As a reminder, as the great and mighty justify themselves, the famous and famous quote of Mr. Juncker: “We decide something, then put it in the room and wait a while for what happens. If then there is no great scream and no uprising, because most do not understand what has been decided, then we continue – step by step until there is no return.” It would not surprise me if there was a new bestseller soon, a reissue – George Orwell: “2015”. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e14153	Next item is the report by Mr Matznetter. I'll set you five minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e14177	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! The issue is far too serious to be treated at the level of your urgent request. [[Abg. Hagen: You mustn't talk about level, there you are the wrong ones!]] I mean, at least you could have made the effort to take a serious issue seriously. And I would like to underline that, on the basis that you yourself have used this kind of golache. It is not true that the Stronach team would be inactive. Mrs. Ing. Dietrich has called us a number from the so-called study of her own team Stronach Academy, but only the number of parents' wishes for their children, for which they advise them. [[The speaker will hold up the study of the team Stronach Akademie "Stronach Akademie "Bei der Hotellerie und Gastronomy in Styria 2015".]] It might have been interesting from your own study... We don't want to discuss the validity of 209 Steirian hosts, but 209, actually it's meated... – Mrs Dietrich, I also read your own study to you, so I have no problem at all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dietrich.]] [[The speaker points to a corresponding position in the study.]] Sample 209; it is large enough printed. Yeah, but maybe you should have said a few things there once: “How do you appreciate the development of your own company over the next five years?” – What did the Stronach team find out? – 6 percent very positive, 63 percent more positive and rather negative only 20 percent, very negative only 2 percent. [[The speaker shows the appropriate page.]] [[Abg. Haubner:... two thirds!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hagen.]] The requested Styrian hostes are obviously more realistic than the Stronach team. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The number of employees: 9 percent want to set more, 85 percent want to hold the employees stand, only 6 percent want to cut down, so the Styrian host see this clearly different from the Stronach team. We can continue here. For the ban on smoking: 45 percent are for the general ban on smoking – source: Team Stronach Academy. [[The speaker will give the study an up-to-date demonstration.]] [[Oh, no, no, no,]] On the question of turnover: Ms Dietrich also asked: “Are you afraid of the general ban on smoking in sales?” – Do you know what the majority said? – 54 percent: No, hardly. But obviously the internal processing of the study in the Stronach team is not yet far enough advanced because you were unable to draw the necessary political consequences from the self-designed. More interesting – registers: Mrs. Klubobfrau! You should really first Read your own studies of the Stronach Akademie team, then you would save yourself a performance like this. They also asked: “What statements do you most agree with?” – To the registration fee requirement: Do you know what – the green barn, that's almost 50 percent – 49 percent have said? – “Is justified because there is always ‘black sheep’.” [[The speaker points to the appropriate position in the study]] That is what the host himself says, and rightly this host, because what the Federal Chancellor has quoted applies to everyone else. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] Yes, the majority is paying their taxes. But do you know what this is an unfair competition if the host makes a third of it black? – That’s how one has to walk, and the other one makes bag hops. In the sense of fair competition, both will have to pay their taxes. And that’s why the Stronach study team says with the 209 sample “is justified because there is always “black sheep.” – 49 percent. [[the speaker holds the study in the height]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] By the way, criminalisation, which is only 36 percent. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And I tell you quite honestly, Mrs Dietrich: The field of bringing something populist – because it is not a topic – is already sufficiently served by the FPÖ. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] As a new group, you should devote more to an objective debate and not try to outdo it. This is a chance you have to use. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Steinbichler and Mr Auer.]] You don't always have to exchange the club woman; maybe change She's back again – colleague Nachbaur again, colleague Lugar. To be honest: I haven't seen any progress since Frank Stronach left. Seriously, Mrs. Ing. Dietrich, you take us away for two and a half hours without having a serious urgent topic. Perhaps you should at least order what you have raised accordingly, because then you could have applauded the Chancellor of the Federal Republic and his government instead of telling of any host who is no longer being sung. Quite honest: I would expect more level and would also be nice for this house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e14327	The next item is the speech by Mr Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e14355	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! First of all, I would like to take the opportunity to thank the Austrian hostess. They are constantly able to provide the highest quality and absolute maximum performance under the most difficult conditions, whether in urban or rural areas. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] And they are thus a sign for Austria and certainly part of the mystery of Austrian success in tourism. [[Abg. Kitzmüller:...Lippenbekend!]] Mein Ladies and gentlemen, I have also read the study carefully and could probably have quoted here just as much as Mr Matznetter, who, of course, is now shortening my speaking time, but I would nevertheless like to say a few words about it. I think we must realistically see this: Just don't have the host; so to beautify something here, I think it's the wrong way, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Bundeskanzler, with all appreciation: Mr Attila Dogudan is a very great businessman who is doing a lot for Austria all over the world, but we have over 50,000 gastronomy and hostes in this country who are already fighting for survival in rural areas. [[Interlocutory calls by Walter Rosenkranz and Peter Wurm]] It is therefore a matter of providing support here, and of recognizing that there is a need for action. It is also about the following: It is about the appreciation for our hosts, our gastronomy, which we should place here. I would have expected you to have a little more emotion for our host. I would like from your side and from your colleagues in the government, the entrepreneurs are not always criminalised and put in a corner in which they do not belong. We assume that the entrepreneur is an honorable merchant, an honorable host, an honorable self-employed person. I can testify for myself; I come from a family of entrepreneurs. My father was always one who then invested the Schilling – then held the euro – in his own company and looked at it as well as the employees, because if the employees did well, then we also did well. [[Abg. New builder: This will be difficult in the future!]] In this respect, it was always a close relationship. That's what we should do. We should not play out – they criminalize one another and the other are the good – but I think it's just one another. We're employers! I do not know if you know that the Austrian gastronomy employs nearly 150 000 people, that it trains over 3,000 apprentices, so it makes a lot of contributions to this Austria, which the tourists are so happy to visit. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm]] The fact that this Austria is so successful is partly due to the fact that the host exists in the village. The profession of the host is as traditional as Austrian history, and the inn is when you look at it – I am a confessing inn and host house fan – in addition to the four walls of the most popular residence of the Austrians. Despite modern forms of communication and digitization like the mobile phone, people like to go to the host because you can talk there because you are heard there because people meet there because you meet acquaintances and friends because you do business there, listen and talk. Gastronomy is a human work – hand-made and man-made for people. The Austrian gastronomy – I would like to stress this again – is very valuable to us. That is why, Mrs Dietrich, it is also necessary to say that, according to your study, two thirds of the Styrian hostess see their future very positively. [[Abg. New builder: Despite this state government!]] I believe that this is because in the innkeepers there is as much a positive entrepreneurship as in the entrepreneur himself. The host is an entrepreneur, and therefore he also belongs to support in this respect and is not ill-treated. For this reason, we must put all the levers in motion so that we support them. I can take my native Salzburg as an example: We have a great campaign with the farmer's heritage. This is being promoted by the country. We do not necessarily want us to live on subsidies, since I already agree with Mr Schellhorn, but it is a good story and is applied internationally. 350 hosts in 73 municipalities make up – 250 000 € advertising budget. Then 70,000 to 80,000 guests arrive and revive the region and the innhouses. I believe that this is an intelligent policy, an intelligent tourism policy, and so should we, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As Mr Eßl claps that way, I must say that this is in a very good relationship with agriculture. I would also like to stress this here because the economy and agriculture belong together in this area, and that is a good story. Now we are coming, because it has already been criticised today, to the company handovers. We know that over the next ten years, about 58 000 companies in Austria – of which 40 000 are in the family sector – are in the process of transfer. These 40 000 have about 300,000 jobs. What are we gonna do?- Oh, my God! – There is something we need to do, because we need to see that these transfers in the family remain manageable. This is what we have done with this new tax reform, ladies and gentlemen. We have made the operation transfer in the family quiet and durable. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If you give up your business in the family today, you don't have to pay basic income tax up to €900. I think that can be seen. If you get a little bit over it, it's still like it's liquefied, and if you have a problem in a year, then you can spread the effort for five years. This is entrepreneurship brand ÖVP, and in terms of that, I believe we can continue to support the host. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler]] [[A lively ironic hustle and bustle of Abg. Peter Worm]] In this sense we want successful and good gastronomy in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e14466	The next item is Mr Themessl's speech. I'll set you up for six minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e14484	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Minister of Justice! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr. Haubner, you just thanked the hosts for being a host. I would like to thank all the gastronomy and tourism companies that, despite these ongoing, recurring and new additional burdens, they still have the grace to be active in this area. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] They hope, of course, that, among other things, they will receive help from Parliament. You also asked an interesting question. You have said that in the next few years almost 60,000 farms are in front of the transfer and that a majority of them are family businesses and many are also from the tourism sector. You asked what we could do. That's an interesting question! You belong to a government party – that is, the government still consists of SPÖ and ÖVP – and you ask what we can do there. [[Abg. Haubner: I told you what we were doing!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] For years now, we have been discussing the need to facilitate business transfers. You know very well that the rules on the approval of the plant are still not untapped. Today, if a parent hands over a farm to his children and if the operation does exactly the same as before, he needs a new plant permit, which is filled on the side and with conditions that cause eerie costs. We've been telling you this for years, you promise for years that you'll do something. You didn't do anything! Now you ask me in the course of this tax reform here: What are we gonna do? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] I can tell you, you just have to do it! Finally, if the rules on the approval of the plant are changed, it will make it easier for family farms to carry out operations here! But you do exactly the opposite, and that's the huge problem you have. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you look at the counter-financing proposals on this tax reform, you can see that it is exactly what is happening that cannot resist, which includes tourism and gastronomy. You know, Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, the graves, the large companies, the large corporations that you wanted to meet on the part of social democracy, which does not meet, who can outsource. Tourism and gastronomy take place here on site. They can't outsource, and they're exactly the ones you're meeting. Now I'm telling you what happened to the hostess, the gastronomy and the tourism companies in the last few months and years. First of all, this is the extension of depreciation periods; that is, the tax burden per year increases logically. There are the increases in VAT for nocturnal farms and then the allergen regulation from the EU, which is also a parade example. I am pleased that the new President of the Commission, Juncker, has recently said that he wants to bring this regulatory will in, or stop it, and in the future he will leave the shower heads and the olives in peace. This is extremely reassuring when the EU comes up with a proposal for which it does not really want to worry. You have to ask yourself, as an entrepreneur, how sick the people in Brussels are when you have to deal with such things! That's like we don't have any other problems in this world. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I'll tell you something. Now, the ban on smoking – which clearly shows that no one can rely on legal certainty when he makes investments – and the registration fee is also required to do so. Now I ask you: Where's all this going and what's next?- Oh, my God! – The EU is already discussing the warnings on alcohol; the next thing will be that alcohol is banned or that you may need separate rooms if you have a beer or a glass Wine or whatever wants to approve. Federal Chancellor! You have said that in the gastronomy sector you have managed to get more 15 000 employees in recent years. I congratulate you! You know exactly that a large number of additional employees who have been employed over the past few years are mostly part-time or minor employees. So these are all jobs that a person who has to live on them cannot live on. [[Abg. Obernoster: That's not right! That's not right!]] We are heading towards American conditions where an Austrian citizen needs two or three part-time jobs in order to get over the rounds at all. Now there is nothing bad in part-time employment, because there are many families in which one is happy if the man or the woman can also pursue part-time employment in order to improve the income of the family, but there can be no goal of calling part-time employment a success. They said that the framework conditions must be agreed if we have succeeded in employing 15,000 additional employees. I say to you that the framework conditions of the Austrian economy have led us to permanently fall back in all rankings over the last five years from year to year. I congratulate you!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e14569	Next, Mr Willi, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), on behalf of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e14587	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Federal Chancellor! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I suggest a sentence: Fear of death has also died! But now I come to this urgent request from the Stronach team. The only good thing about the proposal is that today all the political groups in Parliament are singing a homage to our hosts. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the greens.]] [[Abg. Steinhauser: Yes, exactly!]] That's good and should be like that. My host is the Burenwirt in Hötting, Alfred. I'll tell him he's an Austrian cultural asset, according to Team Stronach. He'll be glad. [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Themessl.]] What I am amazed at is, ladies and gentlemen, that the Federal Chancellor is now sitting here. I am glad that you are there, but I am surprised that you are the address of this request, since the Minister of Economic Affairs is responsible for tourism itself. The Minister of Finance is responsible for the tax reform and all the changes you criticize. [[Abg. Dietrich: Smoking?- Oh, my God!]] But that seems to be a reflection with you: The main thing is, it's against the reds. You might be able to win something from your side, but I say I look at everyone. Let's be honest: Why are we talking about these points today? – That non-smoker protection is important, I think we have consensus. The Allergensverordnung makes sense so that people who go to the inn do not always have to ask for a long time if they are allowed to eat this and that. This is just the guest service that is the king. I think that – and some other things more – are meaningful changes that we all approve of. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ and the Abg. Steinbichler.]] The central criticism of the Stronach team is the government's tax reform plans. You can actually find a lot of things bad. The green tax reform plans, prepared by my colleague Bruno Rossmann, have a very clear objective: We want to relieve income and, above all, the lower income and have to get the money somewhere. We Greens would get the money where they are particularly powerful and the most rich and rich, who still save themselves with many tricks today, because they find opportunities not to pay or very little taxes. – This is the green approach. In the philosophies behind the two parties of the Social Democrats and the Christian Social – that is, the People's Party – there is also the approach of solidarity. You say redistribution from the rich to the poor. [[towards SPÖ]] You say sharing is noble. [[towards ÖVP]] Christian social values are: He who has a lot should give something to him who has little. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kogler.]] So in your philosophical substructure is the principle of solidarity within each. But instead of making a tax reform that implements this principle, the ÖVP says above all that it does not attack the rich and that the rich should stay rich because it is good. The result is a rather murky tax reform, which is not actually a tax reform, but just a collective reform. To do this, you have to scratch the money together somewhere – among other things at the hosts. The Stronach team titled “Death the host – die the village!” – I don’t have this fear now. I really must congratulate Mr Matznetter, who has withdrawn this investigation. The match Matznetter against Team Stronach did not go out 1 : 0. [[Call at SPÖ:7 : 0]] That was 3 : 0, because he has disproved your statements with your own numbers. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Schimanek: With me it was 6 : 0!]] But now I come back to the signals you send from ÖVP and SPÖ to the host. The fact is that tourism was the stable economic factor in the economic crisis. The figures have been kept, the jobs have been kept, and as Tyroleans I always say that there are some gains in the payment of tourism. There is a lot to fix, but big modo tourism was an extremely stable industry. The Minister of Finance was able to milk tourism as a good cow. They paid a lot of their taxes, they kept jobs. And now the “thank”, the message that this industry was very stable, the increase in VAT, longer depreciation periods and so on. What surprises me so much is that what is now going on with the tax reform is contrary to what the Minister of Economic Affairs himself has worked out. That is why I would be so glad if the Minister of Economic Affairs were there. There is the new Austrian tourism strategy; it was developed in 2010. By the way, there were always a lot of people from the Ministry of Finance in all groups, so they were involved. For example, it is part of the “economic framework” that tax law should approach depreciation to economic life – in the case of wellness and leisure infrastructure instead of 33 years 15 years. This should have been up to 2015, and after 2015, a degressive AFA is expected to come to buildings. The credo of the Minister for Economic Affairs is to adjust the depreciation periods to the actual duration of use. Very logical and very reasonable. I quote the second point: ‘Adaptation of expenses in the hospitality sector from currently 255 000 to 700 000 € Adjustment of individual drawing limit from 150 000 to 400 000 €’. So that would be generously extended. In other words, the Minister of Economic Affairs has supported, with his preface, measures that go in a completely different direction, namely that tourism has a good economic environment, because tourism is an important sector for Austria. But now a tax reform is coming out, in the context of which the opposite is happening – and this is annoyed by me. I'm annoyed that the Minister of Economic Affairs no longer does what he himself signed. In short, you can't believe him. [[Abg. Deimek: He already has such a long nose!]] My approach is that we return from a completely maligned tax reform to one, which makes sense that if we want to relieve the lower and lower incomes, we will get the money where it is located. There the green tax reform plans are just a hundred times better than yours. But I know that You have somehow cemented that you praise your tax reform over the green clover, but it is not worth this praise. Therefore, my request is at the end – it is still time until July – that we remove at least some of these completely false signals from the tax reform, because tourism is a stable economic factor, a good cow that has always been milked, and suddenly they want to withdraw food from it. [[Abg. Deimek:...or kill!]] This cannot be done, and that is why we need to improve here. Finally, I would like to stress: Let us be glad that we have committed hosts that we have hosts who believe in their future! We as guests will hopefully continue to be well treated and are there, with our hosts, the king.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e14749	The next item is Mr Schellhorn's speech. I'll set you up for seven minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e14768	Thank you, Madam President. Appreciate Mr. Federal Chancellor! Dear Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr Matznetter said it was so serious. If I consider the speech given by Mr Willi that it is about signals, even considering, then I am already somewhat shaken – also with respect to the request made by Mr Dietrich. There is really nothing on the government's side of this serious matter to kuder and laugh. [[Congratulations with NEOS and Team Stronach.]] [[Abg. Yılmaz: Go!]] In this respect, I must also say honestly that it is a matter of appreciation, as Mr Haubner mentioned. With all due respect, in this hanging sign you made a delle and not us. We know that, and we all know in this area that in this history, as far as this tax package is concerned, there is also a huge proportion of the ÖVP and a huge proportion of the Economic Federation. Let me continue by saying: I am pleased that Mr Willi criticises the fact that the Minister for Economic Affairs is not here. But I also think it is good that the Federal Chancellor is there, because I can still remember clearly the words of the Federal Chancellor in the Causa, which concerns the burdens and the inspection of accounts. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Well!]] He said that, as long as he's the boss, the banking secret certainly won't be vented. In this respect, I do not know how seriously to take you and whether to laugh at it. I'm more interested in crying because we can't rely on you because there's no legal certainty here either. [[Congratulations with NEOS and Team Stronach.]] One point in this overall package and in this request, which was made, of course, was smoking. The ban on smoking will come, but it will also be important to ensure that, after this ban on smoking, the safety of the establishments that are outdoors, wherever the issue is about the protection of the workers, is further ensured and that there is no new conditions. Let me say one more thing about the signs: Considering the tax reform plans under review today, it is also found that the depreciation period of repairs is extended from 10 to 15 years. I like that. And the next step is to determine when to start the repair cycle. With the bonus malus system for older employees, as required by the SPÖ, put one more thing on it, completely by the practice. You will also put one on it with the 30-hour week and with the 6th holiday week. You really don't create jobs! It is also about these signals, as Mr Willi said, about this stable economic factor, about this stable job engine, which created jobs. You said that right. But it will no longer grow under this load package. For these reasons, I have to say that you should finally take this matter seriously as the head of this Federal Government and not make an industry ridiculous by going out on the government bank. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and NEOS.]] For these reasons – we are also concerned with the reform of the trade order which the ÖVP and SPÖ have long been able to embark on – we are putting forward a motion for a resolution – we are actually bringing in three – where it is mainly a discharge, which is why we are giving a boost to the form of bureaucrats. We therefore make the following requests: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would also like to make a request on tourism and the export industry in particular, including on the name of the brand and on the external trade mark. I would therefore like to make the following request: Motion for a resolution by Mr Schellhorn, colleague and colleagues on '500 days of the Federal Government'. Do something! Austria brand – now!” The National Council may decide: “The Federal Government, in particular the Federal Minister for Science, Research and Economics, is invited to set up a nation of Brand Agency to implement the formation of a ‘Mark Austria’.” And last but not least, the proposal number three: Motion for a resolution by Mr Schellhorn, colleague and colleagues on '500 days of the Federal Government'. Do something! implement Austrian standards strategy’ The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Government, in particular the Federal Minister for Science, Research and Economy, is invited to present an Austrian standards strategy to the National Council by 30 September 2015.” All of this is related to an offensive and to a slimming of the state. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e14854	The motions for resolutions have been properly tabled and are therefore under negotiation. The three applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e15013	Next speaker: Mr Ertlschweiger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e15031	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the TV devices! Mr Matznetter, I'm glad you're in the hall now and don't smoke a cigarette in the back of the smoking chamber. I think it's a little presumptuous that you're making yourself up here and saying that our request is almost unnecessary. Tell the host out! [[Congratulations to Members Dietrich and Zanger.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] Talk to the hosts outside, who have invested, who have no legal certainty, who already have to rebuild! Mr Matznetter. [[Abg. Matznetter:... not invested!]] I'm glad that not everyone in the SPÖ thinks like you. There's a colleague in Burgenland who says: Smoking yes or no is equal to € 100 million in the oven. – If I were in the host, I would feel like I’d be sick too. Check with colleagues Hans Niessl, head of state of the Burgenland! [[Complementary of the Abg. Dietrich.]] I just want to say one thing: You can't do that, Mr Matznetter, just as easily wipe from the table as you do. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Matznetter and Mr Steinhauser.]] You're known for having a good humour. But there you shot clearly beyond the target, that wasn't all right. It would be a command of respect for you to join our club woman, Ing. Dietrich apologise for that. That would be a beautiful sign. [[Abg. Matznetter: Excuse me for... quoting?- Oh, my God!]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, this is a serious issue. If Mr Willi says of the Greens that the village guest house is not so important in rural areas, I must say that is not true, because a guest house is a communication center in rural areas. Anyone who lives in a small community, in a village, goes to the host and exchanges himself there, hears the news there. That revives the whole thing and is also important. But the little host comes to the handcushion. We're right at the jumping point or at the heart of the whole thing, what it's really all about: In reality, we experience nothing but a complete demise, on the one hand the host and on the other hand the consumer. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The hostess, ladies and gentlemen, are eroded by once they are prescribed to be separated, then they do not have to be separated again, then there is a transitional period. There's no human being on it! Consumers are eroded because they are told whether they are allowed to smoke or not. They can't decide for themselves. Where is the freedom of choice? Why can't I decide as a consumer to go to a host with a smoker's room or not? This is anyway the entrepreneurial risk of the host, whether they make less sales or not. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Let us let them have this freedom! Why do we prescribe this to them? Mr. Matznetter, you smoke?- Oh, my God! You then go because of the comfort, because it's just nice to go to a chisel where smoking is done, isn't it? [[Abg. Singer:... can go with you in the future!]] [[Abg. Matznetter: What about the staff?]] Someone who doesn't smoke – like me, I'm a non-smoker – goes to where no smoking is done. Let us not give people freedom of choice, ladies and gentlemen, let us not prescribe everything! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ and the Abg. Matznetter.]] Everything is required, including by the EU. Go to a guest house, eat a normal gulash: A, B, C, D, E! – I wonder how I could grow 38 years old and have survived for so long without knowing what I eat. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I mean, ladies and gentlemen, every half-thinking man knows what he eats, right? He knows what is in there, what he endures, what he does not tolerate. We run as a society towards complete demise. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] I wish again more self-responsibility of people, people must act more self-responsibly! We may then be able to see more people become entrepreneurs again, create jobs and not just be provided by the state and hang on the scene of the state. That's exactly what I think is our problem. I would like us to put our company, and there we are on the subject, not only beatings in front of our feet. Let us finally remove the bureaucracy, to some degree, we relieve the entrepreneurs and help them! The problem is, we don't let them breathe, we'll cut off the air to life. They can no longer move, they are in a complacent state, ladies and gentlemen, and that is not the task of a serious policy. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Matznetter.]] We need to create framework conditions that will make it easier for people to succeed in the economy, create jobs and bring people into employment, which, in future, will boost consumption. People should be able to go to the inn, colleague Matznetter, buy a gulash and a silky beer and be happy there and maybe smoke or not. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and the FPÖ representatives.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] But please: More personal responsibility! That would be a real task and also a beautiful thing. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e15185	The next item is Mrs Ecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e15203	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate listeners! Mrs Dietrich and Mr Ertlschweiger of the NEOS, what is this for a... – ah, apologise, by the Stronach team, apologise! – What is this, please, for an application that you are making here today? [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: No! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] I consider the urgent request to be an important and appropriate means for the opposition parties, but this request is simply not worthy of Parliament. As Salzburger, I only remind you of the manipulation of your party's elections. I remind you of your merchant Bruckberger and your real estate scandal. And then you think the government is creating unemployment and wasting tax billions? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kitzmüller.]] With the extension of the registration bank obligation, companies are in no way suspected of being generalised. It only provides for a uniform, fair tax revenue. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In addition, I would like to note that registers can also offer opportunities and opportunities. [[New call of the abg. Kitzmüller.]] For example, weekly, monthly, annual sales records can be compared, which is quite appropriate for businesses, and entrepreneurs have the opportunity to face balances and thus to respond better. That's the basic idea of every accounting. I am an entrepreneur myself, I have been registered in the SPÖ for decades – and I am allowed to do so, Mr. Col. – and I have never seen registers as a barrier, but rather as a help. [[Abg. New builder:... in the SPÖ?]] The customers are also required to provide proper evidence. On the topic of Allergen Information Regulation. Dear Mrs Dietrich, this is an EU regulation, so this is not within national competence. As a result, your objection is unstoppable. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ as well as the Abg. Dietrich.]] [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: That's not true! That's not right!]] I am particularly pleased when you talk about the waste of tax money from the Stronach team. Now on the topic of smoking ban in the gastronomy: That's where we're limping for decades. Every year thousands of people die from smoking, including passive smoking. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: From food too!]] If you say here that no host can survive without their smoking clientele, please look at Italy, look at France, these are the pleasure countries bad, famous for their good cuisine! [[Abg. Kitzmüller: Check out how many have gone bankrupt!]] This statement that one can smoke anywhere in Italy, that is not true, Mrs Dietrich, that is not so. An Italian would say: Non e vero! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Interlocutory calls from MEPs Neubauer and Dietrich.]] These countries have for many, many years had a functioning smoking law: France since 2007 and Italy since 2005. With this law we protect the younger generation, the workers in the gastronomy and hotel industry. Before I go into your numbering games, I ask you: What is the health of people in our country worth? [[Call:Many]] Now I can bring a few examples – as you know, I am a business spokesperson for SMEs and the EPC – that this government has already launched in the economic sector. We have decided on a new housing package, €5.75 billion in investment, that is, 30 000 new dwellings, a huge engine for the construction industry. We have launched a new Alternative Financing Act to facilitate crowdfunding, we have enabled a new SME financing company. Employee's capital participation: The amount of the allowance was more than doubled. The right to award has been reformed. We have increased research premiums, created new incentives for scientists and researchers. We have created the large educational package with 18 new careers. The reform of social security and reporting requirements has been decided. – These are many, many measures for the economy. Now a counter question to the Stronach team [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: But without reading!]] What have you done? – I would have expected more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e15350	The next item is the speech by Mr Obernoster. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e15369	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Minister of Justice! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and at home in front of the televisions! With regard to the urgent request from the Stronach team “Death of the host, the village dies”: For me as a self-practicing host, this topic has a lot of content. It was said earlier that it is actually a pity that we spend three hours with it. It may not have been the content, because it is very useful and also the right to deal with the subject of economic culture and the host, as formulated in the heading of the request, here in Parliament. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It would be far too easy, however, to say that the next registry obligation is the problem in the hospitality industry. I hardly know a real host who doesn't have a register now. Something else are the small chisels, the small industry in this area. But the hosts are already 90 percent equipped with registers. This is not the problem, but it is the sum of the rules which therefore come to pass. The Federal Chancellor – it is not for me to correct now – is certainly right with the statement that in the hospitality industry the number of commercial rights has not fallen. [[call to the FPÖ.]] That's right. It's more of a rise. But the number of typical innkeepers in the country is falling. And why is this number declining? – We must not only blame legislation. I come from the Lesachtal: 30 kilometres long, 1,500 inhabitants, four main towns. Maria Luggau, the place where I live and my son now runs the inn, has 300 inhabitants. You can believe me: As an innkeeper, I started a father-mother-son operation, having a capable wife, capable children, who now run two larger businesses with almost 60 employees. This too is possible! And how is that possible? – It is possible to stand together and work together, which I sometimes wish for more in politics. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] How can a host, a real host, actually survive outside the country? - Only when the family holds together. We know the business: In the morning at 7 o'clock or 8 o'clock is locked up, in the night at 24 o'clock or at 2 o'clock is locked, turnover is partly 200 €, 300 €, the other time, at celebrations, more. What do I want to say? – If in a typical inn the family does not cover the weak business time – we say: the dead time – and does not have the opportunity to cover the top business, it is not viable. Now we have to look: What can we do for these hosts from the legislation that they are legally able to operate the house in the country outside? The many club houses – the clubs are important, we are a club stable – all have their rights, and most clubs also feel that the collaboration between the club house and host works. But there are many villages where village life only has to play in the club houses and the host has to lock. It's not the legislator's fault. Now we come to a topic that we have had on the table for a long time: voluntary assistance by members of the family association at home in the inn. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Right!]] I have the following request: Now let's finally change that I am a father – I am now a national councillor – when I am at home by chance on the weekend and come to us three buses and I stand behind the counter, as I have done for 30 years, and the beer taps or a few plates are not shown when a control comes, and my son is not punished because the father has helped him for a few hours. [[Complementary of the Abg. Dietrich]] [[Intercessions by the Deputies Walter Rosenkranz and Peter Wurm.]] The same applies to the children. This bureaucracy and these obstacles must be reduced in order to ensure survival to the host in the country! [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and representatives of ÖVP and FPÖ.]] And about smoking: The applications are there. We have already talked about the SPÖ with the tourist speaker and also with the business speaker and we also hope for your agreement to get to grips with this topic once. [[Call the FPÖ:... you don't do anything!]] With regard to smoking: There's an inconsistency, even with the innkeepers. That it is not beneficial to stop smoking at the main table, we know. We know the international conditions, and that is why it is also important that we align ourselves with them. I conclude by saying that we can talk about it for hours, and we also have to put solutions on the table. I am glad that there is a broad understanding of this host culture. I was recently with a colleague in Carinthia, in the Rosental, I went out and saw a table hanging over the entrance door. Do you know what happened on the table? And that really made me thinkful. –: When the Lord God compared the hours of the host and the host with the merit, he turned around and wept bitterly.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e15466	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Haider. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e15484	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Gabriel Obernosterer, I have just given the order to pour into the form of an application everything you just said about the application rules. We will be the next Tourism Committee on 10 October. It's on June. It's on June. I promise. Then you can show how serious you really are on this topic! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Obernoster: Do you doubt me?]] But I fear that it will be the same as it was in the past: The word is broken. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The word is broken: That is clearly the motto of this Federal Government when it comes to the burden on the tourism industry in the course of this reform, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I quote the Minister for Finance: “I can’t imagine that VAT will be changed in the accommodation.” In December he calmed the tourism industry; in March everything was different. [[Abg. Hauser: There was the choice between them!]] And to the ÖVP: The word is broken. – I just looked at your homepage: It is still insisting that there will be no increase in VAT in the accommodation. The ÖVP still has this on its homepage! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The Hoteliervereinigung presented a study last week for which it has calculated the consequences of this improper increase in VAT on accommodation, which will be the consequences. For 200 billion more revenue for the budget, red and black risk 180 million loss of value added and almost 3,000 jobs less. [[Abg. Jewel beater: 200 billion?]] 3 000 unemployed people in tourism are in favour of the budget and the loss of value. This is almost as counterproductive as this inconceivable sparkling wine, which also costs more than it even brings. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I hope that there will really be a rethinking in this regard. The word is broken. – Second issue: Extension of depreciation period. The tourism strategy of the Minister of Economic Affairs and Vice-Chancellors has already been demonstrated here today, which in 2011 has had a great record written in, it has to be adapted to the actual life span – the term of use. What does this federal government do with this reform? – The depreciation period will be extended! This is anti-investment, and that is again less value-added in this country. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The Hoteliervereinigung has also calculated this again: This again costs a few hundred jobs, i.e. a counterproductive reform. And I wish you, ladies and gentlemen on the government bank behind me, that you really have to go into a 33-year-old fully written sauna when you go to a wellness hotel! Then you will be aware of the measures you are looking at to the economy, especially the tourism industry. The word is broken: Thirdly, the issue of smoking ban. We have a regulation, the hosts have relied on it. You believed there was legal certainty in this country. - Well, that's where they fooled! 100 million were placed in the sand and are not compensated. And here again, we know what the effects will be. We know from Bavaria: 30 percent decline in sales once in the first year. Ten thousand lost jobs in Bavaria. In North Rhine-Westphalia: In the first nine months following the entry into force of the ban on smoking, 6 percent of all establishments have locked up. In Austria, these are 2 000 to 3 000 restaurants! They create unemployed people with these measures, they destroy economic existences. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I'm really calling you to think about it! We are still in the assessment phase, and by July you can take back these completely counterproductive and unnecessary loads. Otherwise, the hostess will be right to hold the posters at the host demonstrations, where they insist: Black and red are the innkeeper's death. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] So that the ÖVP can't punish me lies, I'll give you the opportunity to do what you write on your homepage. So I'm giving you the opportunity to get rid of the basket with VAT and to live up to what's on your own website. I would therefore like to make the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e15603	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e15754	Next speaker: Mr Köchl. I'll set you 8 minutes of speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e15772	Dear ladies! Dear gentlemen! Appreciated spectators on the gallery and in front of the televisions! I am sure that if you had been here in Parliament in 1976, Mr Roman Haider, you would have pleaded against the belting obligation just as you would today against some other changes. So it's always a matter of time. At that time, 1976 and 1984, one has argued about the belt lying in the car, and today it is a matter of course. [[Abg. Deimek:... tax a matter of course?]] I would like to go back to the register debate, to the registers obligation, where I already find one amazement today: When it comes to measures to combat fraud, who is against it? – The Freedom Party, the Stronach team is against it. So the debate on the registration obligation, as it is currently taking place, alienates me. But it also strengthens me, because the louder the protest here, the more necessary is the introduction. In fact, there are only two questions: Do we really create the taxes and taxes already provided for, or do we increase taxes? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] I'm against a tax increase. Thus, the approach, which is currently the legal basis, is also consistently implemented, only makes sense and will ultimately really do something under the rule. Thus, our support is the requirement to register. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I've called some hostess today. They have said that they can live with it, but they do not wish to have an internet connection, as is the case in Croatia, for example. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] I would like to say this: If, in a few years' time, the next considerations continue to be that everything is online and everything is directly connected to the financial office, then that would go too far. But this is the case at present only in Croatia, and eleven other countries have implemented a registration bank obligation quite reasonably. Mr Bundeskanzler, you have already quoted Mr Attila Dogudan today, also in connection with the registration obligation. I would like to ask you to consider more precisely who you are quoting in the future, because this Mr Attila Dogudan has just noticed – and there must be his own SPÖ trade unions crying out loud –: I'm just saying "Henry on the train", employment forms, even in tourism, with train staff, with Hungarian conditions, with 500 € net. [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Abg. Peter Worm]] About personal leasing contracts, this Attila Dogudan managed the whole with 500 € net. So that is not our opinion, and I do not want to support these quotations either. [[Congratulation with the Greens as well as with representatives of the FPÖ.]] Mr. Obernosterer, yes, I'll give you a hand. On the question of cooperation in the family business, we agree that we have just discussed this with Georg Willi, our tourist speaker. In this regard, we would like to sit down and settle aside some of the shocks on the question of facilitating cooperation in the family operation. There, of course, the Greens are there! There's a wound point you've met, and we've been talking about it more often. That's what our support is. In the context of the registers, lump sum convictions are always mentioned. I would like to raise the opposite question: What does it look like when it comes to watches in a farm when it comes to recording working hours? – That’s not what anyone is talking about package convictions! So you should leave the church in the village and not draw these comparisons. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] So many hosts are actually in favour of this register, because they believe that there is fair competition and that fair competition must be ensured, and that is why we should also address other issues relating to tourism. I am currently aware that the Stronach team in Burgenland is looking for posters, the direction of “border density”, “more police”, “more police controls”, and that’s actually the opposite of what you would like, because you need a host culture, you need a culture where people like to come to the country where people like to come to the inn. You have – Mr Ertlschweiger is just being posterted throughout Burgenland – rather a defensive position, which is also economically counterproductive. I can remind you that the quota, the possibilities of the red and white red card will not be exhausted! There is an urgent need for action here, because workers can't be used in housing establishments, but of course also in the hostess, because the legislator is creating too strict shackles. So here would be an starting point, and no “borders close”, “more police controls”, “law and order”, as it is currently being put on land by the Stronach team in Burgenland. [[Abg. Hagen: They have never broken in with you!]] I believe that there is an additional need to invest in other areas. For example, I am deeply convinced that an additional prosecutor will bring millions of extra income. So the state could invest a lot more and there would be a lot more possible. If we are talking about transparency here, then, I think, it should not only apply unilaterally, so not only to the small ones with the register fund, but also to the state as a whole should implement more transparency, carry more transparency to the outside. Now there are some topics that I would like to take a short look at, as far as the innkeepers are concerned, as far as the innkeepers are concerned. Let us begin with the chamber apparatus, where there are still some possibilities for facilitating trade, but also with the Chamber of Commerce, where we have ongoing discussions on basic conditions. The basic 2 levy, i.e. the burden on the economy, amounts to 308 million in Austria. We have also prepared a proposal here to gradually reduce it. Or: Of course, it makes sense to enforce simplified procedures for the administration of luggage, of course it makes sense to simplify the rules of commerce. And we should also focus much more on putting on the big ones, on the banks, so that something like the hypo does not repeat once again. Finally, we all know that there is a reason why we now need measures to get the finances under control. This is actually because some of the great ones have failed, even under the leadership of the Freedom Party. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e15857	Next is Mr. Klubobmann Mag. Dr. Strolz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e15875	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Estimated government members! Ladies and gentlemen! [[The speaker places a model of a surveillance camera next to the speaker's desk.]] Estimated citizens on the visitor gallery here, on the screens at home, on the computer or on TV! We are negotiating a urgent request here with a collection of various sub-topics, among which are very important topics, as I mean, many topics that are currently being debated by entrepreneurs, especially in the gastronomy and hotel industry. Mr Bundeskanzler, I have not yet met any entrepreneur in this country who said: Yes, I feel confirmed by this tax reform. I feel encouraged to create jobs. – I haven't met them yet! [[Congratulations with NEOS and Team Stronach.]] [[Abg. Peter Wurm: Me neither!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Darabos.]] However, I met people from the tourism sector who said – and you can read it – that some have also been out in the newspaper: No, I'm not going to make this investment, 30 million € et cetera. Why? – Because I can’t believe that I’m going into additional million credits now and I’m taking on a collection of additional taxes, because it’s hard for the children to “float” when I hand it over to them. Now, one of them is not as serious as it is. It could be said that from 10 to 13 percent of turnover tax, they will probably stand out. If the maximum basis of assessment gets a little bit cut up, they will probably stand out. The capital income tax they will probably bear. – Yes, but if you take the collectionsurium together, then of course it’s a stress wave that just puts entrepreneurship on the wall, and that at a time when we’ve had the highest unemployment for 60 years. And she continues to gallop: For Christmas half a million people, Mr. Federal Chancellor – half a million people! – to sit unemployed under the Christmas tree. The next year will be another tens of thousands, and so it will continue over the next few years. – And these are the completely false signals. In addition – and therefore the surveillance camera here – put the entrepreneur, the entrepreneur in many areas under general suspicion, and not only the entrepreneur and the entrepreneur, but also with what you are doing, of course, also every citizen and every citizen. [[Abg. Darabos: NEOS for tax evaders!]] And the whole brutale, Mr Darabos – I have to film you immediately – is: Give me your wallet, please! I want to see what you got in there? [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Which bills? What did your shoes cost, Mr. Darabos? [[Abg. Darabos: I pay my shoes!]] Which dating portal do you belong to? – I want to know! Every stranger should know! Where were you last on vacation? When do you take up how much money? When to Come You go home at night on Saturday, on Sunday? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Darabos.]] Do you like to go to the casino or not? – All of this will be easy to ask about in the future when it comes to the ideas of ÖVP and SPÖ, and I think that is immense! [[Abg. Darabos: Legal tax payments!]] Now we have brought five or five and a half years behind us since the nationalization of the Hypo Alpe-Adria. This was put in for us because, among other things, ÖVP, SPÖ, of course also voted FPÖ for liabilities in billions. Five years after the hypo-notification, we still cannot understand the liabilities of the federal states! That is, the state says, the top politicians say: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no! We are two and a half years after Salzburg, where €1.5 billion has been speculated – half of the national budget. If you don't know where it's going at more than half your annual income, you'll get a guardian! [[in the direction of audience gallery]] But no, the top politicians of ÖVP and SPÖ were unable to implement uniform financial rules two and a half years after the Salzburg financial scandal. They don't want that! The state walls at every corner where it is about transparency, but we want you to pull down the pants, install this camera in every living room – in every living room! [[Congratulations with NEOS and Team Stronach]] That's improper! They want to take an insight into accounts – and that the greens go with it is immense for me – without a judicial decision. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] And now don't say, Yeah, we're gonna do some security officer. – I'm holding on to how it happened in Germany. They have introduced consultation in non-judicial accounts in 2005. In 2005, estimated citizens, 8 700 accounts were opened in Germany. Then it exploded from year to year. Last year it was almost 30 times the number: 240 000 accounts were opened in Germany without a judicial decision. And that's waiting for us. This camera in every living room, in every corporate location, and on the other hand, we will defend ourselves. [[the speaker shall keep the model of the surveillance camera up to date]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Darabos.]] That, dear Green, is also a paint must test. If you're here to make the top-mountain holder for the two-thirds majority in this matter, I don't understand the world anymore. [[Congratulations with NEOS and Team Stronach.]] Peter Pilz turns out in the early days and is here on civil rights fighters, and then you get the two-thirds majority! Again: In Germany, an increase of 8,700 cases to 230,000 cases occurred within ten years. The rule of law should be able to open accounts, but only with judicial decision. We are free citizens of a free country, and I will fight for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e16014	The next item is Mrs Schenk's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e16032	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Values Members of the Federal Government! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! I congratulated Mr Strolz on his speech when he went down. He has raised many important and right points, and I can only support you and I am entirely of your opinion. I am not the opinion of the SPÖ, and I would like to sum up how I see the current performance of the SPÖ, which is weak, weaker, SPÖ, both as regards what Mr Chancellor has answered to this urgent request today, and as regards the speeches which have so far come from the SPÖ Members. We know from the past that some SPÖ members of the sensory reading are not powerful. Mr Matznetter has also shown this today. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] And I am allowed to quote from the study, and I quote correctly and read it correctly at this point. I can not only read meaningfully, but also read correctly. This study shows, ladies and gentlemen, that 53 percent of the Styrian hoteliers and gastronists oppose a general ban on smoking and maintain the current regime. - Point one. Point two: 43 percent of the Styrian hoteliers and gastronomy fear sales loss due to the general ban on smoking. Point three: 49 per cent of the Styrian hoteliers and gastronomy are against a registration bank obligation. Point four: 46 per cent of the Styrian hoteliers and gastronomy feel criminalized by the actions of the financial police, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: 44 percent not!]] [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] – You can read this out here, and if you can read meaningfully, you can also deal with this study accordingly. But you, or some of you, should not only be able to read meaningfully, but also not...
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e16074	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to take a little measure in your expression. You're talking again.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e16092	I know how to choose my way of expression. We are here in Parliament, and I think everyone should be free to choose their words. And if we...
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e16110	Ladies and gentlemen, this is of course possible. If you only make this up as an accusation, I would draw your attention to the fact that we have also agreed that the dignity and reputation of the House should not be violated by the choice of words. I'm just trying to stick to the use of the house. I think that is possible in this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e16135	I would ask you not to bring me to my speaking time. Obviously, the parties do not have such a good culture of conversation with their national leaders. ==References====External links== April this year said to the ban on smoking: “If I were host, I would feel like a little bit.” 100 million € have had to invest the host in the conversion – we’ve already heard it – and now everything should be different again. This money was almost thrown out of the window. Another statement by your head of state, Niessl, I can tell you in which he speaks of “great errors” in counter-financing, referring to the registration and VAT increase in the tourism sector. Perhaps you should take part in discussions and then inform us of the results here. I'd be very curious about it. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I would now like to focus briefly on the important content and, above all, on the proposed ban on smoking, which was announced and is to come in 2018. We have already heard that the innkeepers have invested €100 million in the renovation and now everything is to be different again. There are no proposals for many problems that can be expected when this ban on smoking comes. What does it look like when the smokers go to the door to smoke? There are problems with noise pollution. In this area, there have already been some developments in Paris, some of which have had a negative impact on local opening times, because there have been predicaments that have ultimately been made on the back of the host. This can happen with us in Austria. Furthermore, what happens to the discarded cigarette chickens is a problem. The cost of disposal is increased, and to whom are these charged? – The host and then the consumer as well! Another financial burden, which will be borne by the host, is the purchase costs and, on the other hand, the energy costs for the so-called heating swamble. If you put out these heating swabs in the months in which you have to turn them on, this is an additional monthly burden of around €5,000 for the host. How can this be done by an innkeeper today, ladies and gentlemen? These proposals leave much more questions open than they solve. They do not mean no improvement for the host and consumers, nor do they carry on. The policy, ladies and gentlemen, must act and at last create business-friendly frameworks, and not give more and more constraints to entrepreneurs, the host community, and more and more intensifications and more criminalisation. It won't last. People also go to the street: I was at the demonstration in front of Parliament. There is not only this study, the insurrection of the host, but I would also recommend you to read newspapers. To that end, I refer to the “standard” where it can be read that many actors feel threatened in their existence. This is particularly true of the performer. The market dealers, the people who go through the area with the children's carousels, are severely affected. I would like to know and get a real answer, what you say to these people and how you deal with their problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e16190	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Kuzdas. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e16208	Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens and here at the gallery! Ladies and gentlemen, does anyone here in the hall believe that we are holding together to be illiterate, to win votes or to live up to the dignity of the house? - I don't think so. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kitzmüller: Woe!]] Mr Strolz, you have discussed important issues, in fact. I am not quite sure, however, whether you have always been on the subject or whether they have not missed it a little. However, the way in which the application is made is at least, let us say it politely, remarkablely. I think it's like colleague Willi: I would have rather expected the Minister of Finance or the Minister of Economic Affairs to be here, but the Federal Chancellor too would like to come to the House and speak and answer. In reality, the aim of the application is to halt the counter-financing of the tax reform. The tax reform is under review. A €5 billion discharge for 6.7 million was the aim of the tax reform, and we succeeded. It covers 4.4 million workers and employees and 2.3 million pensioners. But if the Stronach team wants to eliminate this counter-financing and tip the tax reform, I say: They don't want to relieve people. I'm gonna hold on to it, too. The Federal Government is not putting every entrepreneur under general suspicion, but it is simply about protecting the honest entrepreneurs. It is about creating fair competition with fair rules under the same conditions. That's why it's about tax justice and tax unfairness. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And if the NEOS, colleague Strolz, thinks that we need nothing to check, then you may be the protectors of tax evasion. [[Abg. Stroll: We already need, but on judicial decision!]] [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Judgment!]] I don't think so. I have to explain the approach – I have listened to Mrs. Dietrich quite closely –: The host will perish because of the register? [[Abg. Peter Worm: No, no, no!]] Then I don't understand the business model, because she says in the next sentence, the host is honest. Then I wonder: What changes for the honest host if he has a register? - Nothing! [[Abg. Peter Wurm: You will never understand!]] Only one cannot be, ladies and gentlemen: Tax fraud and tax reduction must not become a success model in this Republic, because it cannot be the only workers who pay taxes and everyone else do so at the Minister of Finance. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Stroll.]] [[Abg. Stroll: But only with judicial decision!]] [[Abg. Peter Wurm: You will never understand!]] If, in the request of the Stronach team, the speech is that this government is reform-resistant, I may briefly recall the following: the implementation of health reform; Health insurance funds have been put on healthy legs, despite the fact that, as we all know, since 2008, a hundred thousand additional jobs have been created through business packages; Youth training guarantee – Best practice in Europe; in the field of education: New secondary school, and what many didn't think, even the central matura worked at first start. Austria is number one in the EU in passenger transport; the ÖBB are economically healthy and successful; the ASFINAG invests over a billion in the renovation and expansion of the transport routes – apart from the second tax relief that comes now: It was €3 billion in 2009, €5 billion it will be in 2016. The Federal Chancellor, also to be mentioned here, is the fighter for the financial transaction tax, which is an essential contribution to greater tax justice. Martin Schulz, President of the EU Parliament, said that if there is an inventor of the financial transaction tax, he is called Werner Faymann. And further with the reforms: Carinthian Local Directory Conflict Resolved; Administrative jurisdiction. – These are just some of the highlights, the remaining ones cannot be counted in this short time. [[Abg. Peter Worm: “Highlights!”]] So I think the proposal has offered important issues, but the way in which they were presented leaves them to be desired. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e16360	The next item is Mrs Schittenhelm. I'll set you five minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e16378	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Estimated Minister of State! Mrs. State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The title of this application is a little too much for me: “If the host dies, the village dies.” – I very much hope that neither the host nor the host dies, I personally wish them a long and above all a healthy life. That is very, very important and important. But the fact is, that's right – much of what has been said here today is right – that the burden on entrepreneurs has become more and more in recent years. This also applies to the host, especially in rural areas. [[Demonstrative applause with the Stronach team.]] However, we have already heard from Mr Obernoster that the so-called host, as we know and love him, is not what he once was. There are hardly any so-called family farms, which are also the heart of the hostess. We have received more and more red tape in recent years. And now you could already ask what that is about. Are we, the politicians, so presumptuous? What is it about? I believe that we must be quite honest here, also say that the citizens have simply become more demanding. They demand more quality, they demand sustainable production, organic production, it has to be transparent, and they also take into account the companies in production, especially the innkeepers, especially when it comes to food. What has been mentioned today alone? When I think of the Allergensverordnung, which we have introduced with January of this year: The use of 14 allergenic substances must now be informed. I experienced it at the inn on Sunday: It was asked at the side table by a gentleman, which means which letter, why does that mean whether it is inside, whether it is he who tolerates it, whether he knows it and so on. At the age of this Lord, I thought he probably ate it all his life. It is a huge effort for the host, for the cooks, for the staff in general and also associated with costs. But we have done it, and the citizens have also called for it. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: Which citizens have demanded this?! Who asked, Mrs. Colleague?]] Secondly, I'm already looking into it: Years ago, we passed the decision of the Non-Smokers Act only very half-heartedly. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] We did not boldly and consistently discuss this non-smokers protection and then decided to choose a compromise solution, which we know today that it was not optimal. I know a lot of hosts have invested, that has already been said today. But many hosts I know say: Actually, this separation was not so bad, I now use these spaces as extrastoragel if clubs or other groups want to be among themselves. And many, many innkeepers have not invested anything at all – that has to be said. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, personally I am in favour of a general ban on smoking, as soon as possible and not later. However, the host himself also demands this because they want legal certainty. They say: Do it, then I don't always need to ask people to go smoking in the other room as an innkeeper! Then there is a legal basis for these decisions. However, I am not only concerned with the legal certainty of the host, but also with the protection of workers, the protection of waiters. I am also concerned with the protection of family members, the protection of children in these areas, and the protection of consumers when families eat with their children and stay in the gastronomy establishments. Furthermore, we all know about the health-damaging effects of smoking: 70 substances found in tobacco smoke are carcinogenic. In addition to toxic substances such as blue acid, ammonia, benzene and arsen, the radioactive isotope polonium 210 is also contained. I think no one here in the hall would be willing to take these substances voluntarily. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Peter Wurm: The e-cigarette...!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I already understand that the barrel with this one drop of registers has been overrun in the course of the tax reform. I also say: far overestimated and exaggerated, played by many, because 95 percent of entrepreneurs and businessmen have, of course, registered registers. It's about this other 5 percent, which now has to look after, so that not the others are the "snaptests" – no question at all. But we also need a red tape reduction, quite clearly. This has already been said by Mr Haubner. In the context of the reform dialogue, the Federal Government will be represented on 23 March. In June, exactly these conversations lead intensively. [[Complementary of the Abg. Aubauer.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, as a long-term mayor, I can confirm that the Austrian entrepreneurs and therefore also the hostess with great commitment and diligence not only create jobs in the region on the ground, but also contribute significantly to the tax revenue of our country – it has already been said that I only repeat it – but in the communities and small villages is quite simply the inn of the meeting point for the elderly, for the disciples, for associations, for a social relationship that we need more urgently than ever.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e16456	The next item is the speech by Mr Zanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e16475	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! So I've always found the two government parties ÖVP and SPÖ, but I'm getting more and more sspecter, the longer I look at them. [[Cheerfulness and applause at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Obernoster: Well, well, well!]] First, they watch for many years how in this country, Zig thousands of farmers die, especially the ÖVP is looking at it. Tens of thousands of farmers have closed their farms in recent years and died. There are currently a lot of people's schools and hospitals being closed down in Styria, so we have a hospital death, a folk school death, a parish death due to the forced mergers, now the host dies – so where you look, you two parties will always die in a tour somewhere. This seems pretty macaber to me with you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wöginger: These were Court of Auditors proposals!]] How can the people still trust you? So I'm firmly convinced that you're on 31 December. On May 15, in Styria, you will be read by the electorate. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But as someone who admits to smoking a cigarette in a guest house and again quite passionately to a coffee or to a glass of beer, I would like to deal with the issue of smoking ban. It has already been mentioned a bit that there are problems. If this smoking ban is used in the inn, we have two options: Either smoker doesn’t go in at all – and what I watch so much, smokers are actually quite good guests and also ensure appropriate sales in the locals – or if the smokers are allowed to enter and then not smoke, then everyone will go out to the street or anywhere else, and there will certainly be problems in terms of noise pollution when smoking outside. Then the one who lives above the inn is probably bothered by the smoke that pulls up from the bottom. So it will be an exciting and fun time, but only for you, for the host certainly not, and behind it we stand. We say to the innkeepers, yes to our culture, yes to our innhouses, we want to preserve them and make it a little easier for them, because what you do is no longer to look at for years. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But it's still going on. If you plan to do so, you should also be affected by club venues or clubs in which smoking is impossible. These are, in principle, private accommodation! That's what I'm asking myself: What is the state interfering in what is happening in a private space? At the tents: Who else will go to a tent party, please? And you don't know – have you really lost the relationship with the clubs? – that the clubs are now largely financed through the tent festivals, because the public hand may no longer be able to do so, and because the economy – one goes to companies and asks for sponsoring; I am now thinking of the small football clubs – never fails either. Yeah, how's that going, please? You don't think about it at all? So I'm really scared of what you're doing! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] On the protection of workers: Everything right and beautiful! Now, Mrs. Schittenhelm comes and says family members have to be protected. – I am afraid of what the next step will be. If I'm married to someone who doesn't smoke, can I not marry someone like this anymore as a smoker, or can I not smoke at home, in my own four walls? Where are we going? That's not what I imagine, I'm telling you quite honestly. There we will “put up a bite to Bam, ” but certainly! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] On Mr Matznetter's comments – he is not here now, but he has interpreted Mrs Dietrich's statistics! – Ah, smoking will be him, yes, please, it’s okay, let him! [[Abg. Haider: He's smoking!]] But I would like to tell him why the Styrian hostess sees their future in principle positive: because there are country elections on the next Sunday and because in the Styria on 31. May the old system parties be chosen red and black and the innkeepers see a hope, a blue shimmer to which they will also give their voice. You can be sure of that! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And then, at the end, he says still as superlative as it can only be such an old red bean, the woman Dietrich should talk more seriously, instead of a...
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e16573	Mr President, I would also ask you to be moderate in your choice of words. Please continue your speech!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e16591	He says to Mrs Dietrich that she should talk more seriously instead of a host who has locked up because she is no longer being sung there. But I can calm Mr. Matznetter: It is still sung there and in many Styrian innhouses. There is currently a very big hit there, a Gstanzl from a group called ReaZaMix. The beginning of the Gstanzl is: “There’s so much chatter in the world.” – I don’t want to assume that the red and black rulers are meant in federal and country, but I can’t exclude it either. [[Cheerfulness and applause at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Brosz: Cheers!]] [[Call:You were a while in the host]] Cigarette packs now always contain these “wonderful” sayings, how harmful smoking is – in the near future they will probably also be on beer bottles, wine bottles and others – it says: Smoking adds considerable damage to you and your environment. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] That may be, but this government adds much greater damage to our people!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e16648	Next come Mrs. Dr. Mückstein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e16666	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear viewer! The discussion about smoking-free locals is laborious and polarizing, but I think we should all take note that smoking-free gastronomy is no longer a way by. We need clear laws and a reasonable non-smoker protection – this is what it is all about. These are measures for long-term health and disease prevention. These measures will finally end the unworthy Kasperl Theatre with various compromise solutions. I think that's good and important. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Who will benefit from it? – Pregnant women, children, social weak and the employees in the gastronomy. 250,000 people work in gastronomy, including 10,000 apprentices. Half of them do not smoke, these people in particular have the right to a smoke-free gastronomy. You can play out self-determination against health protection – I don't think that makes sense, because you have to take both aspects into account. In this case, it is quite clear that health protection must be a priority. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Shit helmet.]] I now come to the question of why we want to further improve or change the previous regulation. We know that in smoking sites the fine dust load is a cygly higher than in those places where smoking is not done, and we also know that the rules currently in force are simply and simply not complied with. Let us assume that what has long been going on and going on in the EU will also succeed in Austria – so much flexibility, transformability and willingness to change I trust. I think there is actually no reason for such artificial dramatization and for drawing horror scenarios, as we have experienced here today during the afternoon. There will be no mass deaths of locals. [[Abg. Themessl: Of course!]] Serial international studies say that this will not be the case. On the contrary! Consumer behaviour in gastronomy depends primarily on macroeconomic conditions and structural environmental conditions such as good quality of stay. To remember: We have a major health problem in Austria on this issue. 14 000 Austrians die annually from tobacco - associated diseases, 4,000 people from lung cancer, and 1,000 people from passive smoking. They all know – we have said it here several times – that there is a huge problem with young smokers. Already 25 percent of 15-year-olds smoke, the age of entry is low and is between 11 and 13 years old. We want to change that. The Chamber of Commerce says that about €100 million has been invested – that is probably the case. This government cannot really be proud of the consequences of the years of law-worship, which is not a glorious leaf! We would also have meant that the host should be compensated for their investments by early depreciation of the residual book value or by a tax credit where they cannot make a profit. Just as it is currently planned in the new tobacco law novelle, this does not seem to me to be a fair offer for hosts, because the compensation is relatively low. But I am very confident that smoking freedom in the gastronomy will ultimately be an advantage for the host. It creates the same conditions in competition for all and legal certainty. In this context, I am very confident that what we are discussing here in part so emotionally will be a welcome course in ten years and we may only be shaking our mind about the current discussions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e16716	Next, Mr Magistrate. Alm to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e16734	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! A few words about the ban on smoking, which depicts a story of slutting in the legislation. Also the current design is, legitimately speaking, quite sloppy, because if you think a bit about who smokes in the gastronomy, then you will find that this is not the host and not the staff in the gastronomy, but the guests – in the turn of a schilling quote: The source of all smoke is the guest. [[Abg. Brosz: There are also other guests!]] Actually, it is this guest who, as it were, harasss the employees. In the gastronomy we have two contractual relations: a contractual relationship between host and host or host and a contractual relationship between the entrepreneur, the entrepreneur and their employees. [[Abg. Doppler: It won't play anymore! It's where the inns can lock!]] In the ratio of host and employees, one could of course solve this relatively elegantly with the protection of health. However, one has chosen the other way and, so to speak, has planned arbitrary interventions in private agreements. These interventions will trigger an entire horse tail of consequences. So you could have solved this much more elegantly with the same result. It is mainly about legal certainty, as it has often been mentioned. We also have a right to this legal certainty, companies have a right to this legal certainty. That this was not necessarily given by the government side in recent years also proves other examples, I remember the tax-change law, the GmbH Neu, GmbH light and the profit-free amount of last year. There have been developments that have been reversed, where the withdrawal of these developments has been reversed and entrepreneurs have been confusedly backward. There are hardly any useful developments. Mr Ecker has listed a few, for example the employee capital which is now finally coming. We made them a request, and we voted against it, of course. In the course of the tax reform it is now to come, but of course in a scale that is far too low, as well as the additional wage reduction two times 0.1 percent – we remember that was last year. This results in a savings of € 30 per employee per year for the company. This does not create new jobs! The additional wage costs would have to be drastically reduced, Schelling said it himself earlier. – I don’t think of such small changes that don’t bring anything. Something really needs to be done to create jobs. What does it mean to reduce the additional wage costs? – There is also more innovation because it is in the minds of the people who can be hired. Today, companies cannot afford this innovation because they cannot employ people. This also results in and contributes to the fact that, in the international comparison indices, we are increasingly crashing into innovation. What is being done about it? – Relatively little, but not nothing. I would also like to highlight a little praise. There is a brochure of the Ministry of Economic Affairs called “Land of Founders”. [[Keeping a copy of this brochure in height]] There are some measures that are not bad at all. Somewhere on the last pages 40 measures are listed, although they are only very flowery as titles there. There are not yet any draft laws that will help to bring these measures into reality. That's where we want to help a little bit again as a birth aider. My colleague Sepp Schellhorn has already tabled three requests arising from this catalogue of measures. I put in another three applications. The first concerns the creation speed. The EU average for business start-ups is 3.5 days. In Austria, on average, a business start-up takes three times as long, namely 10 days. It's too long. Therefore, our request: [[Quoted print version removed]] The second request concerns innovation. Innovation is also promoted by the open design of it, i.e. the introduction of measures for open innovation. The application is as follows: Motion for a resolution by Mr Nikolaus Alm, colleague and colleagues on '500 days of the Federal Government'. Do something! Open Innovation Strategy develop and implement.” The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Government, in particular the Federal Minister for Science, Research and Economy, is invited to develop an open innovation strategy for Austria and to implement it in cooperation with the relevant departments.” The third request concerns the effectiveness of promotions. Money is there enough, it just isn't used effectively. There too I want to show you a graphic from this brochure. [[The speaker shows a column diagram.]] It is called comparison of investors in the private equity sector between Europe and Austria 2013. In Europe, private equity is on average made available to 5.2 percent by government agencies, and in Austria it is 76.6 percent. You can see that there is a certain rupture here, where you can definitely work on effectiveness. The application is as follows: Motion for a resolution by Mr Nikolaus Alm, colleague and colleagues on '500 days of the Federal Government'. Do something! Promoting Entrepreneurship effectively’ The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Government, in particular the Federal Minister for Science, Research and Economy, is invited to carry out an evaluation of funding for businesses, especially for start-ups, in agreement with the Federal Minister for Finance and the Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology, in order to benefit from existing efficiency and effectiveness potential, and to submit a corresponding ‘funding reform concept’ to the National Council by 31.12.2015.” Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e16814	Mr Magistrate. The motions for resolutions which have just been read are sufficiently supported, properly put in place and are therefore under negotiation. The three applications have the following general wording: [[Resolution]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Resolution]] by Mr Nikolaus Alm, colleague and colleague on ‘500 days of the Federal Government. Do something! Open Innovation Strategy develop and implement.” Introduced in the course of the debate on the urgent question put by Mrs Waltraud Dietrich, colleagues on “Death of the host, the village – SPÖ and ÖVP destroy Austrian cultural heritage” The Federal Government has been in office for 500 days. In the 2013 National Council election campaign, the ÖVP "Detachment of the Economy", while the SPÖ "With Safe Hand for Jobs" was in favour of voters. However, initiatives in economic and employment policy have been manageable since government began in December 2013. It is positive to mention the creation of a legal framework for alternative financing and the reduction of additional labour costs by 0.2 percentage points, though very thin. On the other hand, countless deterioration for the Austrian economic location, such as the tax reform or the two tax-change laws from 2014. A look at key indicators makes clear the negative development of Austria and once again proves that we are building our current prosperity at the expense of the next generations. For example, government debt increased from 16.1 percent to 86 percent of gross domestic product (GDP) between 1974 and 2014. In the same period, not only did the tax and tax rate rise from 35 percent to 45.2 percent, but the unemployment rate also rose enormously from 1.2 percent to 10.5%. Overall, a sobering conclusion emerges in terms of the development of Austria's competitiveness in the international comparison, as there is a clear downward trend. Compared to 2008, the position of Austria has significantly deteriorated in all relevant indices: In the Global Competitiveness Index of the Wold Economic Fourm (WEF) Austria has fallen back to #21 in this period from #14 to #21, in the World Competitiveness Index of the International Institute for Management Development (IMD) even from #14 to #22. A similar picture shows the Global Innovation Index (2008: 15) prepared annually by the World Intellectual Property Organisation (WIPO) together with the Business School INSEAD and Cornell University. Place, 2014: 20. Place) or the Corruption Perceptions Index of Transparency International (2008: 12. Place, 2014: 23. ==References== In the OECD Better Life Index, Austria reached the 14th in the first ranking in 2011. It's all right. But here too we fell back to a place until 2014. In times of record unemployment and stagnant economic growth, it is the duty of a federal government to relieve the economy and create adequate framework conditions for growth and innovation. Then: Enterprises create jobs. A large number of regulations and laws in recent years have been able to prevent this from happening consistently, but ÖVP and SPÖ have known both in the current work programme of the Austrian Federal Government and in the brochure of the Federal Ministry of Science, Research and Economics “Land of Founders” on some urgently necessary and good proposals and reforms that have long been requested by NEOS. However, we find: State policy in the field of party policy. Good ideas deserve support. For example, it is important to support the innovative power of Austria with all its forces. This shows that innovation is increasingly developing at interfaces and in networks, in the context of the networking and digitisation of the economy and society, in the interaction of different knowledge and ideas providers, and no longer in the depths of organisations. This trend in opening up innovation processes in organisations, not least for a small open economy like in Austria, offers enormous opportunities to create a new culture of innovation, thereby greatly increasing the competitiveness of the location and the domestic economy. The Members who have been signed therefore make the following comments: [[Resolution]] The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Government, in particular the Federal Minister for Science, Research and Economy, is invited to develop an open innovation strategy for Austria and to implement it in cooperation with the relevant departments.” [[Resolution]] by Mr Nikolaus Alm, colleague and colleague on ‘500 days of the Federal Government. Do something! Promoting Entrepreneurship effectively’ Introduced in the course of the debate on the urgent question put by Mrs Waltraud Dietrich, colleagues on “Death of the host, the village – SPÖ and ÖVP destroy Austrian cultural heritage” The Federal Government has been in office for 500 days. In the 2013 National Council election campaign, the ÖVP "Detachment of the Economy", while the SPÖ "With Safe Hand for Jobs" was in favour of voters. However, initiatives in economic and employment policy have been manageable since government began in December 2013. It is positive to mention the creation of a legal framework for alternative financing and the reduction of additional labour costs by 0.2 percentage points, though very thin. On the other hand, countless deterioration for the Austrian economic location, such as the tax reform or the two tax-change laws from 2014. A look at key indicators makes clear the negative development of Austria and once again proves that we are building our current prosperity at the expense of the next generations. For example, government debt increased from 16.1 percent to 86 percent of gross domestic product (GDP) between 1974 and 2014. In the same period, not only did the tax and tax rate rise from 35 percent to 45.2 percent, but the unemployment rate also rose enormously from 1.2 percent to 10.5%. Overall, a sobering conclusion emerges in terms of the development of Austria's competitiveness in the international comparison, as there is a clear downward trend. Compared to 2008, the position of Austria has significantly deteriorated in all relevant indices: In the Global Competitiveness Index of the Wold Economic Fourm (WEF) Austria has fallen back from place 14 to place 21 in this period, in the World Competitiveness Index of the International Institute for Management Development (IMD) even from place 14 to place 22. A similar picture shows the Global Innovation Index (2008: 15) prepared annually by the World Intellectual Property Organisation (WIPO) together with the Business School INSEAD and Cornell University. Place, 2014: 20. Place) or the Corruption Perceptions Index of Transparency International (2008: 12. Place, 2014: 23. ==References== In the OECD Better Life Index, Austria reached the 14th in the first ranking in 2011. It's all right. But here too we fell back to a place until 2014. In times of record unemployment and stagnant economic growth, it is the duty of a federal government to relieve the economy and create adequate framework conditions for growth and innovation. Then: Enterprises create jobs. A large number of regulations and laws in recent years have been able to prevent this from happening consistently, but ÖVP and SPÖ have known both in the current work programme of the Austrian Federal Government and in the brochure of the Federal Ministry of Science, Research and Economics “Land of Founders” on some urgently necessary and good proposals and reforms that have long been requested by NEOS. However, we find: State policy in the field of party policy. Good ideas deserve support. For example, we have long called for the modernisation of business promotions, especially for start-ups. A similar claim is now found in the brochure “Land of Founders”, which reads as “Enhancing effectiveness of public funding for all phases of entrepreneurship”. The Members who have been signed therefore make the following comments: [[Resolution]] The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Government, in particular the Federal Minister for Science, Research and Economy, is invited to carry out an evaluation of the funding for businesses, especially for start-ups, in agreement with the Federal Minister for Finance and the Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology, in order to benefit from existing efficiency and effectiveness potential, and to submit a corresponding “funding reform” to the National Council by 31 December 2015.”
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e16982	Next speaker: Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e17000	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen. Dear spectators on the gallery and in front of the televisions! First of all, I should like to allow myself to comment on the President-in-Office of the Council, because I was very disappointed that, when Mr Matznetter was very diffused by Mrs Klubobfrau Dietrich and her request, she did not give a speech, but Mrs Schenk very much interrupted. I believe that the President must be particularly concerned with objectivity. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kuzdas.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! The current discussion concerns me very strongly. When I consider how far away some discussions were from practice, some have said: Well, I called a host. – I don't need to call an innkeeper, because we know a lot of innkeepers. We talk to hosts every day. I would like to know how many Members are here who have received positive feedback in the last three months. Please, I want names, I want addresses! I'd like to visit them. The urgent request is modest: ‘Death of host, the village dies.’ Let's keep spinning, what the consequences are! Then the industry dies, then agriculture dies on site, then the land dies, and then the culture dies. I report from the district city of Klimabundnis-Gemeinde Vöcklabruck. [[Abg. Rädler: weren't you a host, too?]] – Yes, Mr Commissioner! And that's why I know what I'm talking about. That's the difference. You see! Except to bring stupid messages, I know what I'm talking about. And that's what distinguishes us. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] That's exactly this topic, which is too important to be bluffing about it, but that you see the seriousness. I invite you, Mr. Rädler, to take me to Vöcklabruck and then we count the kebab stalls and pizzerias. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wheeler.]] And if you call that culture, it's your culture, but not ours.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e17057	Mr Steinbichler. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank Mr Steinbichler for his excellent speech. This is not appropriate here.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e17075	You can judge it yourself, Mr President. I didn't find anything about intelligence.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e17095	Mr Steinbichler, I give you a call for an order for this improper statement in my direction. MEP Leopold Steinbichler (STRONACH) [[Continue]] I'm sorry! Let us look at the working conditions in these restaurants, Mr Rädler. Let us talk about the facts about how they really are! Let's not beautify anything here! I believe that it will not do anything if the hostess is criminalised here, since the hostesses act as a cultural centre on site. It was a decision of this House at my active time when the fixed-term scheme was changed, unfortunately, was changed. It was useful for an association that an organizer needed the signature of a permanent host to comply with the hygiene provisions in order to comply with the requirements of the blockage period so that someone with a concession would be liable for them. I think it was the colleague Fekter who was famous for the fact that this signature has fallen. These have been exactly the wrong decisions years ago. Today, to criminalize the clubs and say that these are the bad ones, these are the consequences of misconceptions. Ladies and gentlemen, let us take note of this. I brought the example of Vöcklabruck District City. I'm still bringing the example from Aurach to Hungary. With us, four hosts have closed. When I drove to this meeting in the morning, in Linz, the cars were in traffic jam at 6.30 a.m. in the morning, with Vöcklabrucker numbers. Now these people have to commute. What that means when rural areas, as well as the city's city's innkeepers, are diluted when these important small businesses are driven away, when these important jobs are lost to single mothers and then people have to spend hours commuting, I don't want to think about that. What this means when it comes to living time, what this means by costs, miles, environmental pollution, loss of quality of life and loss of time for the family! [[Abg. Wheelers: proposals!]] Ladies and gentlemen, we want to be free to host. We want free citizens. We want free companies. They should decide what according to their economic principles, which according to their personal principles is important for them. I think that's what we call democracy. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and the FPÖ representatives.]] I should therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] We're asking for support. I am allowed to announce today that a very up-to-date contribution will be made to the Quality Seal Act tomorrow, namely that the Food Labelling does not work at all. We really want to move something and not continue – since 2008 – to delay, delay, delay. This is the problem of this government: That is to say, a standstill when one simply does not take up a job, but delays it. We want to move. Today, a colleague asked: What already moved the Stronach team? – Well, for the few months that we are in this House, I believe, we have already brought in and debated very important issues together with the other opposition parties. Unfortunately, they have been postponed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e17168	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Steinbichler is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e17223	Next speaker: Mr Christ. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e17242	Thank you very much, Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! We are dealing with the longest time with seven pages of urgent request from the Stronach team, just one page of it on the topic of smoking, non-smoking zones – and no word on the topic of worker protection. There are over 200 000 people employed in gastronomy, hospitality and accommodation. I myself know some locals, dear Leo, where the barn area is right in the smoker zone, so you can also discuss how intelligent that is. There are, therefore, undoubtedly massive health risks due to passive smoking, and these are especially exposed to the employees and the host, which are partly also non-smokers. This danger – who's wondering? – interested in the Stronach team practically no one and is not mentioned with any word. There are independent studies – and I am allowed to quote a study by the German Cancer Research Centre Heidelberg – which say that the claims that there is massive loss of turnover and that numerous jobs are lost could be rebutted by objective data. Studies have been carried out in Ireland, Scotland and Norway, and in particular in Scotland, it can be demonstrated that within two months of the introduction of the ban on smoking, respiratory problems, throat, nose and eye problems have declined dramatically and, of course, in the health sector, there has been a reduction in follow-up costs. There is a study by the German Cancer Federation, which shows the example of California – I remember: In 1995, the restaurants were declared smoke-free, and in 1998 the bars followed – that more than 245,000 new jobs were created in the ten years following the introduction of these two smoking bans. I believe that this is already proof that jobs are not lost, but there are quite opportunities for it to become more. I can quote the Irish Prime Minister, who said: “I can assure you that in Ireland no one pub had to close due to financial losses due to the smoking ban.” – You can’t discuss that away, that’s it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haider.]] I myself was two months after the introduction of the ban on smoking in Italy, on Elba, and I was excited to see if there would be any problems there. – No local has had to lock up, there has been no complaints at all, everyone has gone smoking in front of the restaurant, and there was no problem at all. Ladies and gentlemen, we in the House have also made the Workers' Protection Act. For businesses, workplaces and offices, we have clearly defined how workers can be protected. The labour inspectorate can become quite angry if one violates it, and this protection has long earned over 200,000 people in the gastronomy. Many more than 60 percent of Austrians, many health professionals and doctors welcome an absolute ban on smoking. Ladies and gentlemen, guests can choose which place to go, but those who are looking for and need a job in the gastronomy have no choice. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is why I would ask: a little less panic, a little less horror, but at least much more protection for employees and more relief for our health system! I also say this in the knowledge and knowledge of many reactions from the host scene – although I am not every day at the inn like Leo Steinbichler, but one time or another – which also support the absolute ban on smoking and actually wanted it much earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e17306	Mrs Abge-ordnete Donk spoke in favour of an actual correction. Ladies and gentlemen, you are aware of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e17327	Mr President. During my speech earlier, I was told by the President because I accused some SPÖ Members of not being able to read meaningfully. In his speech, Member Kristi has now spoken about a urgent question. I'm actually correcting: That's not a urgent request, it's a urgent request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e17368	Mr Dr. Rosenkranz has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e17386	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! First of all, in order to ensure that there is a certain amount of consideration for the other groups, I should like to make a motion for a resolution on the urgency of the application rules for family members in gastronomy establishments. We still have very brightly and brightly in the ears of Mr Obernoster, but I can also quote the 2011 “parliamentary correspondence” according to which Mr Obernoster said in the Tourism Committee that gastronomy companies “have problems with putting family members into special situations, such as churchwork or funerals, or holding an Advent market unbureaucratic”. These are really the problems I hear from many of the gastronomy, even now in the discussion. That is why I should like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We act, and here counts the free mandate, that is, one can implement what one argues here. It can be made very easy: don't sit with our request, but – according to the motto: “Austria must not sit” – jump up and agree joyfully. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There are other things too, and it is unfortunately God in this debate when it came to the dignity of the house, because one has accused one of being more or less intelligent, of being able to read meaningfully or otherwise. I refer to persons of which I do not in principle assume that they are suspected of not being intelligent, and therefore especially the ÖVP Group. In the current debate on the gastronomy, a member of the ÖVP, Hans Scharfetter from Salzburg, says: “We have been promised a discharge, it has become a burden.” – Nothing to add to it! [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] More: Mr. Landeshauptmann Haslauer – who will hopefully have some weight in the ÖVP; I cannot judge it, I am not involved in your board meetings even after the new party statute – believes it must be possible to drop the 13 percent for tourism and stay at the 10 percent. . So I am pleased that in the ÖVP these strong personalities are still getting the upper hand that these unscrupulous measures, which put at risk the economic location of Austria, as we have already heard many times, are being put at risk. Mr Kuzdas was much more honest here, who said that it is only about bringing forward this 5- to 6-billion tax package to reduce small incomes, pensioners, small employees and so on. That's, in itself, the detachment: It is really about financing this tax relief. [[Abg. Kuzdas: Nothing revealing, that was always so said!]] There is tax relief – and there you are looking for counter-financing. And where else can you find something? – There you can look at the last lemons you can still express in Austria, and for this the host is a synonym. Let us not only – in order to say it with a proverb – the church in the village, but let us also let the host in the village, for he belongs to the community just as the Stronach team has written in the Preambel! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and Team Stronach]] Mr Willi said that if you want to milk a cow, you can't do one thing: kill them. But we are on the best way to do this, because, as I have already mentioned, Mr Themessl has said it – tourism as a whole, these are those who cannot say: I transfer my business to the cheaper EU foreign country or entirely from the EU! No, our tourist attractions, the mountains, the landscapes, the ski resort and the lakes are only here. And it's not the big corporations, the chains that can push their profits through the area and direct it worldwide, but it's the small family businesses that can't be gone that must be here. [[Accompaniment with the FPÖ and the Abg. Dietrich.]] When there are statements – also from a study –: We see the future positively!, then I tell you, this host sees it positive because they believe in their own strength, but certainly not in the framework that this Bun-des-Government provides for them. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We liberals in Lower Austria are now making an action. We go under the motto “Wirt leben Heimat” to the hosts in Lower Austria. We will visit 2 500 gastronomy. But I have to say to Mr. Federal Chancellor – who is probably the wrong address for this urgent request, I have read it – that DO & CO is not there; it is an excellent operation, it is an absolute head office, but we have more and other businesses in Lower Austria, which we also visit regularly as a liberal, and there you hear quite different things.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e17476	The motion for a resolution tabled by my colleague, Dr Rosenkranz, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e17528	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e17547	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Estimated members of the Federal Government! Yes, this is a wonderful urgent request that contains a little bit like doners with everything, without sharp points where you can connect. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Donate.]] I would also like to stick to the ban on smoking, which is in line with the surveillance camera that Klubobmann Strolz has set up. It is not only that the ban on smoking for gastronomy companies is coming, but also that the Federal Government has the intention to include associations in this scheme. And this shows again how there is no sense of privacy for people in Austria. [[In the case of NEOS, the members of the FPÖ and the M.A. Dietrich.]] If citizens create a club and this association has a club venue, then they should do and leave whatever they want; if they want to smoke there, they should smoke. [[Abg. Wöginger:... whether it's a public building or not!]] It is not possible to rule in this form without regard to the private autonomy as you would like. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] I suspect that you wanted to prevent a circumvention, so that not someone who has worked as a gastronomy so far, in the form of a club hall, would have avoided smoking, but you could have done it differently if you had linked to the presence of workers. A harmless small association will have no employees in its association site and would not be affected, and once workers are there, we have packed it with the protection of workers, as you would have caught the right ones. But that's not the point, you're going over everything. They are also in an inaccurate way about things that are not meant at all. If e-cigarettes, the so-called steamers, are included in the ban on smoking, you have to ask yourself where there is a health impairment, namely for the people around it. This person hurts itself – to a lesser extent than the tobacco smoker – but it is neither tobacco nor a form of passive smoking, as is the case with tobacco smoking. I would now like to refer to the comments made by Mr Kuzdas, who has shoved in our direction, that we are the protectors of tax evasions, because we are committed to banking secrecy. – I think you have misunderstanded something. What you are planning is access from financial authorities to bank data. Yesterday, in the report, the Minister of Finance said that the Financial Office already had a four-eye principle. I think you underestimate the smallness of rural regions. If you work in the financial office in the forest district, you are likely to know the people who live there and for whom you are professionally responsible. The likelihood of abuse is high to see the temptation to see why the neighbor has gained a new car and how exactly it has happened, and to use it for a process that would not be necessary so legally. This form of ease in dealing with the privacy of people excites us. That's not the question: Tax evasion or not?, but it's about a privacy. It has every person in his account – I'm convinced – transactions that he doesn't want another one of them to know. They were gone longer on Saturday and fixed one more at night in the banker's settlement. You may have transferred the membership contribution to an association that does not need to be known by everyone. It's not everybody's business. It may also be that you have settled an election doctor's bill because you're in treatment somewhere because of a suffering you don't want everyone to know. Depending on the doctor, you can draw very good conclusions from what you may be missing, and you can also draw conclusions from the frequency of your doctor's visits on what you are missing. So, on your bank account, a lot of things are moving about privacy. If I know your account, I can tell you a lot about your life, and that's why these data are protected. So if you get tax evasion right away, this shows that you didn't understand what banking secrecy really was all about.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e17599	The next point is Mr Obernoster. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e17618	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and at home in front of the TV screens! The discussion seems to have brought something to light. There is now a motion for a resolution tabled by the Liberal and Reformist Party, by Mr Rosenkranz, who is certainly well-intentioned but does not deal with the issue. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with representatives of the FPÖ.]] It is not about facilitating the application rules, but about the matter in principle that the closest members of the family – if they are in retirement, in an ordinary employment relationship or in training – can, in exceptional cases, jump into the company at home. Unfortunately, we must reject this request because it does not come to the point. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kitzmüller.]] I hope, however, that we will be able to deal with this issue in the next Tourism Committee and that there will be a unanimous request for it to be submitted to the appropriate minister in the Committee and then dealt with in the Social Ministry. And I hope that this year we will come to a proper conclusion on this issue. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e17663	The next speaker was Mr Wurm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e17681	Mr President. Estimated Federal Chancellor! Appreciate members of the government! I have learned today that the guest house of S & D DO & CO is at Stephansplatz. That was new to me now. But if I understood the Chancellor correctly, that was his reference. Perhaps on the explanation for the Social Democrats: The normal population is not in the DO & CO, but in the normal Beisl around the corner, in the inn, at the subscription of €6, and you should ask what we are talking about today. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Podgorica]] I just wanted to say that once. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and Team Stronach as well as the Abg. Vavrik.]] Then on the topic of smoking: As many untruths – and I can say that, Mr President – as many untruths as have been spread on this issue are no longer going to cow's skin. Again for those who do not know, and because it is always falsely claimed here: Please read, inform yourself! Italy has the same law as we currently have in Austria. If you're going to South Tyrol, you don't need to drive that far, you'll find locals with separate smoking and non-smoking areas! Of course, this is legal in Italy. [[Abg. Wöginger: You didn't want that either!]] The reason why you find this little in Italy is purely climatic: because the investment there makes less sense because you can be out there for ten months. But please don't always tell the population these untruths! I am not talking about the other countries in Europe, the Czech Republic or Germany. These exceptions exist everywhere in Europe, selling Don't ask the Austrians for stupid! That's all I want to do because of the time. The third point – now I turn right to the ÖVP – is: I was in the Chamber of Commerce this morning, Wiedner Hauptstraße. Your own functionals... [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Index fund: Please don't tell businessmen anything wrong! It's not about the register, you know that very well. The entrepreneurs – and I was in the food trade today – do not know that until today. You believe in the Mar, it's about the register. It's about something completely different, tell the entrepreneurs! It's about a chip and the online access of the financial office. That's what it's all about. It's about a software system where everyone needs to change. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] When this comes – and I look at it; I wish it and express entrepreneurship, the economy the thumbs that it does not come – then it looks quite black and dusty for our entrepreneurs. [[Interference of Federal Minister Schelling]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e17749	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We come to a number of votes. First of all, the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Parliament, tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Dietrich, colleagues on “The host dies, the village – SPÖ and ÖVP destroy Austrian cultural heritage”. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to give their approval to this request to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Debates of the European Parliament Enter the lead clause and move forward with good example’. Whoever is for that, please give a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. Debates of the European Parliament Do something! Austria brand – now!” Whoever is for that, please give a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Debates of the European Parliament Do something! implement Austrian standards strategy’. Whoever is for that, please give a sign. – This, in turn, is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Haider, ladies and gentlemen, on the withdrawal of the planned increase in VAT on accommodation. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Alm, colleagues and colleagues on ‘500 days of the Federal Government. Do something! Unbureaucratisation of business.’ Whoever gives this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall also proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Members. Alm, colleagues and colleagues on ‘500 days of the Federal Government. Do something! Open Innovation Strategy develop and implement.” Whoever gives this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Alm, colleagues and colleagues on ‘500 days of the Federal Government. Do something! Promoting Entrepreneurship effectively’. Whoever gives this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We are therefore voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Steinbichler, colleagues, on the introduction of a quality partnership for local gastronomy companies. Whoever gives this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. Finally, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Rosenkranz, colleagues, on the urgency of the application of the rules on family members in gastronomy establishments. Whoever gives this motion for a resolution, I would ask for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. [[17:41:56]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e17908	I shall now take the negotiations on the second. Agenda item again. Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Greiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e17930	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Let me highlight some of the most important points in the Federal Financial Framework Act. It has succeeded in stabilising the structural deficit. It should be 0.5 percent for next year and 0.4 percent of gross domestic product for further years. Of course, the Federal Financial Framework Act is closely linked to the tax reform. What does this mean for the Austrians? – This means that 6.4 million Austrians are relieved of €4.9 billion in total. With the tax reform 2015/16, labour income, i.e. the labour factor, manages to relieve quite decisively. What does that bring to private households? – According to economic researchers, a reduction of between 3 percent and 5 percent is expected. This will increase consumption and demand and will also give impetus to several thousand jobs. How can these positive effects be best managed? – This is possible through a comprehensive tax reform, and I am thinking in future of a stronger taxation of assets and capital. This is possible through further stabilisation of public budgets, coupled with further structural reforms in the area of public administration. In short, as the Minister for Finance has already mentioned, negotiations on financial compensation have begun. This is the distribution of the financial resources between the federal, state and local authorities. We all experience on-site what a community does for citizens every day, and for these tasks the communities actually need the necessary financial resources and a strengthening. Can such far-reaching reforms succeed? How does it look in the federal states? – Yes, they can succeed. Let us look at the Styria, where the reform partners under the leadership of the head of state Franz Voves have managed in the last five years to successfully implement the municipal structural reform. Previously there have been over 500 municipalities, now there are 287. This will also be judged accordingly. Allow me to give you the opinion of the Industrial Union for many opinions; it congratulates the Reform Partnership on the reform of the municipal structure. Quote: “Important step of the Styria towards the future. The winner is the Styrian population.” The reform partnership shown in Styria is an example of a solution-oriented policy that acts sparingly, tightens structures and makes them efficient. I am convinced that this forward-looking model of cooperation will be honoured accordingly by the Steirers in the country election. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e17976	Next, Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e17994	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciated spectators on the gallery and in front of the televisions! I have already talked about the current Federal Financial Framework Act 2016 to 2019 and may say, with regard to the lack of financial compensation among countries, that there would be much more opportunities if the reforms were to be speeded up. Unfortunately, the Federal Chancellor is no longer there, which is very interesting, since the banking secret was addressed. ==References====External links== On 4 April 2013, Federal Chancellor Faymann referred to: ‘Bank secret shall remain intact.’ Minister of Finance, I am interested in the car this morning. Your interview in the “Morgenjournal” is heard, where you have finally confirmed that the banking secret will be done in 2018. While you have mentioned that it will remain mainly and only the criminals will be checked, you have ultimately confirmed its end for 2018. I believe that citizens should be fully informed about this important issue. On this request, and since some times today, the subject of military music has been discussed so devaluatingly. I think military music is an excellent advertising partner and sympathizer of the German army and an important representative on various occasions – whether it be celebrations, celebrations or state visits. And I am happy to remember how in Upper Austria the military music has performed especially to round anniversaries, to great festivals, and what impressive performances of musical nature the military musicians have offered and continue to offer. Together with the great music school system, it is a very important partner of a large number of musical chapels in our country and in the urban area, with more than 18,000 military musicians being trained in addition. From this great military musician pool, which is available, 500 of them became music instructors, and more than 800 took over the leadership of a chapel as chapel master and are active in various chapels as set leaders in leading positions. We are therefore proposing the following: [[Quoted print version removed]] We're asking for support.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e18056	The motion for a resolution, which has just been drawn up by Mr Steinbichler, is sufficiently supported, properly implemented and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e18118	Next speaker: Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e18136	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Values Advisors on the ranks and in front of the televisions! I would rather not say anything about the statements made by my previous speaker – allow me to say that. I think most know why. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Jarolim.]] We have just heard a lot about the tax reform in the course of the whole debate, especially from our colleagues in the 'blue' series. That is why I wonder how Austria would actually stand without hypo-billion debt. We haven't talked about that either. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] If we continue to pursue a policy of stable finances today, only because we have joined forces with the shrapnel that you, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, have left us, despite Lehman and Scheuch Brothers. I can tell you the difference between the traffic lights and the FPÖ functionaries. [[New calls to the FPÖ.]] At least a light goes up to the lights! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If one listens to you in the debates, one sees that you are not so much concerned with the numbers. And I think it's also very good that you leave out the numbers, because as we know from the past, you have relatively great difficulties to distinguish between gross and net. That's why it's just better not to talk about it. Above all, the colleagues at FPÖ know that Austria is a country that is beautiful, diverse and that is worth living – and therefore no panicmakers like you need. This is actually the biggest difference between us: I'm proud of Austria – and you're just talking bad. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] What I've learned in the last few days is that you want to explain to people that these €63,000 that have now been spent on these traffic lights – you can come out here and talk again – were just too expensive. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] If you compare this number, this €63 000, with the disaster you left in Carinthia, then this is a very simple bill: You can make this project traffic lights 301 587 times or install 36,190 476 million traffic lights. Just so much for it. Perhaps there will be another light from the FPÖ. The damage you have done is huge, and it can only be cracked by the fact that you still claim that you had nothing to do with the whole thing. As a tourist speaker, however, I would like to say at this point that I consider very critical the burdens that tourism has to bear. I am pleased, however, that we have now succeeded in achieving at least some relief in the company's handovers. To conclude: The traffic lights, which have always been around, will not narrow the sufferings of the tourism industry, the economy as such. Nevertheless, they are a success. I will continue to work for them in the future, simply because they are a success, an added value and a positive signal, a profit and a sign of diversity. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e18229	Next, Mr Kirchgatterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e18247	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mein Ladies and gentlemen! In this debate, the various levels in the Republic of Austria, namely the Federal Republic of Germany, countries, cities and municipalities, play a key role in how the division takes place. And here we must make sure that solutions are really found to the tasks, namely the best solution for the Austrians. If you can do something best for the population, this should be the rule, the basis of decision and thus bring the state forward accordingly in the next few years. One point where there is no difficulty in competence is development cooperation, which has already been mentioned. The competent Foreign Minister is called upon to implement the Government Convention. It is important, especially in difficult situations internationally, that Austria is also at European level. From the budget hearing, I should like to mention a point that fits in with the debate in plenary. The question is always asked: What does social partnership bring? – In the expert hearing, it became clear that the current economic development will be positively influenced by the good cooperation of the social partners, and this will also be the case in the face of future challenges. This is important for our country and means a strength for our country. To conclude: I understand the problem of the opposition parties. It is very difficult to demand more and more on the one hand in the individual areas, but on the other hand to criticise the level of the budget and to want to reduce it dramatically. It is obviously very, very difficult for the opposition to find its own line, its own concept. I think the population is right if it believes that the opposition should once present a coherent budget concept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e18280	As the last speaker to speak, Mr Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e18299	Mr President. High house! Of course, comparisons can be drawn between other European countries and Austria. I think, compared to other countries, Austria is actually very tangible, is very good and has managed to make a tax reduction and a tax reform in times when the impact of the financial and economic crisis, but at the same time domestic problems such as the Hypo Alpes-Adria, have been a real burden on the budget, according to an Austro-Keynesian model, which is trying to stimulate the economy and contribute to growth and employment security by increasing the number of people in the stock exchange and thus also more in purchasing power. This was mainly achieved with this huge package of over €5 billion high discharge. [[Unrest in the meeting room.]] In comparison, in the British election campaign, the Tories and David Cameron made promises such as: Price brake for the train tickets, €11 billion more annually for the public health service, abolition of inheritance tax for houses worth less than €1.4 million, minimum wage exempt, parents of 3 and 4 years old children are to be paid 30 hours of care per week, and many other points. That's Great Britain! And when you asked Minister of Finance Osborne how to finance it, this Minister of Finance said he didn't know that, because of course, they don't understand that they are effectively fighting tax evasion, tax evasion, whether this is in the Cayman Islands or on the many other islands that play a role in tax evasion or tax evasion. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fekter.]] You can then draw comparisons. . I want to praise you, Mrs. former Minister of Finance, and say that we have actually made a good budgetary policy, which has still made it possible to achieve scope for action, whether this is about self-financing – it is expected that by increasing purchasing power a boost to the economy – and about the fight against tax fraud – that is the difference with the UK – or the fight against tax avoidance. Savings in support and administration, one point... [[Abg. Strache: I think that's right! We can come to the vote!]] – I am in the middle of it and can now stop so hard. I really want to work this out thoroughly, so that we really have every point in it. [[Abg. That's right!]] Of course, the savings in support and management must be subject to a reforestation. You have to look at this more precisely, so that you can really get results. [[Abg. Strache: (playing on the noise level in the session hall) Are you responsible for the hustle and bustle?]] Another point that plays a crucial role in this is the removal of tax exemptions. It is not known to me that this was done in the UK. I compare this because it's so clearly distinguishable – do you want to get out too? [[Abg. Strache: I think the speaking time is over!]] – Models are: on the one hand, the liberal British economy with its very limited state understanding and, on the other hand, Austrian understanding. Then there are capital taxes, which are of course also intended to make a non-exhaustible contribution. Yes, Mrs. Ex-Finanzminister Fekter, you can look back on it very proudly, and also the current Minister for Finance Schelling has made an insignificant contribution so that there are real results and one really progresses. In any case, this is something I consider very, very positive. What I can't understand is if some of the opposition's statements – perhaps misunderstandings – are so interpretable that no instruments should be made available to effectively combat tax evasion. So anyone who says law and order, whether it be in the mutilated form in the financial field, must, of course, ensure that the given instruments can really be made an effective contribution. This means, for example, a relaxation in banking secrecy, but not only that, even the registration fee obligation is intended to contribute to this. I think I have now worked out my entire programme in this probably important comparison with other European countries. Britain was an example because I believe that it is most obvious where the differences are. I think you can be positive about this federal financial framework law, and you can agree with it. This also ensures that the appropriate framework is given to plan in the resorts and to set up the corresponding reforms in order to achieve the savings that are possible in this area. – Thank you for the attention and for the next time: one bit more!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e18396	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e18414	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to make four brief comments. Firstly, development cooperation. I have just looked at the data, because today it has been said that we should promote investment projects in other countries, that people there have the right opportunities, and I can tell you that the Oesterreichische Control Bank's subsidiary, located in my home, has currently taken over €902 million for development projects around the world. We can also increase this amount if we wish to, we can also increase it to €1.5 billion as part of the decision-making process. However, as far as I am concerned today, this performance is not recognised in the statistics of the ODA. I think we would all be well advised to consider together how appropriate these projects are and try to get that included in the statistics. I don't think we should be artificially valued. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On behalf of the honourable Member, who has referred to the subject of registers: [[in the direction of the Abg. Peter Worm]] Of course, no provision is made for the chip to be set as a possibility. It is only a proof to provide a certificate that the register is manipulative. Which system is applied, everyone can decide for himself, but the checkout must have a certificate. Whether that's the chip or a software certification, that doesn't matter. There is no obligation to do that with the chip; I just wanted to make that clear. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: No one has to change it?- Oh, my God!]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It only needs to be confirmed that the software is manipulative. This is, by the way, a regulation that has been in place for years, but is not complied with. You know that, too, Mr Schellhorn nods. That's right, there's already this requirement. To Mr Loacker: We cannot, according to the present proposal, hold a single account until a test procedure has been initiated. Not even the account register, in which nothing is available, may be called. Randomly, arbitraryly, we cannot see accounts, but only in the context of a test procedure. We cannot, as you claim, now call on private medical visits in almost all accounts. Fourth point: Bank secret. – Of course, we have made an international commitment to ensure the international exchange of data from 2017 – with the date of 2018. Austria is obliged to take over any account of Foreigners in Austria are kept to report to the foreign authority whether income was generated on it; vice versa Austrians abroad. It would not be compatible for us to call one and not the other. This is only to clarify these points that have been raised.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e18470	Mr Hagen has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e18488	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Do you know the word “pharmacy ”? I need to look in this direction... [[towards ÖVP]] [[Call: Order call! Ordinary Call]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e18515	Mr President, before you organize a point of order, I should like to draw your attention to the fact that you do not continue as I fear.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e18536	Mr President, with all appreciation: You're afraid wrong. I just asked one question. I would like to address the following – and now I am speaking to those rulers who will make this request: ÖVP and SPÖ intend to put in place a motion for a resolution on military music, and I do not think it is necessary now – how should I say? – crawl out behind the oven to know what to do with it. Yesterday, a delegation of many musical chapels demonstrated before Parliament, including the chairman of military music friends Austria, Mr. Wolfram Baldauf, whom I know very well, who lives in my neighboring community. It was demonstrated so that the military music chapels are not, as intended, reduced to 20 men, but the orchestra size of 47 men is preserved. This would mean a cost framework of € 1.9 million a year, which we spend on culture that we spend on cultural care, for our federal army, for representation purposes. Ladies and gentlemen! The FPÖ and we from the Stronach team have submitted applications to maintain the orchestra size in order to be able to play reasonablely, and not to reduce it from 47 to 20 musicians. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and FPÖ]] A vote will be taken on this matter. Yesterday are some of here, mainly of this half, with instruments... [[towards ÖVP]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] - I'm not allowed to say anything, I'll get an order call if I say ÖVP now. Yesterday, some of them have stood as parliament and have played along and demonstrated themselves in this crowd and signaled that they are against these cuts in the military music sector. Today, the government fractions are making a quick request here – I had a copy without a name, now hand-written names have been written on it, spitted with spelling errors – and want to work to ensure that the military music continues. They do not write, however, that it should remain in the usual size of the orchestra, but just as the Minister of State for Defence wants, with only 20 men. That, ladies and gentlemen, is understandable, I do not want to use any other word. You are ashamed to make such a request! You have to agree, otherwise you will spread it differently in the media, but I can only recommend that you also agree with the requests of the Freeman and the Stronach team when voting naturally! Have you, my rulers, the courage to do so yesterday! That would be hand-beating quality. . I will look at this, Mr. Sieber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e18604	Now comes Mr Mag. Nice to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e18622	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen at home! High house! I've got to say, By someone who has changed the party at least twice – or more often – we do not know that, but it will have been the case more often – I do not allow myself to blame “Pharyseism”! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] – Mr Steinbichler, welcome to the club, you are closest! Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is very well done today, as you all – from FPÖ to Team Stronach and I don't know who else – want to work for military music. Fact, Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, from the beginning of this whole debate, we have been working massively for the military music of Austria! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ.]] It's no secret that some in this house have always expressed themselves in a disspicuous and disparaging way about Austrian military music, that some of them have made fun of military music. We have never done this, we have always said the military music is the best advertising player of the Austrian federal army, the military music fulfils a bridge function between the population and the German army and military music is probably a better promoter for the German army than so many listings that are switched on. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Apart from that, I can also remind you that in the framework of military music, an education will be carried out by the Austrian Federal Army, which is looking for the same. This will also make a valuable contribution to the preservation of popular culture in our country. – Our sincere thanks to the military music of Austria! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, for this reason and because the debate is the same as it is running, and because we see that some technical assessments are different in reality, I should like to make the following request on behalf of Mr Schönegger and Mr Pendl: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would like to thank you and wish you all the time in the house.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e18700	The motion for a resolution, which has just been read by Mr Schönegger, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e18749	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e18767	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Well, fear sweat already erased from the forehead? [[towards ÖVP]] An attempt to deal with the threat of a nominal vote with such a request? Ladies and gentlemen, I would also have expected the Stronach team to cut a little more. You say only because it might then represent ÖVP and SPÖ differently in the media, you have to agree. I have to tell you one thing: If I read, the Federal Minister for Defence and Sport is asked to “as well” – probably means: as to correct this small spelling or typing error – to continue to use in the past for the preservation of Austrian military music, then this is a dangerous threat if one agrees to this, just as he has been working so far, as he has so far used for our federal army as a whole. [[Abg. A threat!]] [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Strache: This is a dangerous threat!]] We have called for another nameable vote on the Garnison sites, which are now in front of the closure; Radetzky-Kaserne in Horn, for example, or Tamsweg in Salzburg, Freistadt and other barracks in Austria that are affected. I know the reports from the regional newspapers on how ÖVP Members say: That's impossible, that can't be closed! Perhaps Mr Cap will be able to make a longer contribution to the debate, just as before, to which I would also like to congratulate him. I have to say that as much “Content” as in this speech was not to be heard in this House for a very long time. [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] But be careful, Mr Cap – I always have to say it – be careful, irony, otherwise at the end even say you are praised by the FPÖ. That's what we're trying to do. All of you, Members of the districts whose garrisons are affected, still have the opportunity to realize themselves by name. High house! We saw it yesterday – the bubble music associations were here and have been working for the preservation – and it is really like this: Military music is a cultural property in Austria! Above all, the growth of wind music in Austria is required and promoted by the military chapels accordingly. This leads to the Blasmusikkapelle in the village to the top orchestras in Austria. There you can really not only talk about folk education or customs, no, that goes into the highest musical professionalism, which is offered there. That's why there's only one possibility: This Minister, who consistently wants to ruin the Austrian federal army and obviously ruin it, to place it in the barriers and to agree to the national votes. Everything else doesn't believe you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e18836	Proposal for a Council Regulation (EEC) amending Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 on the common organization of the market in sheepmeat and goatmeat Mr. Klubobmann Mag. Arbitrator. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e18855	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Keeping up a note from the speaker's desk:]] Since this morning, since his speech, Mr Amon's speech has been on the speaker's desk. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] - Yes, it's also the name on it. The second and most important thing is: We have been discussing for a long time – including in the preparation of the government programme – how Austria can improve its low development aid contribution in the international comparison, but also for the economic strength of our country in the future. It is, of course, so – and this must be said – that a development aid contribution cannot now be adjusted from today to tomorrow. This is also a matter of negotiations between the relevant Ministry of Finance – because it is almost responsible for all financial matters – and the relevant ministry, how to develop a level plan. Since we have now discussed this more often here in the house and the Federal Financial Framework Act also offers the opportunity to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I think that this is a good request, and I therefore ask you to agree to this request and also to the request tabled earlier by Mr Schönegger.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e18916	Mr Klubobmann's report. The motion for a resolution tabled by arbitration is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e18968	I can only say to Mr Amon, Mr Klubobmann Schieder, who has been left behind, that I have not used it again after any of the following speakers. [[General hustle and bustle.]] [[Abg. Bitch: Who knows!]] – My perception; I was not constantly in the hall. No one has made any mention of this. The debate is closed. I do not recognise the rapporteur's wish for a final word. That is why we are going into the extensive voting process. I'm asking for your precious attention. vote on the draft law in 616 of the supplements. There is a motion for an amendment tabled by Mr Windbüchler-Souschill, colleagues and a request for a nameable vote on them. There is also a desire for a separate vote by Mr Podgorschek, Mr Mag. Mr Rossmann and a request for a separate vote by Dr. Nachbaur. First of all, I will vote on the parts concerned by the motion for a resolution, and then on the parts affected by the request for a separate vote, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. The representatives of Windbüchler-Souschill, colleagues and others have tabled an amendment concerning § 1 and § 2 Subdivision 12. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. I am therefore, of course, doing so. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the voting paper they find in their desks into the urn provided. I am seeking the approval of those Members who do not give their consent to this amendment, “Yes” voting papers, those who do not give him their consent to put “No” voting papers into the urn. I now ask the rapporteur, Mr Lueger, to begin the call for name; Mr Gahr will replace them later. - Please, Mrs. Writer.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e19022	The vote will end. I interrupt the session for a few minutes so that the staff of the House can take the vote under the supervision of the authors. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e19060	Ladies and gentlemen! I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. Members cast: 168; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 31, ‘No’ votes: 137. The present amendment is therefore rejected. According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Alm, Aslan; Brosz, Brunner; Glavischig-Piesczek; Hable; cook, kogler, korun; Light pickers, loackers; Maurer, Meinl-Reisinger, Moser, Mückstein, Musiol; Pillow, Pirklhuber, Pock; Rossmann; Scherak, Schmid Julian, Schwentner, Steinhauser, Strolz; Vavrik; Walser, Willi, Windbühler-Sushill; Zinggl. Members voted with ‘No’: Amon, Anger, Aubauer, Auer, Bacher Walter, Becher Ruth, Berlakovich, Bösch, Buchmayr, Bures; Cap; Darmann, Deimek, Diesner-Wais, Dietrich, Doppler, perforation; Ecker, Ehmann, Ertlschweiger, Eßl; Fichtinger Klaus Uwe, Fekter, Fichtinger Angela, Franz, Fuchs; Gahr, Gerstl, Gessl-Ranftl, Greiner Karin, Grillitsch, Groiß, Grossmann, Gusenbauer-Jäger; Hackl Heinz-Peter, Hafenecker, Hagen, Haider, Hakel Elisabeth, Hammer Michael, Hanger Andreas, Haubner, Hauser, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Himmelbauer, Höbart, Hofinger Manfred, Höfinger Johann, Holzinger, Huainigg, Hübner; Jank, Jannach, Jarolim; Karl, Karlsböck, Kassinger, Katzian, Keck, Kirchgatterer, Kitzmüller, Knes, Königsberger-Ludwig, Kopf, Krainer Kai Jan, Krist, Kucharovich, Kucher, Kuntzl, Kuzdas; Lausch, Lintl, Lipitsch, Lopatka, Lueger Angela, Lugar Robert; Matznetter, Mayer, Mölzer, Muchitsch, Mühlberghuber, Muttonen; Rebaur Kathrin, Neubauer Werner; Obernosterer, Ottenschlager; Pendl, Pfurtscheller, Plessl, Podgorschek, Preiner, Prince; Rädler, Rasinger, Rauch Johannes, Rauch Walter, Riemer, Rosenkranz Barbara, Rosenkranz Walter; Schellenbacher, Schenk, Schimanek, Schimanek, Schittenhelm, Schmid Gerhard, jewelry beater, Schönegger, Schopf, Schultes, Sieber Norbert, Singer Johann, Steger, Steinacker, Steinbichler, Strache, Strasser; Tamandl, Themessl, Girls, By; sub-railers; Vetter, Vogl; Refusal torfer, Wenninger, Wimmer, Winter, tiny, Wittmann, Wevinger, Worm Gisela, Worm Peter; Yılmaz; Zakostelsky, singer.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e19232	We shall continue in the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to take the seats. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of an acceptable sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on § 2 Subdivision 2 of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who advocate a positive sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall also proceed to a separate vote on § 4 Subdivision 02 of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever is for that, please give a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. Whoever is for that, please give a sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are also in third reading for this draft law to have a similar sign. - That's the majority. The draft law was therefore adopted at third reading. vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Podgorschek, Mr Colle and Mr Colle on the preservation of military music despite the planned budgetary savings. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of Since this request has been made by 20 Members, I shall vote in favour. In turn, I would like to ask those Members who vote in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Podgorsek, Mr President, to vote in favour of the 'Yes' vote, those who vote against 'No' vote. I would ask Mrs Lueger to begin with the name call; Mr. Abge-orderten Gahr I am seeking to replace them later on. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e19329	The vote will end. I interrupt the session for a few minutes, so that the officials responsible for the House can take the vote under the supervision of the authors. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e19367	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote: Members cast: 163; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 43, No votes: 120. The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Podgorschek, ladies and gentlemen is therefore rejected. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Anger; Bösch; Darmann, Deimek, Dietrich, Doppler, Ertlschweiger; Fuchs; Hackl Heinz-Peter, Hafenecker, Hagen, Haider, Hauser, Höbart, Hübner; Jannach; Karlsböck, Kassager, Kitzmüller; Lausch, Lintl, Lugar Robert; Mölzer, Mühlberghuber; Rebaur Kathrin, Neubauer Werner; Podgorschek; smoke Walter, Riemer, Rosary Barbara, Rosary Walter; Schellenbacher, Schenk, Schimanek, Schmid Gerhard, Steger, Steinbichler, Strache; themesl; Refusal torphere, winter, worm Peter; Singer. Members voted with ‘No’: Alm, Amon, Aslan, Aubauer, Auer, Bacher Walter, Becher Ruth, Berlakovich, Brosz, Brunner, Buchmayr, Bures; Cap; Diesner-Wais, strike-through; Ecker, Ehmann, Eßl; Fichtinger Klaus Uwe, Fekter, Fichtinger Angela; Gahr, Gerstl, Gessl-Ranftl, Glavischnig-Piesczek, Greiner Karin, Grillitsch, Groiß, Grossmann, Gusenbauer-Jäger; Hable, Hakel Elisabeth, Hammer Michael, Hanger Andreas, Haubner, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Himmelbauer, Hofinger Manfred, Höfinger Johann, Holzinger, Huainigg; Jank, Jarolim; Karl, Katzian, Keck, Kirchgatterer, Knes, Köchl, Kogler, Königsberger-Ludwig, Kof, Korun, Krainer Kai Jan, Kucharovich, Kucher, Kuzdas; Light pickers, Lipitsch, Loacker, Lopatka, Lueger Angela; Matznetter, Maurer, Mayer, Meinl-Risinger, Moser, Muchitsch, Mückstein, Musiol, Muttonen; Obernosterer, Ottenschlager; Pendl, Pfurtscheller, Pirklhuber, Plessl, Pock, Preiner, Prince; Rädler, Rasinger, Rauch Johannes, Rossmann; Schelhorn, Scherak, Schieder, Schittenhelm, Schmid Julian, Schmid Julian, Schmier, Schönegger, Schopf, Schultes, Schwentner, Sieber Norbert; Singer Johann, Steinacker, Steinhauser, Strasser, Strolz; Tumandl, daughters, door; sub-railers; Vavrik, Vogl; Walser, Wenninger, Willi, Wimmer, Windbüchler-Sushill, tiny, Wittmann, Wöinger, Worm Gisela; Yılmaz; Zakostelsky, Zinggl.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e19551	Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing in the voting process. Please go back to the places! Debates of the European Parliament Fuchs, ladies and gentlemen, on the immediate stop to barracks closures. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. In turn, I would like to ask those Members who vote in favour of the Fuchs, ladies and gentlemen motion for a resolution to vote in favour of the 'Yes' vote, those who vote against 'No' vote. I should like to ask Mrs Lueger once again to start calling for a name; Mr Gahr will replace them later.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e19601	The vote will end. In turn, I call on the House's staff to carry out the voting, under the supervision of the Correspondents, and to interrupt the meeting for that purpose.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e19635	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote: Members cast: 157 of which ‘Yes’ votes: 42, No votes: 115. The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Fuchs, ladies and gentlemen, therefore, is rejected. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Anger; Bösch; Darmann, Deimek, Dietrich, Doppler, Ertlschweiger; Franz, Fuchs; Hackl Heinz-Peter, Hafenecker, Hagen, Haider, Hauser, Höbart, Hübner; Jannach; Karlsböck, Kassager, Kitzmüller; Lausch, Lintl, Lugar Robert; Mölzer, Mühlberghuber; Neubauer Werner; Podgorschek; smoke Walter, Riemer, Rosary Barbara, Rosary Walter; Schellenbacher, Schenk, Schimanek, Schmid Gerhard, Steinbichler, Strache; themesl; Refusal torphere, winter, worm Peter; Singer. Members voted with ‘No’: Alm, Amon, Aslan, Aubauer, Auer, Bacher Walter, Becher Ruth, Berlakovich, Brosz, Brunner, Buchmayr, Bures; Cap; throughput; Ecker, Ehmann; Fichtinger Klaus Uwe, Fekter, Fichtinger Angela; Gahr, Gerstl, Gessl-Ranftl, Glavischnig-Piesczek, Greiner Karin, Grossmann, Gusenbauer-Jäger; Hable, Hakel Elisabeth, Hammer Michael, Hanger Andreas, Haubner, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Himmelbauer, Hofinger Manfred, Höfinger Johann, Holzinger, Huainigg; Jarolim; Karl, Katzian, Keck, Kirchgatterer, Knes, Köchl, Kogler, Königsberger-Ludwig, Kof, Korun, Krainer Kai Jan, Krist, Kucharovich, Kucher, Kuntzl, Kuzdas; Light pickers, Lipitsch, Loacker, Lopatka, Lueger Angela; Matznetter, Maurer, Mayer, Meinl-Risinger, Moser, Muchitsch, Mückstein, Musiol, Muttonen; Obernosterer, Ottenschlager; Pendl, Pfurtscheller, Pirklhuber, Plessl, Pock, Preiner, Prince; Rädler, Rasinger, Rauch Johannes, Rossmann; Schelhorn, Scherak, Schieder, Schmid Julian, Schmid Julian, Schmid Julian, Schmid Julian, Schopf, Schultes, Schwentner, Sieber Norbert, Singer Johann, Steinacker, Steinhauser, Strasser, Strollz; Tumandl, daughters, door; sub-railers; Vavrik, Vogl; Walser, Wenninger, Willi, Wimmer, Windbüchler-Sushill, tiny, Wittmann, Wöinger, Worm Gisela; Yılmaz; Zakostelsky, Zinggl.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e19816	Ladies and gentlemen! I must point out once again that I did not think it necessary before the vote, but it has already happened again that two votes were taken by one Member. Yeah, I know they stick together from time to time in the package that's in the drawers. That does, I suppose, no one is intentional. But in the future, I ask you to keep in mind that only one vote per voter will be in the urn. We are continuing in the voting process. Vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Steinbichler, colleagues, on the preservation of military music. Whoever is for that, please give a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. The vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Schönegger, Mr Pendl, Mr De Keersmaeker, on Austrian military music. Whoever is for that, please give a sign. - That's the majority. The application is therefore accepted. (E 79.) Debates of the European Parliament Whoever is for that, please give a sign. - That's the majority. The application is therefore accepted. (E 80.) [[18:51:07]] 3rd. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (560 e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, with which the Alternative Investment Fund Manager Act, the Banking Act, the Stock Exchange Act 1989, the E-Money Act 2010, the Financial Conglomerate Act, the Investment Fund Act 2011, the Company Tax Act 1988, the National Bank Act 1984, the Pensions Act, the Takeover Act, the Insurance Supervision Act 2016, the Securities Supervision Act 2007 and the Payment Services Act are amended (Accounting Change Act 2015 – RE-BG 2015) (589 d.B.) 4. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (562 e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Act, with which the Federal Law on the effectiveness of Regulation (EU) No. 909/2014 to improve securities deliveries and settlements in the European Union and through CSD, as well as amending Directives 98/26/EC and 2014/65/EU and Regulation (EU) No. 236/2012 (Central Supervisory Act - ZvVG) as well as the Financial Market Supervisory Act, the Banking Act, the Securities Supervision Act 2007, the Stock Exchange Act 1989, the Central Counterparty Voluntary Act, the Deposit Act, the Stock Act, the Finality Act and the Capital Market Act are amended (590 d.b.) 5. Point Report by the Financial Committee on Amendment 1094/A(E) by Mrs Elmar Podgorschek, ladies and gentlemen, on the improvement of the activities of the State Commissioners (591 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e19917	We now come to points 3 to 5 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. I do not recognise the rapporteur's wish for reporting. That is why we are going into the debate. First word received from Mr Dr. Fuchs. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e19941	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Finance! High house! Values Advisors! I am referring to item 3 on the 2015 Accounting Change Act and, in particular, to the National Bank Act. In addition to the reference adjustments required by the amendments to the Corporate Code, in some areas the National Bank Act will implement further exceptions from the accounting rules provided for in the UGB, which according to the Federal Government are justified by the special position of the Austrian National Bank as the central bank of the Republic of Austria. In this context, according to the Government template, the provisions of §§ 225 para. 3 and 6, 227, 237 para. 1 Z 5 UGB will no longer apply to the Oesterreichische Nationalbank. These provisions concern, in particular, the compulsory breakdown of the time limits of claims and liabilities in the annual accounts of the Austrian National Bank. However, this breakdown in the annual accounts makes sense for two reasons in particular: First: The statement of claims with a residual maturity of more than one year is intended to serve as an insight into the financial situation within the meaning of the general standard with the corresponding provision for liabilities. At that time, the legislator intended to make a clearer presentation of liquidity inflows or of liquidity flows in the annual accounts. Secondly, By indicating the amount of liabilities with a residual maturity of more than five years or more than one year, a total structuring of liabilities is possible according to their short, medium and long-term maturity. The provisions in question are not only the rules of the German Government, as stated in the explanations on the Government's proposal, but also the rules governing the information function of the annual accounts. Not only do creditors have an interest in the annual accounts of the Austrian National Bank, but many other persons and institutions, including the Parliament of the Republic of Austria. For reasons of transparency in particular, the derogations provided for by the Federal Government for the OeNB should therefore be rejected. What applies to every capital company in Austria must also apply to the Austrian National Bank. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There can be no exceptions, and I therefore make the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e20019	The amendment that Mr Fuchs has just tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e20109	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Zakostelsky. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e20127	Mr President. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen who remain in the hall! Today's proposals of the Financial Committee cover three topics. However, I would like to start with the third one, namely the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Podgorschek, ladies and gentlemen, and, finally, the two first points raised. We have already rejected Mr Podgorschek's request in the Financial Committee, as I believe, for good reason. Perhaps some pre-remark on this: It may be a pity that this amendment – with all appreciation – has only come right now and not a few years ago, that is, at a time when we might have been able to prevent some progress towards hypo in Carinthia. [[Abg. Podgorschek: That's where you shouldn't have turned off the Banking Investigation Committee!]] It is also my concern, however, to point out to my colleagues – but that it is rather a joke to say – that, contrary to the citation in their motion for a resolution, where they write of § 75 BWG, the question of the state commissioners is in fact addressed in § 76 BWG. But that's just by the way. Let's stay honest! From my point of view – and this is the content you are addressing – it cannot be the task of the state commissioners to interfere in economic and business matters, namely business matters, because at the latest then the question would have to be asked: Who is actually responsible for the management? There must be a clear separation here: on the one hand, the entrepreneurship responsibility, on the other hand the control. However, from my point of view, it cannot be the challenge of suddenly expanding the powers or tasks of the State Commissioners – from a certain point of view of action. Rather, this is a coherent overall system of control. And this overall system – and I believe that we are in agreement – has to take care of investor protection and risk mitigation on the one hand and, on the other hand, of course also to ensure the functioning of the institutions, but all of this, from the point of view of efficiency and effectiveness, that is, of course, also in the sense of cost limitation. In my view, therefore, in Austria, we do not need a singular extension of individual control instruments, but, as mentioned earlier, an overall throw. I can remind you that until 2002, the Ministry of Finance was in charge. As of 2002, the FMA came to the train, and since 2007 it has been the FMA and the OeNB, admittedly with a well-defined division of tasks. We must not forget the tasks that the State Commissioners, the auditors, the internal revision, the risk management and the Supervisory Board and those of the company itself have. And it is also to be remembered that since last year 2014 the ECB's supervisory competence has also been affected by the banking union, of course only for the large institutions, of which 6 plus 1 have been affected in Austria. Under the rule: What does this mean for our citizens? – There is an enormous multi-liability, and this costs, on the one hand, of course, time and money, and on the other – and that is, I believe, the decisive one, because the efficiency of supervision must be in the foreground – efficiency is not really increased. These most overlapping control systems, in order not to say no longer need to be coordinated, are in fact in need of a reorganisation. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] With this, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say: It must stay the church in the village. The essential task must be for credit institutions to be able to focus on their core competence, namely on the one hand to manage and install customer funds carefully and on the other hand to provide the economy and private individuals with the corresponding loans. In this sense, the cost burden should also be reduced, as the costs are, of course, always cost to our citizens. Therefore, the appeal, instead of a further island solution, as the present proposal would suggest, would be a comprehensive reform. Our Federal Minister has already addressed it at the last financial committee meeting. I believe that even here in the House, it will be useful for us to deal with this matter precisely in the sense of efficient but at the same time slim banking supervision. In my view, therefore, the motion for a resolution that has been put forward must be clearly rejected. Now to the two other points raised shortly, as the Lamperl also shines again and it is late enough. On the one hand, this is about the implementation of the European Accounting Directive and, on the other hand, about the EU's famous Central Supervisory Voluntary Law - a tongue breaker - which is about more efficient control of supply and also billing in the field of securities. On these points I would like to sum up briefly that I consider the present legislative texts to be very balanced. I believe that the Federal Government has succeeded in doing so in the sense of efficiency and in submitting a request for it. – Thank you very much for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e20165	Mrs Lichtenecker came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e20183	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! With regard to the application for strengthening of the State Commissioners: We experience a strange mobilization of the life spirits of ÖVP and SPÖ in this request, namely, to reject it, instead of focusing on preventing the life-spirits from blackening the files delivered to the Hypo-Research Committee. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That, ladies and gentlemen, is not understandable. And, frankly, if this is a wise step, be it really. What is the final point of this proposal? – It is about upgrading the state commissioners, and of course this has a story. At the meetings of the Hypo-Research Committee, we have had the state commissioners on the ground, we have also had the auditors, the auditors, the department heads, the department heads in the committee, and it becomes more and more clear how the failure has happened, how inefficiency has occurred and why the control has not interfered. Yes, of course, the state commissioners are a component of control and supervision. They are sent by the Minister of Finance to each bank, which has over a billion balance sheet amount, so to speak, to be the eye and ear of the Republic. We have also experienced that in part – I emphasize: in part – some critical reports on risk management, reporting and so on have been delivered, but the question was, of course, that: What happened? And that is another story, namely why the appropriate measures have not been put in place, why the supervision of the financial market has not responded accordingly. But one thing became clear: As it was and as it is, it is inefficient if the right hand does not know what the left hand is doing. And we have seen this in a number of cases, such as: Although the State Commissioners are given the task of examining the Austrian National Bank, they never see a test result. How should they be able to play their role in the bank? This is a serious failure, which is also a small building block. So, of course, it makes sense to think about how you can change that. For all the points in need of improvement, this proposal is the first step to be taken, which one can support and where one can see how to make improvements. [[Abg. Podgorschek: As more was he not thought!]] Nevertheless, it is clear: We need an overall strategy. It is about responsible handling of funds in banks, but of course also with taxpayers' money. We must not forget one thing: We have a financial scandal in Salzburg. We have a swap scandal in Linz. We have Franken speculations in the municipalities. So: It is also a matter of finding appropriate rules. But this will not only affect the banks, because it is a challenge of responsible handling of funds. That is why, not only in the area of banks, but of course also in the area of public funds, because this is ultimately the citizen's tax money, responsiblely dealing with it, strengthening control and supervision and ensuring that such scandals do not happen again. In this respect, it is important that it is now possible and possible to work as well as possible in the Hypo-Research Committee. There is, of course, also an appeal to the Minister for Finance that the files are delivered properly, transparently and without being blackened, so that the Committee can actually make good progress in its information work.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e20224	I call Mr Jarolim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e20242	Mr President. Federal Minister! The matter itself, which we are talking about here, is a harmonisation matter which, I believe, is totally incontrovertible and therefore to be implemented. As regards the FPÖ's motion for a resolution, apart from the fact that, in my view, incorrect terms of section make it impossible to deal with business rules in accordance with my view, it is not possible to say: Of course you need to improve the control systems, no question at all, this is a clear task! This is also reflected in the results of the Committee of Inquiry. Therefore, discussions are also being held on how best to carry out this harmoniously in such a way that efficiency in the respective areas is best, without great overlaps. And of course you like to jump up and say, I would like to take this idea for myself, like the FPÖ, and I would like to make a request which may well be meant. But well meant is often the opposite of what you want. I think that, as has already been said, we must take a good look at: What can you do best? How can you do it and then implement it? But: The fact that the current state is certainly capable of improving is not at all a question! We will continue to deal with this in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e20273	I call Mr Hable. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e20291	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! High house! I would also like to say a few words on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Podgorschek and Mr Fuchs on the improvement of the activities of the State Commissioners. The request is fine. Of course, one can turn on one screw or another and improve the supervision in terms of how it works. However, I would like to add a few additional comments here, because I do not want to leave the impression that the reason for the system failure in the area of Hypo Alpe-Adria and therefore the solution path alone is that the supervision is reorganized, that it is sufficient that we have a new supervisory reform, which would solve the problem. This is definitely not the case, because the supervisory bodies and also the state commissioners had everything to stop the disaster of Hypo Alpe-Adria in order to prevent it. They had the knowledge on the one hand and on the other they had the instruments in their hand to intervene. This is also the case with the state commissioners. The state commissioners were sitting in the Supervisory Board meetings – and if they were not inside, they were themselves guilty. [[Abg. Kogler: Also in the credit committee!]] The state commissioners were also inside the credit committee meetings. That is to say, the entire loan of the Hypo Alpe-Adria could also be seen live or at least read the reports. The knowledge was present – if only you wanted. The instrument for intervention was also available. The state commissioners, of course, had a small role in the investigation committee, they said, well, they were only those who also wrote a few reports. That's wrong! Firstly, it is expressly contained in the Banking Act, and secondly, we have also excavated from the flood of documents in the Hypo-Research Committee this document, namely the Financial Market Supervision Directive for the activities of the State Commissioners. [[the speaker shall keep a document up to date]] That is to say, the FMA has given its state commissioners, who have been sitting inside the bank on the spot, very expressly on the way, which is their main task and what they should do. This is clearly defined here, already in the Preamble. I quote: In particular, the function of the State Commissioner should be to identify any risk status of an institution in a timely manner and to be able to act in the form of an opposition without delay. - Quote. They have this right of opposition under the Banking Act. And what do you think the state commissioners have used this right of opposition in all these years? [[Abg. Moser: One time?]] Zero times! They have never used their right of opposition at the financial disaster Hypo Alpe-Adria. This is not only for the state commissioners, but, of course, also for the supervision of the financial market, so to speak, the top banking authority, which has also sent the public commissioners to the bank. They also had the knowledge and also had the instruments to intervene in time. We already know from the 2001 OeNB Test Reports that everything has stood in there. All that was written in the test reports after that was ultimately a repetition, because already in the 2001 test report everything was inside: the problematic lending, the involvement of offshore companies, the non-existent risk management. The disaster was scheduled to be read in 2001 – if you only wanted to look and read. [[Abg. Kogler: Right!]] And, of course, financial market supervision also had the instruments to intervene. It is also a must that financial market supervision has only been implemented after reforms after the financial crisis. Financial market supervision had three strong instruments – and still has them – in accordance with the Banking Act back then, at that time – 2001, 2002 and so on, namely: first, if the Banking Act is violated to impose penalties; if it does not benefit from calling the Executive Directors; and if that does not help the Bank to withdraw the license. What do you think about how often the financial market supervision has made use of these three instruments in all these years – although their organs have known everything when they have read it? - Zero times. [[Abg. Moser: Never again!]] They did not even make use of these instruments that they all had. [[Abg. Kogler: Bravo!]] [[Abg. Stroll: This is a tragedy!]] Therefore, I do not let ignorance or missing instruments be the explanation. That can't have been the reason. Therefore, the answer should not be sought in a reform of banking supervision. Yeah, you can screw around a little bit, sure, but that's not the cause of the problem, nor the solution to the future. The big question is – and this is to be answered by parliamentary control here in the house –: Why, even though one had the knowledge and the instruments, has one done nothing for years? That is the crucial question! We have to answer them, and we will answer them. This is the task and mission of the Hypo-Research Committee. Next week we will continue, and we will continue to work on it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e20414	Mr Ing. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party to - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e20433	It's about the state commissioners, and I'm different from my previous speaker. The State Commissioners were there to check in order to pretend supervision. The state commissioners have been sent, and the entire construction of state commissioners is built in such a way that it cannot make supervision – and should not. If you don't believe this, you just need to look more closely: A state commissioner can only do this by the way. It is explicitly stated that a State Commissioner must have a primary profession. Then he does it in his free time. Now you can imagine how much work this is, when you know God where to go, and that two, three times a week, then you have to study files – but everything has to happen in leisure time. And for this job, the State Commissioner gets 216 € per month. If the State Commissioner wants to look more closely, he can't do that, because at €216 a month, and that's still quite in his spare time, he can't look at it – because you have to imagine that every credit application would have to be re-watered, he would have to look into the documents. Since 2006, we have known that this is not at all willing to do so from the answer to a request from the Greens. Thankfully, the Greens asked why the State Commissioner deserved so little. At the time, Mr Grasser said that this is all right, because we do not want to see it exactly, but the State Commissioner sits there and takes up a mood report from what he perceives and sends it on. The funny thing about this is that no one is interested in all that is being sent. We asked the OeNB and FMA Committee if they had ever spoken to the state commissioners. There were tests that were started because there were suspect moments. And that's where we asked: Did you talk to the state commissioners who are on the ground? – The answer was: No, we don't. – But why not? – That was not necessary. It was not necessary, therefore, because, of course, the FMA and the OeNB know that the state commissioners are being sent to pretend supervision. It's about the ministry having an ear in the bank to see if it's going to be politically clear. It's not about supervision. Just as it is generally not a matter of supervision, if OeNB and FMA sometimes do not look at exactly when something is done that is against the political interests. And those who don't believe it just need to look at the exchange of letters between Haider and Grasser when the FMA finally does what it should have done, namely to intervene. [[Abg. Kogler: One time!]] Exactly: One step in. Then there is a letter from Mr. Haider to Mr. Grasser, and see: Shortly thereafter, the FMA board of directors will be called away from the Ministry of Finance. That's how it works in this Republic! In this Republic, it is not a matter of supervision, but it is a matter of ensuring that the political interests can be enforced, that the politicians – in this case the politicians in Carinthia, there are also enough examples in Lower Austria and in other federal states – can do what they like to do, namely to buy voters. With all the blessings they then finance through the bank, the voters are bought. That's why it's going to be, and that's what the bank's supposed to finance. And if the evil FMA or the evil OeNB wants to do a stroke through the bill, there are threats, and then it reacts quickly and with a huge threat scene the supervision is pewed back. That's all we've experienced, it's all happened. That's what it's all about! That is why, Mr Minister, you are now in demand: If you want state commissioners who actually move something in the bank – there are three supervisory authorities: OeNB, FMA and the authorities in the broadest sense, the state commissioners who are on the ground – if those who are on the ground can really look inside, then it is up to you to fix it. That's not a side job! This is not a job you can do at €216 a month. That's where you have to look, and that takes time! The funny thing is that the bank pays for it anyway. The FMA then sends the bank an extra € 216 an invoice. That's where you've got to get on your head! This does not in any case pay the taxpayer, but the controlled institution. There you could send a state commissioner who makes it his main job and really looks and really sees what is going on and goes in. But that was not wanted, according to Grasser. You now have the opportunity to improve this: If you value the state commissioners or remove them – because just as they are currently set up, they deceive supervision, and that is not reasonable to the taxpayer.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e20483	Mr Podgorschek. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e20502	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The Hypo-Research Committee has had a very difficult start. At the beginning we had to deal more with blackness and then with the consequences of blackness, with solvent loads. At the end of the day, we came to the point where we were allowed to question the Commissioners of State under half the normal circumstances, although the files had not yet been prepared up to 100 percent, or it was still not as much as possible to go into detail. But one thing we have certainly already seen in the first surveys: that the function of the State Commissioner or – in this case it was only ladies – the State Commissioner is a toothless instrument that makes the examinations seem questionable in this form. We have found that the most important information has been kept away from them: You have not even received test reports. They did not receive any specific orders from the FMA, and they were actually informed unilaterally only by the respective bank board, but not by the FMA, which should have been controlled. One of the ladies, even in the committee, said that she considered this veto right or right of opposition to be a dead law. This is already an alarm sign for me, so I say that there is an urgent need for action and, above all, a need for change. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the Member States.]] There are consequences and it is at least a signal in the form of a motion for a resolution, and that is just a first step. If one reads this motion for a resolution, then one also sees that it has been kept very superficial and very vaguely formulated, simply as a fact that this is a declaration of will by Parliament. I am fully aware that this is a matter of innumerable laws – it has already been formulated in the Committee – which are to be changed, and of course, it is only one end of the committee that is needed to formulate a comprehensive legislative matter. But especially if the whole of Causa is still in all memory, it is important for Parliament to take the first peg and lay a first foundation here, because otherwise the impression could arise that we do not want this reform at all or, in reality, we do not want to find out what is behind all these events at Hypo Alpe-Adria. Of course, one could have reformed the work of the State Secretary much earlier – yes, State Commissioners; thank you, Mrs Colleague; one notes that she is careful – already in 2007, when it was also obvious and the whole thing is broken up latently. [[Abg. Tamandl: State Commissioners!]] But you turned off the Banking Investigation Committee in 2007. [[Abg. Kogler: Yes!]] One could have saved a lot if one had already continued this investigation committee at that time! I repeat once again what we are calling for – only with the other Members who have not been in committee, who know what we have called for at the end of the day, how harmless this motion for a resolution is: “The Federal Government and, in particular, the competent Federal Minister for Finance are invited to ensure that no general meetings, general meetings and other general meetings, meetings of the Supervisory Board, audit committees and decision-making committees of the Supervisory Board may take place without the presence of the State Commissioner or its alternate.” – Yes, this is a harmless demand that no committee should take place without the State Commissioners, so that we or with it the FMA can get the information. ‘2. ==References====External links== its alternate shall be given full access to the file.’; – Well, if not the State Commissioner, who else? – And that “3. the extension of the current reporting obligation of the State Commissioner, or its alternate to BMF and FMA’. So that would be nothing but a principle decision by Parliament, as mentioned earlier, as the first building block for a reorganisation of banking supervision. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I see it as the task of this committee to ensure that in the future such errors as they happened – from supervision of the operational board to policy – can no longer happen and this system will be terminated. We owe this to the taxpayer at the end of the day. Our task for the future is also to ensure that the taxpayer can recover as much money as possible. And there we are, hopefully, a sense with the Minister of State, because he is responsible for the finances of our state. That is why I hope to see another sign from Parliament for renewal – so that at least this committee will not be in the hands of history, and that this Causa Hypo Alpe-Adria will once again be unexplained.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e20562	Mrs Tamandl has the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e20580	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Finance! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, of course, Mr Podgorschek: This is a criminal case that costs the taxpayers billions, who, under the blue leadership of his day in Carinthia under the head of state, under the responsibility of a government under which the head of state Haider has happened, must no longer happen! That's not a question at all! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Podgorschek: Where? Where did the head of state operationally intervene in the bank's business?]] Mr. Landeshuptmann was also a financial referee and has been the leader of the equipment here. Mr Landeshuptmann has proved that, and this has gradually come out of the investigation committee, into the bank. We will also clarify the political responsibility of all those who have ruled into the bank in this committee of inquiry. And why the Committee of Inquiry has started so slowly or why the Committee of Inquiry has not gotten under way more quickly: Yes, because the opposition did not always agree on load lists of persons or other things. [[Abg. You son of a bitch!]] [[Abg. Kogler: That's incredible!]] [[Abg. Podgorschek: unlikely!]] [[Abg. Kogler: No genius!]] As the blacks have also been addressed today: If, in the presence of the Minister for Finance, you are talking about the fact that the blackmail is so bad and that we should finally do something about it then it is only to say: [[Abg. Podgorschek: Did I accuse the Minister of Finance?! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no! No accusation to the Minister of Finance!]] Mr. Finanzminister was the first – that is almost 14 days ago – who has appealed to the Constitutional Court because he is also interested in the fact that this matter is finally coming out of the table and that we have finally come to the investigation work without having to talk about the blackmails constantly. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] The Minister of Finance here is the one who immediately said: Yes, please do something! – We have taken a insistence decision – by the way, because of my initiative, because of the initiative of the ÖVP Group – and the Minister of Finance has gone to the Constitutional Court, and the Constitutional Court will inform us of its decision. [[Abg. Podgorschek: must you be nervous! Probably!]] But, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, I'm telling you: We must also take note of what the Constitutional Court decides because, as legislator, we need to take decisions from the Constitutional Court whether they fit us or not. [[Abg. Kogler: But we can also change laws! Let's change the law! ... have said there's never been any more file blackouts! Lopatka: No more file blacks!]] And now to the content of the request: Mr Podgorschek, I fully believe that we need a reform in the field of supervision. This is not a question at all, I have said from the outset, and we have heard this from the persons involved in the investigation committee. The information people have clearly given us one thing to understand: There were reports that no one read. There were no follow-up tests – that is, everything one has discovered, what the supervision has discovered during the tests has never been tracked again. The auditors, both from the National Bank and from the Financial Market Supervisory Board, have never taken care of the audit priorities set by auditors when auditing the annual accounts. I am full of the opinion of everyone who is speaking here and says that we must reform the supervision. I think it is too short – and I think that is what Mr Hable is doing – if we go here now and reform a small corner, namely the state commissioners, and not a reform of the entire supervision. In my opinion, the auditors belong to this, since the bank audit in the National Bank and in the FMA is part of it, and that includes the state commissioners. But I say right away, the state commissioners are there only the dove on the i. It's always the talk if the state commissioners earn so little, then they look away. - Such a fool! Some supervisory councils deserve little, and yet they do a good job. I won't let that apply. The state commissioners we had as information staff were also top trained. Here it is ill by the system, and that belongs to changed, but the entire supervisory system and not just the state commissioners.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e20742	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e20760	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs. Tamandl, we're already in the same committee, aren't we? Because what you have now given of yourself regarding blacks is an insanity, I definitely have to say that! [[Abg. Kogler: This is a parallel committee!]] [[Abg. Tamandl: We have decided unanimously!]] The only one who was sentenced in Carinthia is your colleague from the ÖVP, the former State Councillor Martinz. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The first survey days in the Hypo-Research Committee showed that state commissioners were obviously not sufficiently equipped with instruments. [[New call of the abg. Tamandl.]] There is a need for reform on a number of points. Of course, for state commissioners to be able to fulfil their control obligations, there is a need for more competence. As a member of the Hypo-Research Committee, I was at the beginning – Mr Podgorschek has already given it to himself – I quote from the committee – that the state commissioners have said on their own that this instrument is toothless. - That was a quote. Another quote from another colleague of the state commissioners: That's de facto dead right, so that doesn't exist at all. The duties which a State Commissioner has or would have could not be fulfilled. So I don't know, Mrs. Colleague, what you're talking about here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Zakostelsky spoke of control. Yes, of course, that would have been their task, but they will be prevented, they have no information, they will be invited partly too late to the Supervisory Board meetings, and, and, and. I don't know how you get to the things you gave of yourself here. But another point that is significant – including your favorite topic, Mrs Tamandl – is the blackmail. Neudeutsche is not allowed to say any more blacks, i.e. cover. I seem to be driving myself in the face with a cover pen and painting black dots, I'm going over with the pen. One important point – that is to say, Mr Minister – is the file template. We get an act from the Federal Ministry of Finance. We get the same act from the Ministry of Justice. He is blackened by the Ministry of Finance, unblackened by the Ministry of Justice. I hope – and you are right – that the Constitutional Court will take a decision in this regard as far as possible. It is similar with the classifications of the files. Once the act is classified as a media public. According to another authority, the supervision of the financial market, the same act must be treated strictly confidentially. Here the left hand really doesn't know what the right hand is doing. In this respect, it is also incomprehensible, in the light of the new Rules of Procedure for the Parliamentary Investigation Committee, that despite the information regulation, acts, regardless of their classification level, are still being transmitted to Parliament more or less blackened. [[Abg. Kogler: That's absurd!]] Absolutely absurd! Cross-group, also with the support of Madam President Bures, such actions have been rejected and strongly criticised by the authorities. I am tabling a motion for a resolution on this matter by Mr Darmann, Mr Rauch, Mr Podgorschek and Mr Hafenecker. The National Council wants to decide: ‘The Federal Government is asked to transmit files to the national Council's investigation committees completely unscathed and merely with the appropriate level of qualification.’
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e20848	Mr President, I should like to ask you to read the text of the decision again, just as it is written down.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e20864	The National Council wants to decide: ‘The Federal Government is asked to transmit files to the national Council's investigation committees completely unscathed and merely with the appropriate level of qualification.’
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e20891	You have a slightly different version from the one we have here. I would ask you to speak again and submit the request again. Mr Lipitsch came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e20912	Mr President. Federal Minister! We have now experienced a hypo debate on agenda items 3 to 5 until now, and I am allowed to say just one more sentence. Last time in committee, our colleague Krainer presented a letter from the then head of state, Haider, to Grasser, which clearly shows how the political system worked at that time. But to look into the future, I would like to comment briefly on item 4, on the CSD. This is about the implementation – which has already been mentioned – of an EU regulation that provides for the improvement of security and efficiency in the delivery and settlement of securities and includes accompanying measures. I believe that this is a very important point, because it creates provisions for the CSD. We currently have a CSD in Austria, which is the Oesterreichische Control Bank, which serves as a clearing office and will continue to carry out this task as a CSD in Austria, according to the Federal Minister of State in the Committee. However, this EU regulation will also be implemented in Austrian law and will therefore also create an authority. The FMA will take over the tasks envisaged and decide on the authorisation and supervision of CSDs in Austria. The FMA will also be active in international cooperation in this area. If there is legal assistance from other countries or we request legal assistance, this will be handled through the FMA. It will also be able to adopt appropriate rules on penalties for infringements. CSDs can also receive a limited banking concession in the future. The new authority, i.e. the FMA, will also have to decide on this. This supervisory authority is responsible for effective execution, for the necessary accompanying measures, but also for control and, if there are errors, for implementing the criminal provisions in cooperation with the Austrian National Bank. However, it should be noted that, in addition to this law, the Capital Market Act is also renewed in a point, which is the adaptation to the prospectus procedure. In the future, the prospectuss will also have to be placed on electronically, which was now necessary only from a certain sum. This, of course, serves to improve the protection of investors. I believe that this law brings more efficiency and security in the capital market, and it is very positive that we can implement this EU directive in this form.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e20962	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Big. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e20980	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. I would like to say a few words about the Accounting Change Act. We have recently passed the Accounting Act in the spring of this year. The task was to adapt to international rules, implement an EU directive, simplify and approximate trade law and tax law. This law has been very successful. And now we are taking the next step, we are adapting the special laws to this law so that it is comparable. I would like to take part in the discussion briefly. While we are discussing here whether we are upgrading State Secretary... [[Abg. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come]] Commissioners, I'm capable of learning. [[Abg. Podgorschek: This can happen, we are gracious! Everything's getting messed up!]] Everything's getting messed up, I'm adapting to the whole FPÖ, that's not a problem. While we are discussing whether we are upgrading the state commissioners, this law is already the first step towards better control: This is because it amends the provisions of the directive, eliminates its own shares and no longer presents them as equity. Latent taxes will be reassessed. There are no more special items, no more non-taxable reserves, thus abolishing the possibility of concealment of foreign or equity. It is established that banks are always companies of particular public interest and with special supervisory and interpretation rules. That is, while others discuss whether to pay €216 more or less somewhere, this law not only implements an EU directive, but – without them having heard – already takes the first step towards better banking supervision.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e21028	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Kuzdas. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e21046	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to speak on the motion for a resolution by the Liberals. We have already debated the request in the Financial Committee and have rejected it for several reasons. One of these is of course that – but that can happen – the wrong paragraph was caught when quoting. [[Abg. Krainer: Yes, with such a quick shot, it can happen if you work seriously, of course not!]] [[Abg. Kickl: That's what the crane says!]] Yeah, it was a little too fast. There has already been a lot of talk on this subject. To use the first committee days in the same way to change a law may be useful to make political change. I'm here with my colleague Tamandl, who thinks we're looking at the whole system of control. [[Abg. Kogler: We have known this since 2006 from the Banking Committee! What are you talking about? We've known that for eight years!]] Mr Kogler, there is also substantial evidence from the Banking Committee, which has ultimately resulted in legislation. Whether one could have prevented the hypo's machinations by means of control can be doubted, on the one hand, because several actors have participated; the board of directors, some of which have already been condemned, the head of state, who can no longer defend himself, and a former finance minister. Why did I put it that way? I have faced a committee protocol with the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Telekom Investigation Committee and have asked whether he is certain, given the current state of knowledge and the facts presented, that the Board of Directors of that time has truly informed him. [[Abg. Krainer: And lie!]] He didn't. In the moment when the Board of Directors or the Supervisory Board develops criminal energies, it becomes quite, very difficult. If the Supervisory Board is not truthfully informed of the Supervisory Board, the Supervisory Board has no chance and much less of the State Commissioner. That is why, as the Finance Minister in the Committee has said, we should see and discuss the whole of the matter openly – you are still coming, Mr Kogler – whether and how you are dealing with the establishment of the State Commissioner, because this is obviously a faccotum and a one-time thing in Austria, which is nowhere else. [[Abg. Kogler: But if it is obvious! The obvious can already be seen!]] [[Abg. Kogler: Not at all!]] That is why we should also consider how it works in other countries and then include the results of the Committee of Inquiry in order to draw the right conclusions.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e21147	Mr Obernosterer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e21165	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! On the agenda item 5 on the request of Elmar Podgorschek of the Freedom Party: We know we need that, but I see the time as not right right now. [[Abg. Podgorschek: When is the time?]] You know exactly, we're not even done with the information about state supervision, say FMA, Oesterreichische Nationalbank, state commissioners are finished, and we know because of these statements that something has to be done in this direction too. We know that the state commissioners in this form have only a legal task – as it was said there – that they are actually only responsible for whether these meetings are in conformity with the law. The question is: Do we need three more controls? Is there not enough control with completely different competences, and, as my previous speaker has already said, how does this look in other countries? We also made the 2008 reform. I think it's good that we're discussing this today. But today, in my opinion, taking a decision to introduce the reform to the state commissioners is not correct, because I am not sure whether we need it at all, if there are three checks, if not only two or one with completely different competences. What comes out in the final effect, there is also this committee and our communication to the Ministry of Finance, so that it is then repaired in such a way that such a thing is not happening anymore, what happened at the Hypo, where there is a chain of failure and not only in one area alone. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e21200	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Hanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e21218	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I am also speaking about the request of the liberals, the upgrading of the state commissioners, and about my perceptions that I have had in the financial committee. I was also in the Committee on Budgets, and in my view this was very interesting for someone who is very interested in financial market policy and budgetary policy issues. It really, I think, has been discussed in depth all the essential issues that are currently to be discussed in financial policy, whether this is the Greek question, the Carinthian question, the European financial market stability, the credit quality of Austria and much more. I would also like to take the opportunity to say: I was very impressed by what eloquence, with what sovereignty, with what expertise and with what solution our Minister of Finance is addressing the issues. This is very, very impressive, and I would also like to say a great thank you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That deserves a lot of applause. I have almost assumed that Mr Kogler applauded, because he emphasizes in every second speech that he is very supportive of the way of the Minister for Finance. In the meantime, our Minister of Finance is also very supportive of other political groups. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Podgorschek, I actually considered the discussion in committee to be very, very constructive. We have discussed the fact that there is now also a European supervisory architecture, we have discussed the fact that, of course, reforms have been taken in recent years. We have discussed the fact that there are, of course, many players in banking supervision. Of course, we have discussed risk management in banks, internal revision, supervisory councils, state commissioners, financial market supervision, OeNB, and we have also discussed the need for reform of course. We were also consensual of the opinion that it makes little sense for the state commissioners to take a single step, but that of course the overall system should be assessed. I have felt the discussion at a very high level and so everyone wants to think intensively about it together in order to achieve common solutions. But if I read on the Internet – now I come to the point, Mr Podgorschek – on fpoe.at, “Podgorschek: Hypo: Government parties prevent the strengthening of state banking supervision,” I think, I was there now in another movie or I was there in another discussion. Obviously, you are not concerned with solutions in the matter, but with the short-term headline. Obviously, it is not a question of achieving the best for the Austrians. And I say quite honestly to you that this kind of discussion is also a nerve for many Austrians. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e21265	Mr Podgorschek. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e21283	Mr Hanger, I do not know what this motion for a resolution, which is vague and harmless, creates. And to your sentence against it: It is a fact once, and that I write this in my Facebook account, is yes, I think, quite legitimate and correct. I don't understand the whole excitement! This is nothing but a normal motion for a resolution, a will-consultation, a decision by Parliament which, if we all agree on the subject and on a technical basis, could be taken accordingly. All right, I'll take note of it. You don't want it! And if I hear about this influence by Mr. Landeshuptmann Haider! I am really the last – I say that again and again, and I have often said this here – who would have an opportunity to defend Jörg Haider in principle, because I have been party-political in the FPÖ for 30 years and have experienced a lot of what Jörg Haider has done to us liberals. But it must remain the church in the truest sense of the word in the village. If a head of state does no more and no less than what all other national leaders do in the same way, also in Upper Austria: that he has occasionally used his Landesbank to finance... [[Abg. Kuzdas: That was like the casino!]] Where? Say: Where, Mr. Kuzdas? – This has not yet been achieved in the Committee. If he has a “Wörthersee Stadium” funded to a third of the federal, state, and municipality of Klagenfurt, what is inappropriate? He has not intervened in the business in any way, with the exception of this letter. The board of directors has had criminal energy, that's right, and that's also to explain. But he has no longer intervened, for example, a head of state Pröll who has settled the Executive Board Pribil, now at the National Bank, in the casino in Baden coram publico. This is evidenced, even in the newspapers. Where is the difference, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I know that some of the Carinthian Members here in the House have a bit of a trauma – such as the colleague Obernosterer – because they simply did not understand that once the liberals overtook the ÖVP in Carinthia. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] But I'm going to add: I think it is a question of Parliament's self-understanding that we are fighting these blacks. Forget about these blacks One thing I would like to say is that: Four steps of confidentiality have been introduced, and we MEPs have, according to our own understanding, signed a declaration of confidentiality that we do not disclose our knowledge to the public. This is even threatened with prison at the fourth stage. If I am not allowed to see as an elected Member of Parliament files, because the reason is that the banking secret is behind them, I wonder why these parties are now trying to undermine this banking secret and finally abolish it! That doesn't fit in at all for me. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is nothing but a power struggle – otherwise I can't titulate it – between legislative and executive. [[Abg. We need a transparent state apparatus and not a glass citizen!]] We MEPs should be confident that we are in a massive way opposed to it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I come to the conclusion of this motion for a resolution, which has not been properly tabled, and now I should like to make one more point. Darmann, Walter Rauch, Elmar Podgoricaschek, Christian Hafenecker and other Members. ‘The National Council wants to decide: ‘The competent members of the Federal Government are invited to submit files to the national Council's investigation committees completely unblackened and merely with the corresponding classification level.’
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e21369	The application is properly submitted and sufficiently supported, and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e21454	Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Strolz, I don't know if the camera's connected or not. [[Abg. Strolled on his seat with a model of a camera.]] I just want to ask her not to join us. – Excellent, thank you! I wanted to protect the privacy of the representative sitting in front of you. The honourable Member, who has just spoken, is now speaking. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e21481	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! This debate has now opened up the opportunity to turn to the more and more useful exercise, to draw even first conclusions as regards the work of the new committee of inquiry, in particular the current so-called hypo committee. Two topics have been relevated: Reform State Commissioners; and still – admittedly: painful, but necessary, and with passion – the question of procedural barriers such as file blackouts. There are also a number of other obstacles where one would never have believed that government agencies are doing so. We are not talking about the Members of Parliament, because ÖVP and SPÖ can lean back once more – for the time being! What government agencies or the National Bank or the FIMBAG show here in terms of blackouts or completely false classifications of files, against any new legal intention, and also against the letters of the law, is the bottom line for the barrel, what they show here! I'll tell you. [[Congratulation with Greens and FPÖ.]] That is why we will be talking about the reform of the Rules of Procedure, although the Constitution has become possible that a committee of inquiry can no longer be turned off without further or at all. But I would not have thought it possible to see a lot of negative energy coming in from government agencies and authorities in order to organize something similar to a major disability of investigations – those authorities that should be examined! We are not going to let go of this, because first of all we are dealing with a lot of prejudicial questions for the future. Secondly, we simply won't let that happen anymore – quite simply! [[Congratulation with Greens and FPÖ.]] This is also against the background that we do not need to go back far in the ORF TV library – at least I do. A few months ago, the club members of ÖVP and SPÖ were standing in the back of the column hall, and they rejoiced with the others, just too euphoric, Lopatka, coffers: No more blacks! We didn't say that. Now you can sing some chorales and re-enact them, and then let's see if the notes are still right! That's what's so unbearable. We'll be back soon. I would only like to benefit from the situation with the Commissioners of State only insofar as we have a few interim results from the Committee of Inquiry, which can be briefly referred to the Assembly. My colleague, Mr Krainer, rightly pointed out to me that even the panel, which had been turned off, brought a great deal in 2007, because the FMA was well reformed, partly even in questions to the state commissioners, but not enough. That is why we should be able to approach the proposal which is available here in a positive way. But many things have not really been tangled in this reform of the state commissioners. For example, if today has been said in the example: If so much criminal energy is there and the board of directors is lying to the Supervisory Board, then the State Commissioner can't know anything at all!, then I have to stop it, well, that's not true. The reform has not brought much. Let's see what's already been observed in this bank. I'm not going to assume ownership, that's a separate investigation. But what do we have in it, Commissioners and supervision, a FMA, then newly founded, a Grasser-Schüssel product, the new financial market supervision? – And the central bank in old strength: always red-black, to this day! Money laundering: Missing! Never beings, gone. They never made a report, as referred to, until 2009! Internal revision: Zero! This would have to happen by law in the Supervisory Board. They looked away and they didn't look. Just like this: The internal revisor in the bank has been locked down in the basement, he was not allowed to do anything – where the credit balances have already stacked! However, this has seen the supervision, which has been included in the credit committee. It's not credit control. The whole types from the Balkans have been eaten, they have been transferred to the millions – and the State Commissioner is sitting next door. 450 million in 45 minutes: Calculate the minute's time! That's what we have in charge of? - No, we don't need them for that! That is why it is reformed, the entire supervisory triangle FMA, note bank with extension of state commissioners who have never reported to each other. [[Congratulation with Greens and FPÖ]] One time in ten years, I'll bring the case to you at once; one time, and nothing exactly happened that had tragic consequences! But there's never been anything happening. The triangle ministry, note bank, FMA is not a supervisory triangle, it's a Bermuda triangle. That's always the way it was. That's been so until 2009 or until 2010, so long it was. We have already had the reform behind us. In 2004, 2005, 2006 individual members of this House of the FMA have already reported what is happening with the millions of closures in the Balkans. Supervision has done little to nothing, sometimes a critical report, sometimes commissioned. Then he was critical – but why didn't they do anything? Sometimes it wasn't commissioned at all. But then again the orders were missing. So that's not a round picture. That's not a round picture, it won't surprise us now. The state commissioners who were supposed to be eye and ear inside, so to speak, as levers of this triangle, were a maximum of a blind intestine, entirely for the fish. That's not much better yet, there'll be a lot to do. Now for the minutes, just so that we can see what this committee has already promoted.One single time, already in 2008, from my point of view, the Commissioner for State really observed something that should have been more than significant. [[Abg. Arbitrator: But it's always all for the record! Or?]] We write the Supervisory Board session a few weeks before the National Bank has sent out this so-called “Not distressed” opinion: That was one of the biggest accidents in the whole failure chain! A few weeks before, the State Commissioner sits in the Supervisory Board and writes a very critical report for the first time, the very first time: Tilo Berlin explains to the Supervisory Board that we are now – we, the Bank Hypo in Bavarian property – collecting the participation capital from Vienna. Over 1 billion, they wanted it. To this end, it is essential to represent the Bank as a ‘sound’. That is logical, because otherwise it would have to be handled or restructured – which would have been right. We would have saved ourselves a lot, very much! And the numbers are beautified in a way that still keeps the spit away from you today! In 2008, the outbreak of the financial crisis was just the same, and there they already write hundreds of millions of losses in the hypo; that was not yet a price. Then he sits down and explains to his members on the Supervisory Board: You are now all going to Vienna to describe the bank beautifully; by the way, you can find open doors in the then Ministry of Finance. One also has opponents in Vienna, which is why the bank must necessarily be described as “sound”, out of Bavarian interest. This is what the Commissioner writes, and she now writes her critical pro-domo comment on what Mr Berlin is doing: informal interlude in the BMF, open doors! Then it goes on: The request must be submitted quickly, and there is already competition for the money behind the scenes. I'll leave something out. Then they say: It is now true that from the BayernLB side, we must expressly concur with all of us here that the bank is described as healthy. But the state commissioner says pro domo, for her house, so for the FMA and for the central bank: These assumptions, which are taken here, are completely wrong. Berlin explains that the risk factors for 2009/2010/2011 have to be halved. So that's a macro bill where everything gets better. It goes on to say: He explains – you have to imagine that now! – that the hypo transactions were so negative in 2008 because the effects of Austria, Bavaria and Germany were. The hypo-businesses in the Balkans are much more stable, are much better designed, and that's why one will write profits in 2009, 2010 and 2011. Just with the reverse signs, like at the robber Hotzenplotz, it happened! They just rewritten the loss into a profit. 300 million losses: That's where we make a profit! This would not be so tragic if the Commissioner of the State reported it to the supervisory authorities at a lucid moment. But what you are not going to do now or should not even be allowed to endure is as follows: A few weeks later, therefore, the note bank comes and plausilizes this scrap! Exactly the same figures the Bayern management of the note bank has transmitted when it came to presenting the hunderdstite bank as healthy again – and they have done so! The “Not distressed” opinion has thus come about: They're not healthy, but we don't write them sick, so there's something in the middle! And the very same figures that Tilo Berlin presented for better knowledge – according to my claim – were plausible when he swore to them all: Let us move to Vienna, let us explain, the bank is “sound”, and they will already give us money! That's the way it was. And here you tell me that the Investigation Committee is not useful and necessary! [[Congratulations with Greens, FPÖ, Team Stronach and NEOS.]] By the way, they could have found long ago arguments to better stand up against Bavaria. There you can see that these committees of inquiry are always a little helpful and valuable. That is why, as I say at the end of the day, it is really a cleanerry, as the work of this committee is still being hindered here! We've organized these things in half the blind flight. We already had the act after the first witnesses were there because they were not available in the form at all. The fact that files are still being blackened is a story we have debated. But that we are sitting here today – and this is very well addressed to the representatives of the Social Democracy and the ÖVP – and that the counterpart to what the Ministry of Finance has now brought to the Constitutional Court is that the counterpart of the Committee is being made again only with a minority action, because SPÖ and ÖVP are jumping down, I think this is once again one of the typical actions that we are experiencing here again and again. The same applies to the fact that, after a working plan of the opposition has already been in place, the political groups are simply bubbling in the middle of 23 witnesses, hoping that the President and President will take it forward. Above all, it is obvious that black ministers do not have to express themselves before the country elections in Vienna and Upper Austria. Keep going! But we will not let you go through the new turning that occurs in the form of all these obstacles. And if you continue to abuse your majority – there are still sufficient majority rights – then we will not be reluctant to discuss this publicly. [[Congratulation with Greens and FPÖ.]] This chuzpe, that you stand down and say: “All new, all transparent!” but wherever you can, we will have to talk more about this way, which is your way of doing it! But we say we're going to enforce clean records and make clean investigations. That's why: Now stick to the motto “clean files, clean policies”!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e21549	Mr Krainer came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e21567	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! To the blackness, it is necessary to note: In the Committee of Inquiry, this was unanimously rejected by all political groups. This call has already been unanimously given to the authorities concerned to deliver completely unblackened. [[Abg. Kogler: Yes, but you don't go to the Constitutional Court!]] We are in good conversation, and it can only be the goal that – at the Constitutional Court it is already – one should be here as a committee accordingly, whatever we have done in the past. [[Abg. Kogler: You are not even there!]] [[Further calls.]] On the question of the State Commissioners, we have to say the following. As to why we reject this request from the FPÖ, we have already communicated clearly anyway, also publicly: It's just a show-fast shot. It was so fast that somehow you didn't even find the right paragraph in the BWG, but just once wrote the wrong one. [[Abg. Deimek: How was this in your request, where even the names did not vote? I would be very quiet, my colleague.]] We have expressly said that at least we see a need for improvement. But that's part of a total reform, and we don't want quick shots, but we want a reasonable one... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stefan.]] Yes, you wanted to change it as an account register law or change it in the account register and not even the state commissioners if I read the application carefully. So I'd rather not look up like that, but rather take a little bit of silence when it comes to it. [[Abg. Stefan: What is your problem? Is that your problem?]] And not only about it, but also about other questions, for example, about what is in it – if we are already talking about the request in terms of content. There may be no more or less organ meeting, except for the Board of Directors, of a stock company, of a bank if the State Commissioner is not there. Well, if he's sick, can't decisions be made? And then who pays? [[Abg. Darmann:... an alternate!]] – Aha, we already had: Two alternates, and there were some meetings, there were both not there, because one is on a trip abroad, and the other is ill. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Excuse me, think about it: What does that mean when a bank says that I could not take the necessary decisions because I am not allowed to hold a meeting? And the damage is now paid by the taxpayer? – Think a little bit calmly about the proposals you make! That the state commissioners, I say, have been working better since the 2008 reform, that has clearly resulted in the surveys and has noticed everyone. But that there's still air up there, it's clear. We're against fast shots. [[Abg. Deimek:... into a bank!]] For the balance sheet, if we now draw an interim balance sheet: Yes, what we learned from the Banking Investigation Committee is that cooperation between the OeNB, the Ministry of Finance and the FMA did not work optimally before 2008 but worked very badly. We have also learned that the FMA, although a non-wisdom-free authority, has been instrumentalised politically, for example in the 2006 election campaign: Sprinkle SPÖ-Kreite et cetera. That's what we've learned. New is that the FMA has been effective for the first time: against the executives of the hypo, namely after the swap losses. What happened? – The former head of state defended and praised by you today intervenes with the Minister of Finance. And what does Minister of Finance Grasser do? – Well, he's a Carinthian friend of Haider, he's not behind the supervision. He is not behind the Boards of Financial Market Supervision, but what is he doing? – He puts the gun on them and threatens them with the rush by initiating a decomposition procedure! This is what we have learned in this committee of inquiry: an unblemished and insolent political intervention by the Blue Haider and Grassers against the supervision of the financial market, because they wanted the bank to fail properly. That's what we've learned! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Strache and Mr Podgorica.]] Like the liberals, when they are in positions of power, using these party-political pledges and being turned off control, we have learned that. We have learned that all the nodes of supervision... Who was the State Commissioner at the Hypo? Who was that? What did she do before she became a state commissioner? – She was a member of the Blue Grass at the Ministry of Finance. So state commissioner is equally close to Grasser, the direct state commissioner of the bank. Who's FMA Board? – The former Chief of Grasser’s Cabinet will become FMA’s Executive Board, the Blue. This is the next thing that happens. [[Abg. Strache: The grass was at the ÖVP at the time!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Podgorschek.]] Who is in the Supervisory Board of Financial Market Supervision? – Next: Again, two employees from Grasser's office suddenly sit in the Supervisory Board of the FMA, who notes that the FMA Boards should be dropped if they are going too hard on the hypo. We see how at all nodes...: in the OeNB a certain Christian, in the Supervisory Board of the FMA Christl and Sabine Kanduth-Kristen, Dr. Traumüller in the FMA Board. [[Abg. You're just a little confused about the party!]] The next one is who is responsible for controlling the state's liability. That's what we've learned. Who is responsible for controlling the state's liability? – The Court of Auditors. Who will be Chief of the Court of Auditors? – The former head of the office of Haider, when he was head of state in Carinthia, will then become head of the Court of Auditors. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Podgorschek.]] That's what happens: the elimination of control. And if the control does something, political intervention and the threat of dismissing and withdrawing the board of directors. We have learned from this committee of inquiry, and we are only at the beginning. And if the Greens and the Blues believe that you can complete the time in Carinthia with a single blue politician, with a single, and otherwise we don't have to look at anything in Carinthia, then they should not be surprised, though the other parties, and not only the government parties, including opposition parties such as the NEOS, say: [[Abg. Stefan: Vienna is reality!]] That is too little, we want real information, especially in terms of what happened to these national liabilitys, how they were received and how irresponsible policy was made. I am really disappointed that the Greens are taking part in this attempt to cover this Carinthian time. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e21763	Mrs Tamandl has the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e21782	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Finance! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, right now, it is talking about an unholy alliance. I would never have thought that a Werner Kogler, who has put himself on the flag, would like to inform him objectively, to clarify everything, to present a list of persons on which there are actually no blue politicians and no responsible politicians from Carinthia. [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] That's actually indescribable, I can't believe you're doing this. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] For this reason, we have also presented a list of information subjects, because we believe that the responsible politicians from Carinthia should come before the Committee of Inquiry. [[Abg. Podgorschek: This will not help you either!]] We have often said enough that we want all club members of all political groups. We also invited our and the clubman of the SPÖ in Carinthia at the time, which is no question at all, because that is also important to us. We also want former national councils, and of course we also want members or head of the office of head of state Haider, because we promise that there is still some political influence to be promoted. [[Abg. Brosz: Your only goal is not to let the ÖVP ministers come!]] On the blackening of the files: It is clear, and I believe that I have said this in advance, that we have adopted a unanimous insistence decision in the Committee on Inquiry, after which we have also called on FIMBAG, for example, to deliver all the files without delay, in addition to the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry of Finance insists on an opinion by Professor Nicolas Raschauer, in which it is quite clear that, for example, the weaknesses resulting from banking secrecy and also the fact that certain parts of the file are not to be attributed to the subject-matter of the investigation are not to be presented to the committee of inquiry. [[Abg. Brosz: That's the ÖVP position now?]] [[Unrest in the meeting room.]] – I would have liked your attention, too, if I spoke, I would have given it to you. The Constitutional Court will take a decision, and we would also have been able to make a request, take a decision and go to the Constitutional Court together in the Committee of Inquiry. [[Abg. Brosz: As long as we don't go against ÖVP ministers!]] Only, quite honestly, with the ÖVP and also with our coalition partner will it not be that we eliminate the data protection. We want to clarify this with regard to banking secrecy, but your draft said that data protection should be erased. [[Intervocations with FPÖ and greens.]] And with our consent, you certainly cannot expect those who are always fully committed to data protection. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is why we do not go along, and that is why we do not agree to this request because it does not belong here. We could have agreed on a common text and made a majority or unanimous decision in the Committee of Inquiry. [[Abg. Brosz: Black Minister, black Members, black files!]] – Mr Brosz, you are not even in the Committee of Inquiry. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Brosz.]] - Yes, I do. They seem to know nothing about this insistence decision. [[Abg. Brosz:... no blackened files!]] [[Subsequent calls to FPÖ and greens.]] Mr President. Are all rulers speaking?
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e21917	Mrs Tamandl, the sound scene was also relatively unpleasant among the speakers. I ask that we come down a little bit and try to listen, and I have nothing against it if a debate is very lively.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e21932	I don't have a voice anymore if I have to shout so loud that I exceed the rulers in plenary. That is to say, we will not, of course, agree with this request, because we would have expected that our arguments, namely data protection, would have been appreciated in the request that we could have included in the decision in the Committee of Inquiry. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek]] On the dates, Mr Kogler, on the dates with the information subjects, on the consultation dates: I remember we had a good conversation this week on Monday, first under four eyes. And then we reached a consensus at a group leader meeting that we are now hearing and questioning the Boards of Financial Markets Supervisory and High Level Representatives of the National Bank and that we will then consult the national politicians in Carinthia, then the Internal Revision, the Boards, the Supervisory Boards of the Bank and the Auditors and, finally, the Supervisory Board once again. They make themselves here and criticize that we also load information people ourselves. [[Abg. Kogler: No!]] They are now criticizing what we all agreed on in consensus at the Group leader's meeting. And that, I have to say quite honestly, is a process that I will no longer tolerate, because I will not go into a group leader's meeting anymore, if you then stand out and say something completely different each time. You can't work with us like that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations with FPÖ and greens.]] To the cargoers, quite simply: If you are not able to work out the Carinthian past, to clean up – you are the nation’s chief reconnaissance – we must therefore load information to clarify exactly this criminal case that originates in Carinthia.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e22001	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Darmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e22019	Mr President. High house! Above all, in the direction of ÖVP, there is no doubt that what we have heard today is also the last thing from Mr Tamandl, who is putting the floor to the barrel, especially with regard to Mr Klubobmann Lopatka, who has negotiated with us for months the reform of the investigation committees, in agreement, I emphasize, in almost daily coordination of the ÖVP club with the Ministry of Justice. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Frameset]] The purpose of the information regulation and the classification stages was to make the blacks in previous committees belong to the past, and so was the commitment of all of us. Also for you, Otto Pendl, who was with you during the negotiations. [[Abg. Fekter: There are...!]] Then it is a bit crazy for me now that Mr Klubobmann, who wanted to prevent exactly that in his negotiations, namely that there are blacks in the future, is still sitting in and chatting with Mr Tamandl's speech. Where are we going? – This is a kind of backbone of the special way, if we give ourselves corresponding rules of play with a new Rules of Procedure, with a system of information that determines that we can correctly clarify in the future by having a system of information that will help to ensure that blackmails will no longer take place in the future. [[Abg. Fekter:... go to the Constitutional Court!]] And what does the ÖVP do? – On one day it is for blacks, on the other day it is against blacks. [[Abg. Fekter: You're afraid!]] I can recall a statement by the colleague Tamandl in the Hypo-Research Committee, where she was even literally for the blacks. The next day in the debate on the Rules of Procedure, she was opposed to the blacks, apparently she was rebuffed. And now the best thing is happening at all, what you can only imagine: [[Abg. Fekter: You are afraid of the Constitutional Court!]] The Ministry of Finance itself goes to the Constitutional Court, and the ÖVP suddenly has a double mill, because the only person involved in the whole negotiation of the examination committee reform, namely the Minister of Justice, as the only one who delivered the files, namely, unblackened. The Constitutional Court now has the opportunity to say that the Minister of Finance has done everything right. But he says that the Minister of Justice has done everything wrong. Or he says the Minister of Justice has done everything right and the Minister of Finance has done everything wrong. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is the excitement of the whole history and the story of the ÖVP, when it comes to covering your own responsibility in the hypo-causa, in a wise way that the education points nationalization and the time after the nationalization to the heta will bring you hardest into the Bredouille, and you know this, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nice to meet you.]] You know that these files, which will come to the High House here in this context, will have a special breeze. [[New call of the abg. Fekter.]] And if I'm already with files and bristles, ladies and gentlemen: Mrs Fekter, you are confident that you will be able to call in here, which you have been inactive in the area of hypo for many years. I would like to hold back, because under your time, too, according to Griss report, a billion-dollar damage has been caused in the hypo, which can be very clearly attributed, Mrs Colleague, which is very clearly achievable. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Call at the FPÖ towards the Abg. Fekter: Please be quiet]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nice to meet you.]] But let's look at another brilliant act. There has actually been the incident – and one imagines it – a mirror-like act from the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice. [[Call to the ÖVP: We already heard that!]] The Ministry of Finance truly wanted to sell us that they had only blackened parts that have nothing to do with the mortgage, concerning personal interests, private interests or interests of other banking institutions, and that is why one would be weakened. Only then do we insist on it because, by chance and gratefully, the Minister of Justice is doing the right thing and has delivered the same files unblackened, that this act and, above all, the passage in the act, which was blackened by the Ministry of Finance, is very likely to have a hypo-relation. Then you have to ask yourself how correct information should be possible in an investigation committee if you cannot rely on what or what is not under a black spot, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You have to let that break on your tongue. That is why we also have the classification levels to deal correctly with this information at appropriate levels to the level of secrecy and also with reluctance to carry it, if necessary, to the media public and nevertheless to provide us with information in the house. This is what it is all about, ladies and gentlemen, and not to blacken cross and cross, herb and beet. Not even the directive in the Ministry of Finance itself, which was drawn up by the Ministry of Finance, has led all departments in the Ministry of Finance to weaken under this Directive. One has blackened, the other has not blackened, and finally there has even been a directive discussion with a cabinet member. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nice to meet you.]] This member of the cabinet will also be heard in the Committee of Inquiry to see what has been done in the direction of blackmailing officials, who, as we all know, in the past have even had health problems due to the number of acts that are too difficult. So this takes on a dimension in which you have to ask yourself: Haven't these ministries also earned their own cabaret section with corresponding section heads? – For what is happening in abstruse side areas of blackness, ladies and gentlemen, let yourself be broken on the tongue: They actually admitted, as the highest bank supervisor of financial market supervision last Monday in the investigative committee, that the banking investigation committee of 2006 and 2007 had been given health problems to the weaking officials due to the extent of the paint transition in blacking and he had to address them with courage. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nice to meet you.]] You have to imagine this: I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report. – Where are we going? We have a responsibility towards the population and taxpayers, but not only the National Council, but also the government, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And that you continue to cover this, especially on the part of the ÖVP, this is really a revelation that you have done here today and will continue to make manifestly, for it has apparently not been enough for the ÖVP. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Woeinger]] The SPÖ seems to have become smarter. But for the EIA, it has not been possible to prevent the Committee of Inquiry over 20 times in Parliament. [[Abg. Kogler: Right! The same people!]] Now you have found a way about what kind of argumentation slings I can bring in blackened files, where they have nothing more to look for. And the population will take their picture. Who has the benefit of blackened files coming from the Ministry of Finance if you have already made up your debtors? That's why I'm on the next subject. I hope my group forgives me for spending a little more time. [[Abg. Stefan: Well invested time!]] However, ladies and gentlemen, when Mr Krainer – and I have to look for it again – comes out here with Mr Haider's colleague from ÖVP and quotes a alleged threat letter against Grasser and against the Board of Financial Market Supervision, you should say that – and you have claimed it wrong with the media in the Committee too – and I had to correct it in the Hypo-Inspection Committee – what Altland Chief Haider has threatened: namely, with the rule of law, with an advertisement to the rule of law, with an advertisement to the rule of law if it is not done properly. This is the content of this letter, which you try to present as a threat letter, as an illegal intervention in banking supervision. [[Abg. Eßl holds a poster with the title “Hypo Carinthia: Thanks FPÖ” in height.]] This is the truth, ladies and gentlemen, and this should also be known to the public, for I have not heard yet, even as a lawyer, that it is absolutely objectionable to say to someone: Work correctly and stop these misdevelopments! I hope that what has happened so far is not illegal, otherwise justice will have to intervene. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] That is something that I hope will be an assignment to all of us and will also be in the future to show illegal developments and also to urge justice accordingly, ladies and gentlemen. To blame us, that's probably the last thing. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Another important point, because we are in the process of preparing the interim report, as some have started, of the Hypo-Research Committee. We have also heard today that it is not necessary to upgrade the activities of the State Commissioners. Ladies and gentlemen! In particular, members of the SPÖ and ÖVP in the Hypo-Research Committee valued! We have seen in it how the auditors from the Austrian National Bank have cooperated with the state commissioners, with which the financial market supervisors have worked or have not worked together, for that is exactly what the problem was. There was no exchange of information, all of them wandered around as lonely satellites, but the pooling of the information did not happen. The people from the Oesterreichische National Bank, the auditors, even told us: I never met a state commissioner. It was never planned that I would have talked to anyone. This would have been the supervisors, the supervisory authority, the on-the-spot financial market surveillance in the bank, which should have been seen at every meeting of the Supervisory Board and in committee meetings up to the credit committee on the right. But what did they do? – And this is also a point of our demand: Both, both the Chief State Commissioner and her deputy, were often not present in the committees. They have also suffered one thing, namely their veto right in the Supervisory Board itself, which would have been legally granted to them, to inhibit and stop immediately illegal decisions. I hope that this will be a task for all of us, if we continue to work for the future, even if state commissioners are not necessarily determined whether they are present or not, or if not, to ensure that there is a duty of presence in these relevant bodies, so that such things no longer take place. I have to say one thing, too. If a state commissioner informs the investigation committee that she has experienced in the Supervisory Board as the only person who was uninformed that there was a procedure in her main house, the financial market supervision, for market manipulation against people of the Hypo-Bank, who knew it, but the State Commissioner did not, then, ask her for the financial market supervision, for her boss, for her expert, for market manipulation, it is true that there is a procedure in our house for market manipulation against people in that bank in which I am supposed to watch, and then is told by the FMA, that is a matter of the legal department, which she does not care, because she does not get the information, then one does not attack the head, but not only as a Member here in the High House, but also as a citizen who assumes that a financial market supervision also controls what she is used for that she looks at the banks that look at the fingers. And this is just a short break from the, ladies and gentlemen, which we are promoting every day in this committee of inquiry, what we are discussing there and, ladies and gentlemen, what we have to fight with. Because one thing is clear: These ambiguities have not lost anything in the House, nor have they been in a committee of inquiry, if we continue to look at information in the interests of taxpayers. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e22243	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does one of the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 3: Draft Accounting Amending Act 2015 in 560 of the Supplements. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent Fuchs, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment. I shall therefore first vote on the part of the amendment concerned and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted on. Deputies DDr. Fuchs, ladies and gentlemen, have an amendment concerning Art. 8 Z 2 inserted. If you're right, I'll ask him for a sign. – That is rejected. We shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law as it stands. I ask those Members of the House who are here for an acceptable sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a sign on this point. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 4: Proposal concerning a federal law whereby the Federal Act on the effective functioning of Regulation (EU) No. 909/2014 to improve securities deliveries and settlements in the European Union and through CSD, as well as amending Directives 98/26/EC and 2014/65/EU and Regulation (EU) No. 236/2012 will be adopted and the Financial Market Supervisory Act, the Banking Act, the Securities Supervisory Act and other laws will be amended, together with the title and receipt in 562 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 5: Proposal from the Financial Committee to take note of its report 591 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Darmann, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to blackmail-free file delivery. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. That's why I'm doing this. The ballots to be used are in the drawers of the Members' House and bear the name of the Members and the name "Yes" – these are the grey ballots – or "No" – which are the pink ones. Only those official votes can be used for the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I would like to ask those Members who are in favour of the motion for a resolution by the honourable Members. Darmann, fellow Members, voted yes, those who vote against to throw “No” vote in the urn. Please be careful to throw only one vote mark! I would ask Mrs Lueger to start with the name call, and Mr Gahr will replace them later. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e22395	The vote will end. The officials of the House responsible for this task will now make the number of votes under the supervision of the Correspondents. The meeting will be suspended for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e22430	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote: Members cast: 147; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 64, No votes: 83. The motion for a resolution by the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Darmann, ladies and gentlemen, is therefore rejected. According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Alm, Angerer, Aslan, Bösch, Brosz, Brunner; Darmann, Deimek, Dietrich, Doppler, Ertlschweiger; Franz, Fuchs; Hackl Heinz-Peter, Hafenecker, Hagen, Haider, Hauser, Höbart, Hofer, Hübner; Jannach; Cashier, Kickl, Kitzmüller, Köchl, Kogler, Korun; Lausch, Lichtenecker, Lintl, Loacker, Lugar Robert; Meinl-Reisinger, Mölzer, Mückstein, Mühlberghuber, Musiol; Neubauer Werner; Pillow, Pirklhuber, Pok, Podgorschek; smoke Walter, Riemer, Rosary Barbara, Rosary Walter; Schellhorn, Schenk, Schimanek, Schmid Gerhard, Schmid Julian, Schwentner, Stefan, Steger, Steinbichler, Strache, Strolz; Vavrik, Vetter; Walser, Willi, Worm Peter; Zinggl. Members voted with ‘No’: Amon, Aubauer, Auer, Bacher Walter, Bayr, Becher Ruth, Berlakovich, Buchmayr; Cap; Darabos, Diesner Wais, perforation; Ecker, Eßl; Fichtinger Klaus Uwe, Fekter, Fichtinger Angela; Gahr, Gerstl, Gessl-Ranftl, Groiß, Grossmann, Gusenbauer-Jäger; Hakel Elisabeth, Hammer Michael, Hanger Andreas, Haubner, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Himmelbauer, Hofinger Manfred, Höfinger Johann, Huainigg; Jank, Jarolim; Karl, Katzian, Keck, Kirchgatterer, Knes, Königsberger-Ludwig, Krist, Kucharovich, Kuntzl, Kuzdas; Lipitsch, Lopatka, Lueger Angela; Matznetter, Mayer, Muchich, Muttonen; Obernosterer, Ottenschlager; Pendl, Pfurtscheller, Plessl, Preiner, Prince; Rädler, Rasinger, Rauch Johannes; Schieder, Schittenhelm, Schmijdenschlager, Schönegger, Schopf, Sieber Norbert, Singer Johann, Steinacker, Strasser; Tumandl, daughters, door; Vogl; Weninger; Wimmer, tiny, Wittmann, Wevinger, Worm Gisela; Yılmaz.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e22608	I ask you to understand that it took longer. But apparently someone threw in two ballots. Or what was the problem? [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Nevertheless, please understand. It took a little longer. But it is important that the result is correctly rendered. [[20:53:24]] 6. Point Report of the Education Committee on the Government Template (531, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the School Organisation Act and the School Education Act (600 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e22647	We're coming to 6. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Mag. Hauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e22671	Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would say from one construction site to the next construction site, now the construction site Neue Mittelschule. Today, the government proposal concerning the amendment of the School Education Act and the School Organisation Act is to be discussed and decided. To the New Secondary School: The main argument for the introduction of the New Middle School was that there are additional hours in the main subjects German, mathematics, living foreign language English and that these additional lessons of teachers are taught by the AHS and BHS at former primary schools. That should've been the big throw. Unfortunately, this litter has gone next door. The concept has been and is not implemented for several reasons. And if you look at this government template, you can see why the whole thing didn't work. I can quote from this government proposal. Now one makes out of the need a virtue by saying that I have additional hours and these additional hours – the actual argument for the New Secondary School – we now have to maintain, because that is the striking and the important argument. If one deepens into this government template – and I can quote from it – one comes to the truth, because under the word “problem analysis” it is found – I quote –: In practice, the limitation of the use of the six hours of the week to the differentiated requirements – i.e. German, Mathematics, English – leads to considerable difficulties, as in some cases, for example, state teachers with the special qualifications required at the relevant school location are not available. - That's what you're saying today. And further from this government template, quoting: If you don't change this now and don't distribute these six additional hours to other subjects, then I quote: the use of federal teachers in the field of general education and vocational education and training remains difficult. That means that there is nothing left of this concept of the New Secondary School. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This has actually failed, except that incredibly much money has been brought into the New Middle School, money that is missing in the back and front of the school. We have incredibly many construction sites: The primary schools in the rural area have been “dried down” – under quotation marks – and today there is a discussion about the AHS, which one wants to rationalise as a working school form even though this school form works, although the inflow to the AHS sub-level is maximum and the situation is now such that one can usually almost only get in with loud very good and both pressure on the teachers and on the students is given. I do not understand, above all, the ÖVP, that there is an attempt to implement a socialist model of thinking and not finally to stop school with this model attempt. The Court of Auditors has found that in recent years more than 5,000 school attempts have taken place in schools alone. You have to imagine this: more than 5,000 school attempts! It invested 114 million euros in the New Secondary School. There the teachers outweighed, and the New Secondary School was implemented on a large scale without having had the results of an evaluation. The Court of Auditors has rightly criticized this. That's why we say: Let's stop these attempts! Let's see that we get proven, like the AHS sub-level! Let's see that we use the money in school in such a way that the students read, write, calculate, and that we finally stop using these models and this failed model of the New Middle School! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e22737	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Grossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e22755	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! This novel brings greater flexibility, a stronger school autonomy. It can take more account of the learning and teaching needs through the more flexible use of the additional federal lessons on the ground, because on the spot you know best what is needed. Teachers are entrusted with more responsibility regarding diagnosis and decision-making, which pupils need. At the same time, however, school supervision is required to assist in providing advice in the sense of accompanying quality management. Of course, it is very important to strengthen basic competences, but also to strengthen school-specific priorities. It should be possible to decide more locally. The key element of the New Middle School is individualization. Obviously, some of you – the previous speaker has proved it – have not yet understood what that means. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: We are willing to learn!]] Children are different, have different development speeds, different strengths and weaknesses, and this is to be taken into account by increased individualisation. Children are to be funded individually, regardless of the social origin or the place of residence of the parent house. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] Here the children are to be more individually addressed. [[Abg. Stefan: That works totally!]] This model has proved itself anywhere where it has been implemented in a high degree. This shows us the evaluation report, and also Statistics Austria clearly demonstrates that more children from the New Secondary Schools are moving to higher schools. [[Abg. Stefan: As from where, from the primary school?]] That means we have a stronger permeability in school life. This is not the case with some of you, but it is about the fact that education diplomas are no longer inherited, as is still the case in Austria, but about the realization of equal opportunities. That's a good concept, and we're working on it! – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e22828	Next speaker: Mrs Jank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e22846	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! My group is behind the New Middle School. We want her to be a success, and the Minister of Education also has our full support in implementing measures to improve the New Middle School. [[Abg. Kitzmüller: You can want a lot!]] I also expressly welcome the fact that the six additional hours currently available in the mandatory German, living foreign language and mathematics fields are now extended, that they can also be used in school autonomous areas, such as in economics, natural sciences or also in music-creative subjects. This ensures that these significant resources, which are used, can best be tailored to the needs of the school location and can develop their impact there. In this context, however, it should also be noted that we do not at present know whether the objectives of the New Secondary School will be achieved, since we do not have a data base for this. [[President Bures takes over the presidency again.]] Mrs Minister, I have put a question to you, and this question shows that we do not know much about what we should know to be able to assess whether the objectives of the new secondary school are being achieved. We do not know, therefore, whether the promotion of talent and talent, the promotion in temporarily educated school groups, the differentiated teaching in the class or the promotion is actually used in performance courses, and not only team teaching is linked to the New Secondary School and whether the measures for differentiation are also implemented. I therefore ask once again to conduct such a data collection, because only then will we know whether the control mechanism of the New Secondary School will do what we expect, namely that the compulsory students in the primary competences read, write and calculate are trained in such a way that they can not only attend a further school, but above all they are able to take a teaching profession. The complaints of the companies that young people who want to start teaching are not sufficiently competent in this area are without number, and it is not possible for the companies to re-acquire what school has not yet taught. [[Abg. Peter Worm: Aha! But you have denied that for years, Mrs. Colleague!]] We would have an instrument to carry out an evaluation with the opportunities offered by the New Secondary School. But we should do it too! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! After the day has already progressed, I would just like to say a sentence on another subject, but I would like to thank you for the constructive discussion we had before: Please take the parents' concerns about the draft adoption of sexology seriously too! [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Thank you many times for this discussion and your willingness to discuss the decision with the parents accordingly. You said you contacted the parents. I am therefore convinced that we will also find a good solution here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e22903	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Walser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e22922	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Mrs Jank, it is already remarkable what you do not know what is going on in the New Middle School. I remember that you introduced them at a time when we all called for an evaluation and you believed that this was not necessary. Now get out and say: We don't know that, we don't know that, after you've introduced a school type, it's incomprehensible. I still have the words of Mr Amon in the ear, where he spoke of a century reform. You must have been very, very sure at the time that this system works, otherwise you would not have already praised it in the past and introduced it above all, because it has cost a lot of money. Unfortunately, you did not listen to the warnings and warnings of the Greens at the time, because then you would have saved yourself a lot of flops and, above all, we would have saved ourselves a lot of money. [[Call the ÖVP:And what's going on?]] Let me refer to it a little generally. The New Secondary School – and this was also an essential point of our criticism – was linked to very, very many hopes among middle school teachers, parents, even students. And it was foreseeable from the outset that a large part of these hopes were not fulfilled; for example, a departure from the strong social differentiation we have in Austria. The privilege that the rich children from close-to-school shifts with a corresponding family background are simply so much favoured from the outset remains, so we do not eliminate this deficit. However, we agree with this amendment, because it at least takes up one of our criticisms and provides for a little more flexibility. It is taking a step towards greater autonomy, something we urgently need. But we have to go on! That is why I am putting in place a motion for a resolution on the model region of the 'Joint School of Vorarlberg' which would continue in this context. A request that was announced by Mr Mayer in Vorarlberg. I have already suspected that he will forget him on the way to Vienna, and I would therefore like to bring him here myself. [[Quoted print version removed]] This would be a real step in making the new middle school the success model we want, a common school. However, we need to go one step further – one first step – to eliminate a deficit, namely this absurd fact that we have a seven-stage music model, in which no one knows each other. A second motion for a resolution on the abolition of the seven-stage scale. Motion for a resolution by Mrs Walser, ladies and gentlemen, on the abolition of the seven-stage scale music scale The National Council wants to decide: The Federal Minister for Education and Women is invited to introduce a form of performance assessment for parents and pupils, teachers, teachers and other persons. The existing seven-stage assessment scale between basic and deeper general education is to be abolished. That would be an essential step forward. A brief word on NEOS applications: Both go in the right direction. However, we will not be able to agree to this, namely the application for multi-professional personnel resources in New Secondary Schools, because this is at the expense of the teachers of the six hours that are now urgently needed. We need what you demand, but not in exchange with teachers' hours, who otherwise leave the New Secondary Schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e22970	The motions for resolutions have been properly tabled and are therefore under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e23064	Next speaker: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Strolz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e23082	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Estimated citizens on the screens! We'll discuss a novel to the school organization law. It's about six hours of team teaching in the New Middle School. This is an investment that will be around 230 to 250 million € in full expansion. It is about the fact that the hours should not only be able to be used in three core subjects, but should also take place in other subjects. In principle, we like that. I think it is a tripartite step, Mrs Minister, in the right direction, but it would be necessary to take decisive steps, these would be our wish, and determined steps naturally look different. I think it is a great opportunity not to turn these six hours into a quality budget that is freely available in schools. Finally: If six parliamentary parties consider that we want to expand school autonomy, and this commitment exists, and we do not even manage to transform these six hours – for, Mrs Minister, you have said to my demand that you cannot do so because it would fail to comply with legal requirements, et cetera – yes, then I do not have any good for the school autonomy plans you have until 17. To implement November, or the concept you want to present until then. If we don't even bring this together at six hours, then what does school autonomy mean? Are teachers recruiting the heads of state? – This is, of course, completely beyond, both content and the attempt to subsume it under school autonomy. That's why: Damn it, it's a tripple step. The right step would have been to say: Dear schools, this is the first determined attempt to live school autonomy in concrete terms. Let us gather experience here together, we transform this six hours of team coaching into a quality budget, and the school management decides, in consultation with the school community committee, to use it! It didn't happen. There is also a lot to be done at other corners. If the evaluation of the New Secondary School has promoted that the team teaching has not worked in many locations because the cooperation of AHS teachers and NMS teachers has not worked in the desired form, then of course this is a fact that indicates that cooperation in the Austrian school system is not well developed. This is not strongly anchored in our culture, nor, in general, clearly promoted at schools. The Quality Assurance Council for Education Newly notes that there are major shortcomings in the field of cooperation and cooperation in the Austrian school system. For these reasons, we make the following two requests: [[Quoted print version removed]] That also means: The use of social workers, trainers, mediators, psychologists, special teachers. The on-site educators – this is an expert profession! – know best what the right answer and resource allocation is on site. I would also like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Team coaching is a good thing to force it to be prescribed, wrong access is, and cooperation is urgently needed, otherwise, of course, these measures will not flourish.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e23171	The motions for resolutions tabled by Mr Dr Strolz, Mrs Cot and others have been properly tabled and are under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e23271	Next speaker: Mrs Gusenbauer-Jäger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e23289	Madam President, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Every child is different. In fact, this statement should be top priority for all educators and all responsible parents. In the past, all children were shaved over a comb. Each child with a certain age had to have a certain maturity, a certain spiritual development, and thus basta! Only with the introduction of the New Middle School was a paradigm change carried out here. Individualization was and is the main topic. Instead of frontal education, work plans have been introduced, weekly plans and learning buffets have been introduced. For all those who do not feel so firm in this regard, I would like to explain this: Learning buffets are those points where children can choose their own way to their goal. The teacher is no longer the sole means of knowledge, but the moderator, the one who accompanies the child on the way there. Learning is a priority. Learning from one another – all know that children learn best from children – is well studied – is very important. The presentation of learned people is important. [[Abg. Barbara Rosenkranz: What is a teacher for?]] I can now quote a conversation I had last week with the director of my New Middle School. He said that the current weaker children are much better than those in the primary school, because they hear much more, see much more. [[Call at the FPÖ:... can't hear?]] In contrast, the better children now go far more to the secondary schools. I don't think a better witness can be presented to the New Secondary School. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Walser: One should be able to prove it empirically, that would be ideal, but that is not possible!]] – I think you or Dr. Strolz have said that there is evidence from teachers who are on site. I think that's a director who has the say on the spot and he knows what he's talking about. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e23353	Mrs Himmelbauer is speaking next time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e23372	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! It has already been mentioned: This government template represents a small amount of autonomy in the field of the New Middle School. [[Abg. Stroll: That's it? That's it?]] – I'm still coming! It is about deciding for yourself how to deal with six hours of team coaching from the next school year and how to use it. It's clear: This is not a revolutionary step. It is a very small step that will hopefully follow many major steps that are based on ideas developed or developed in different working bodies, in expert groups, but also in the subcommittee of the teaching committee. However, it is already a fundamental thrust to not have to dictate everything from above, but that schools, teachers, parents, students, in the specific case can now choose priorities for which team teaching is useful, where a differentiated teaching can take place and thus what is on the doorstep can also be lived – be it in the scientific focus, in music, in sports, in the creative. I feel that location-specific, self-elected priorities are very positive in order not to have to do everything the same, but also to be able to offer a certain variety. Nevertheless, there are also priorities for me today, which I hope will be taught in all schools in the future, because I feel they are essential to young people. We have discussed in the Committee the report of the EU Commission or the Presidency, which stresses the importance of digital skills and digital skills for young people, because they simply respond to economic and social development. No question, there is a lot to be done in this regard. Media competence is set as a teaching principle, “efit21” deals with the questions of how e-learning platforms and communication tools can also be offered to schools, how teachers can be qualified. Nevertheless, Mrs Minister, I would like to say that it is no longer enough for us to teach only application skills – that is: How do I use Word, Excel or an e-learning platform? – but there must also be a differentiated discussion: Data protection, fundamental rights. What does it mean to be offline or online, what opportunities and risks are there? That is why I believe that in this area – according to the importance, as the fourth cultural technique in addition to reading, writing, computing – it also needs its own expertise: digital skills included with media competences. I hope you also support this concern.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e23406	Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, Federal Minister, spoke next time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e23425	Madam President. High house! Very soon: We are fulfilling a point in the government programme with this novel – we are even overfilling it. We had stated in the government programme that of these six hours in the New Secondary School we should make a third available to schools. Now we give 100 percent of these six hours free of charge, with no matter whether federal or national teachers teach, because in fact, in some regions it is not possible to get enough federal teachers as well. It is not only about team teaching, but also about individually accompanying children in seven possible variants, taking them out, accompanying them in small groups, promoting talent, making language promotion. There are many offers there. This may work well in the team between federal and regional teachers, but if not, only national teachers should be able to do so. That's what it is. We also want, of course, to make sure that what is going on in our schools is going on well. I'm confronted with good projects every day, and I think those of you who are parents know for sure how your children are doing in schools. I know that excellent work is being done and that everyone is trying very hard to ensure that children have a place of well-being in school, do not have to feel scared and that the students there can feel comfortable every day – and that over the many hours they spend there in the room, in the house and with the people they have to do with. [[Call the FPÖ:But practice looks different!]] Because only when you feel comfortable can you take in knowledge, otherwise it goes very hard. In restricted all-day schools, it is certainly even more relaxed and better than in the half-day school, where a lot has to be pressed in and perhaps in the afternoon a lot of things will not be so creative at all. These projects, which I see day by day, are partly contrary to the statements made here. I know there's a lot going on in our schools. It is not justified for us to discredit a school type that we have transferred to the general school system in 2012 in two steps – Generation I and II evaluation, where much has changed in the meantime. We know how it is. We have also long led the compulsory school inspectors to consider how this works with the six hours now and how the New Secondary School is developing. That means: The phase of the 10- to 14-year-olds is a very delicate, from age anyway, and I do not hide that I would wish for a common school. I believe that a common school up to 15, just as it is happening in France, makes sense to decide later on, to professionalize – for young people there has to be enough time for that. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: French private schools, yes, exactly!]] I think the debate in Austria needs its time. So there is a request with the model regions that we have long prepared, nearly also sent to the ÖVP years ago. [[Abg. Walser: Exciting – that's what you've prepared?- Oh, my God!]] It all takes its time. It's a shame that we're losing time in education, that's not a question, I see that too, but if I see that a door is wide open, you can be sure that I'll try to raise this door with your help. This is not always successful, some times we are too few, after all, school laws are in part two-thirds – not right now, but you know: If we want to change a lot in the school administration, and we're going to do that, we all need partners to do this. Small steps, such as the release of these six hours, bring more room in autonomy – and we all wish that I hear from all parties every day. There is already a lot of autonomy, but we should work together to expand it. I am very pleased that we have achieved together that these six hours will now be made available as much as the location needs, as especially the children need. I am very grateful to the educators, who are always not honoured enough. It should also be expressed and honoured for what they do in public schools, secondary schools and schools in general, vocational schools and higher education schools. I welcome this draft. I am very pleased that this will most likely be decided today. In addition, I believe that with the latest statistics in Austria, we can prove that the new secondary school has developed well – from a fear-free, non-violent school – in higher schools. I would also like to know that from many other school sites where this is not the case. Our common task is to further develop the school system as a whole. I really invite everyone to make a contribution to this.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e23489	The next item is Mrs Gessl-Ranftl's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e23507	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! The school law novelle, which is now before us for the decision, brings more flexibility in the use of hours in the new middle schools, a more flexible use of the hours from autumn onwards, which are certainly a further and essential step towards improved promotion of the talents of all children. In the future, the new secondary schools can now decide for themselves over six additional hours, which the federal government pays extra, in compulsory items, priority subjects, funding hours, performance courses or even gift promotions. This, in turn, brings a much stronger autonomy of the school sites, which I naturally welcome very much. More autonomy, however, also means a closer look at it at the same time. This means, in turn, that the use and quality must be monitored and monitored by the school supervisor. Even though the first tests and evaluations of the New Secondary School have yielded comprehensive results, I still see the New Secondary School on the right track. I am speaking – and this has been mentioned several times today – about the figures of Statistics Austria. They clearly show that the New Secondary School is better than its reputation. Students from the New Secondary School are better able to switch to higher education schools than primary school students. In the autumn of 2014, approximately 46 percent of graduates of a new secondary school moved to a higher school, but only 39 percent of primary school students. This is a clear proof that the New Secondary School is on the right track, and I am sure that the further development of the New Middle School concept is being undertaken diligently. The goal for me, also as a teacher, is, however, still a common school of the 10- to 14-year-olds, and this is best limited where lessons and leisure phases alternate. I personally think it is extremely useful not to separate children of 10 years of age, with 14 it would certainly be early enough.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e23544	Next speaker: Mr Hofinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e23563	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs Bundesminister, I would first like to take up your words briefly. I was really happy now that you brought such a beautiful confession to the teachers. In my opinion, one of the most important points we can contribute here is that we are opposed to teacher bashing. Teachers do truly wonderful work, and there they are absolutely supported. [[It was in favour of the ÖVP as well as of representatives of FPÖ and NEOS.]] On this subject, on these six hours, very briefly: Investment in education is, of course, investment in the future, that is, I believe, all clear, but of course it has to be properly invested. Unfortunately, I have to say from the evaluation of the New Secondary School that investment has not arrived, especially in the team teaching, Ms. Minister. But of course one is able to learn, and I am all the more pleased that we are now moving towards freeing these six teaching units in the sense of autonomy. In addition to the team coaching, there are various funding options or support measures, seven in number. In my opinion, one of the seven points is quite crucial: I believe, above all, that there is a great deal of potential in the formation of temporary student groups, and I also believe that this point can be used in many new secondary schools: that one can form limited groups and then deal with special needs. Of course, it is important to stress that we can address certain talents, qualifications and funding weaknesses and, of course, strengthen the focus of the school. But, Mrs Minister, I would have a small proposal, namely: We have now had an evaluation of the New Secondary School, and I believe that these seven funding measures and the flexibility of these six teaching units should be taken up again. I also absolutely believe that, after three years, we need an evaluation that will enable us to really see the effectiveness of the individual funding measures, and I believe that the issue of efficient use of funds should be addressed. To sum up, I see a valuable time for our students in these six hours, so I also see an essential step towards autonomy in the individual school locations, and I think that is absolutely positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e23606	The next item is the speech by Mr Preiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e23624	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. The New Secondary School is on the move. I think that's good, because standstill means a step back, and we all don't want it. With the current novel that the six additional hours can and should be used flexibly in the New Middle School, we are on the right path towards more school autonomy. We know that until now these six hours could only be used for German, mathematics and a foreign language, mainly English. In the future, together with the school management, colleagues in schools will have the opportunity to decide on the ground, to set priorities, to use the hours where it is necessary, and to put in place support measures to compensate for deficits accordingly. Of course, it is necessary to put in place evaluation measures, which, for example, also happens within the framework of education standards. In particular, school supervision is required to provide the school management and the educators with appropriate feedback. I can recall a media broadcast by Mr Walser, in which he says: Vorarlberg is to be Austria. [[Abg. Walser: Austria is to become Vorarlberg! Reverse!]] It is likely that the model region will be the common school of the 10- to 14-year-olds. Of course, I can't be particularly good at doing this. Just as well I could say: Burgenland should become Austria. We have been in the southern part of the country for decades already the common school of the 10- to 14-year-olds, which works extremely well. I can also say that the National School Council in Burgenland conducted a wide-ranging parent survey a few weeks ago, in which parents were questioned by students of all school levels. We received 72 percent of these questionnaires – a very, very high percentage. The parents were also asked how much their satisfaction with the New Middle School is. This survey was, of course, carried out anonymously. The satisfaction with the New Middle School is very high with 85 percent “very satisfied” and “satisfied”. All those who believe that there is a fundamental need for criticism are thus taught a better person. 85 percent of parents are satisfied with the New Middle School in Burgenland. [[Abg. Walser:... System maintenance?]] I think that is a good basis and a good starting point for us to have positive talks in the future towards deepening autonomy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e23672	The next item is the speech by Mr Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e23691	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I can start with a thank you, Mrs. Minister, because I know it's not easy for what you've done in the last government period. End With the new central matura, the area has been successfully managed. There is no one speaking today, there is no more slander, as was the case a few weeks ago. It's said that's going to be a nail sample, and there's been withdrawal requests to you. You can remember. There will be some more stumbling stones – including the new Matura – but the way is right is clear. The milestones we have placed in this place, I believe, are very crucial. The second area, which has expired in the shadow of the new Matura, namely the education standards for the folk school, for the 10-year-olds who have been equally professional and well handled, is also an important milestone. It is important for us to know what skills our 10-year-olds have. This too is an important step which some have been smiled at. In the meantime, it is a matter of course, and so it will be with the new teacher training. I am pleased – you know, I am a very committed fighter for school autonomy. That is why I am particularly pleased with the book: I would like to thank Mr Strolz for this and for the composition of this work. The work of NEOS in the field of education in the field of education differs greatly from the other opposition parties – I will come back very soon after that – because we do not divide much in content. Of course, you can look where there are differences, but you can also look for commons. I would also like to say this in relation to Mr Walser's request: The Mayer must have forgotten what he promised in Vorarlberg outside. . I can comfort you, Mr Walser, today I have handed it over to Mr Sieber, and I have also handed it over to the Minister. I assume that on Friday with the black-green government, it's good that this is coming. The quotations are all there: from the new Vice-Cancecian Mitterlehner, who explained at the party's meeting, he will not oppose a model region, by the minister who has declared himself to be the starting point anyway: If the head of state comes and wants something, I'll support him. Even Christof Waibel, the new blue education speaker – not just the old educational speaker – says, in other words, towards FPÖ: We need this common school, we need the model experiment. Teachership is nevertheless of this opinion. In Vorarlberg the ground is prepared, I am convinced that this will go well. [[Abg. Walser: That's not true now!]] I can comfort you, Mr Walser: If you still want to earn so much political small money, the application is prepared, and if that is positive on Friday, the application will be decided – as soon as you can not see – and the Vorarlberg model region can blossom. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e23727	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 531 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Walser, colleagues in the model region of Vorarlberg. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Walser, ladies and gentlemen, on the abolition of the seven-stage music scale. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Strolz, colleagues on multi-professional personnel resources at the New Medium Schools. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Strolz, colleagues on the promotion of cooperation in the school system. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. [[21:40:00]] 7. Point Report by the Committee on Education on motions for resolutions 1041/A(E) by Dr Walter Rosenkranz, colleagues on German as a ‘past language’ (601 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e23841	We're now on the 7th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e23865	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! In itself, this request is relatively simple, except that it comes from the liberals. I now confine myself to not saying what we mean, but I can introduce you into the world of dissident politicians, political leaders. The same application found support for the ÖVP in the Vienna Landtag. To this idea, the Upper Austrian State School Council President Enzenhofer says: It is a command of the house mind that you do it. He's part of the ÖVP. Since we have also taken an example from Berlin: This school in a district where there is a very high proportion of foreigners has also received a prize, Kurt Biedenkopf, former Prime Minister of Saxony from the CDU, also honoured it at a prize ceremony. But I can also turn to the SPÖ. This school project with German as a recess language also supported the former Bundestag President and then Vice President Wolfgang Thierse, a pillar saint, an icon of the left of the Federal Republic of Germany. He praised this project. And the former education senator of the SPD in Berlin, Klaus Böger, also SPD – I repeat it, because otherwise you don’t believe it – says: “Türken, Arab, Asian, Croatian, Pakistani, Czechs are best advised if they use the language of the country in which they are welcome: German.’ [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There is nothing to add to this – except that, if such a request comes from the FPÖ, all other parliamentary parties would like to reject it uniformly, reflexively. That speaks for itself. Since I have seen that the colleague Walser is also registered: In the context of the field of tension, when it comes to the liberties and the use of the German language, he always searches himself in some posters or other things that he always enjoys. [[Abg. Walser: I'm more scared!]] I'll take this sporty, my colleague, Walser. There was a poster in a copy that a touching candidate brought from us, as he wanted to address a current problem, namely closing a kindergarten. He made this a poster in the municipality of Horn, spitting with spelling errors. But I tell you one thing, Mr Walser: I am such a municipal councillor with the heart on the right spot that works for the citizens, rather, who will abandon the spelling errors. He was then elected there, because, unlike you, the FPÖ has won a mandate there. It is often better for the population to have the heart on the right side than to wear the nose too high as a high school teacher.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e23919	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e23937	Ladies and gentlemen! We discussed this request in the committee and wanted to postpone it originally, but then we agreed in the course of the discussion that we would like to take a very clear position and give this request a clear rejection here in plenary. I have expected, Mr Rosenkranz, that you will find out here and describe some problem, for which then Your proposal is a supposed solution, but you have not made this effort at all. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: weren't you in the committee?]] It is simply and simply about – I take that from your speech message – to forbid certain languages, so to prescribe that German is spoken during the break, and to forbid, under the cover of this provision, that children can use their mother tongue during the break. Nothing else is going on here. [[Abg. Kitzmüller:... meaningful listening!]] I ask myself how this should be implemented – apart from the futility of this proposal. Then, in school, you put in a pause-language police force, which then sniffs the kids and sees what language they speak? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] I have seen on the Internet what your youth organization is thinking of, namely sanctions, that if the children do not speak German but use their native language during the break, this should affect the note. So, where are we going? If you'd have shown the problem that there's going to be seclusions, then I think that's a... – Here you haven't made the effort. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: I did that in the committee! Didn't you listen?]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: You don't remember anything!]] . I said that you did not make the effort here, Mr Rosenkranz. If you had made the effort, I would answer you that I do not believe that this would be a suitable means of decomposition, because one can also decompose in German, if one wants to, but that it would be useful to counter it accordingly with pedagogical means or with the support of school psychology. [[Abg. Stefan: But go, that's stupid, that's a difference if I...! ...have you never heard of that before?]] Apart from that, colleagues and colleagues from the Freedom Party, there are also legal frameworks to be adhered to and to, namely, the Convention on Human Rights. [[Abg. Stefan: Do you have to read this?]] Such a proposal contradicts the right to private and family life and the rights of the child as enshrined in the Convention on Human Rights. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: I can't imagine that the Berlin SPD has something against human rights!]] That is why we will firmly reject this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e24058	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Däderle. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e24076	Madam President. Mrs. Ministra! High house! We have heard very often in the previous debate the great good of autonomy praise. I too would agree to this praise – increased school autonomy is certainly a key to a better school in Austria. The regulatory density of our schools is incredibly high, and it repeatedly prohibits initiatives and good ideas from below. That is why this is an important project which, as you can hear, finds the support of all. It is to be hoped that it will be designed accordingly, but there I am optimistic. I believe that a regulation such as that sought by Mr Rosenkranz as a general regulation has better place in the schools themselves. If schools think it would be a good idea to stop their children during breaks to increase the use of the German language, then they can take appropriate measures, for example, in the context of a house order. I do not think it is right to draw up a comprehensive regulation on this subject, which is still subject to sanctions. I think that this is an inconvenient means of serving the most desirable goal, namely the goal of increasing the German competence of retired children. That is an important objective, not a question at all, but the means that are being sought for this, I think, in the sense of autonomy, in the sense of a sanction that may then have to follow, and in the sense of a much too dense regulation. As I said, If teachers find teachers, it would be a good idea to stop the children during breaks to increase their use of the German language, then they will have opportunities to do so, but in no way should there be a general, comprehensive and sanctions. That's why I'm with those who think that we don't want to take such a measure, but that we should leave the autonomy of the school.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e24109	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Walser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e24128	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Col. Rosenkranz! FPÖ and German: Since my last speech, I have received a lot of broadcasts. Unfortunately, I cannot read anything that is banned by liberals on paper, but I can tell you that your functionals' work needs are by far the biggest, and I must say that I see something positive in the spelling weakness of FPÖ officials. [[Abg. Neubauer has a note showing an election poster of the Greens with the label “Hypo Albtraum Adria”.]] In Graz, for example, you have issued the brandy slogan, “new apartments instead of new mosques”, although neither the state nor the country of Styria does not of course build mosques. The only mosque built there is financed by the faithful. You are obviously opposed by the FPÖ; it is obvious that you can only believe in Catholic, evangelical, whatever. [[Abg. New builder: on the topic!]] Anyway: At any rate, you have tried to make your own internet homepage to mobilize people, yes to heat up, I say, against this construction of a mosque. However, luck in the whole matter: You were not even able to write the domain correctly. And the whole thing has failed because you didn't write "mose stop" properly. Fortunately, this has been discovered by Professor Claudia Unger, the head of the Afro-Asian Institute in Graz – and she immediately protected the domain with the right spelling. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] You see, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the weakness of the law in the free movement of mandates makes sense politically when it results in you not being able to continue writing their own writings. [[Calls and calls between representatives of FPÖ and Greens]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Am 31. May at the... I invite you!]] It is you, Mr Rosenkranz, who really need thought. There is a FPÖ mandatar in Gloggnitz – Gloggnitz is in Lower Austria, and there you are, Mr Rosenkranz, I believe, FPÖ LandesPartei Obmann – and this one writes, I quote literally: "The EU dictatorship's forced formation is progressing! Instead of pragmatic and meaningful solutions (e.g. Return cargo to Africa), they plan to import and divide, probably knowing that this human material is completely worthless and problematic for Europe.” Write this to the scribes of the liberals! You didn't notice anything. Only after this official wrote it did it happen that Mr. Hraball could be moved out of your party. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neubauer]] In the meantime, the prosecutor's office is on it. But that this one has written to your official by “system media”, by “consultation”, by “people betrayal”, by “cultural migration”, by “US re-education propaganda”, that he calls the EU President a “European traitor” and “US collaborator”, since you have not noticed anything, Mr. Rosenkranz? [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: We don't have a tip! We're not a Spittel party!]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Yes, I don't look at that! I don't even look at that!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] You have no other concern than that Turkish boys talk about football results in Turkey during the break – and that on Turkish?- Oh, my God! That's a problem, but what this one of your officials writes like this is not a problem?- Oh, my God! You are right, the FPÖ's spelling problem is not the biggest problem: The biggest problem is the content! Yes, Mr President, one must of course assume that Turkish children may speak Turkish during the break; that is a problem for you – and that is why you want to prohibit it by law! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Neubauer: Oberspitzel! Look at your own door!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] No reasonable person is against the fact that people in Austria are logically talking in German. What we are against is the prohibition of a language. And you want to set the ban on a language by law. [[Call the FPÖ:You already know that the official language is German!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] By the way, a poster has been missed, even with a spelling error. [[The speaker holds a poster on which to read: Austria needs more picture radio.]] – Can you read that? Do you find the mistake? – – Austria?, no that is written correctly. [[Call the FPÖ:Austria!]] You'd write Germany, I know. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the greens.]] But the mistake is in the word “image”, down there. We have used this poster to find free elections. We were successful in Vorarlberg with this. The Greens: plus 5 percent, the Freeman a clear minus. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] – Mr President, we will continue to work to ensure that we do so, and we are happy about every increase, especially when he comes from free circles – and this is increasing, Mr President! [[Abg. New builder:... 5 percent up!]] Don't get angry! [[New calls to the FPÖ.]] Let's see what science says. I'm just quoting a few people, such as Hans-Jürgen Krumm, Germanist at the University of Vienna, German as a foreign language and second language. Krumm says to Your proposal: “This is pure activism, and worse.” [[New calls to the FPÖ.]] Judith Purkarthofer works at the Institute of Language Science of the University of Vienna and says: ‘Language bans only cause damage.’ [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] And what does common sense say, Mr. Collegue? – Of course, we want all children to learn German and learn German from us, but we will not continue with bans, with the free way to deal with these problems, we will not succeed. [[Abg. New builder: How long are you at 10 percent!]] But fortunately, you are there, where you belong to this House with such proposals, namely completely in the distance, completely isolated. [[New calls to the FPÖ.]] All other parties know what to do in this context. And you'll stay in this distance, even if you're still so upset. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e24355	Mr Klubobmann Dr. Strolz is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e24381	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear citizens in front of the screens! We will not agree to this request by the FPÖ in German as a recess language either. It sounds very plausible at first glance, but it always returns to look at twice. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm]] Of course, conflicts result when you imagine that, as in schools, different languages are spoken. [[Intercessions by the Deputies Walter Rosenkranz and Peter Wurm.]] That's the way it is. I find it ideal to practice conflicts in school right now. I do not believe that the fact that different languages are spoken causes a conflict per se, but, of course, this can also play a role in a conflict dynamics. So, and now we are looking for solutions – and come to the simple solution: Then we forbid the other languages! But the conflicts do not disappear. I believe that we live in the society in which we live today, where Vienna now have more than half of the children in the popular school migration background, other answers need to be sought and found. [[Call from the FPÖ:60 percent]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Which one?]] It is quite clear – already readable by philosophers – that: Every language opens a new universe! So young people come to our schools with an additional universe, so to speak, and what are we doing? We forbid the universe – or how? [[Abg. Kickl: Maybe fundamentalist!]] I wish for my children that they also benefit from the additional universes that migrant children bring in here. [[New calls to the FPÖ.]] This is never a problem either, because all the experts say – yes, I am very much in favour of the children in school being able to speak German and speak German –: The starting point for successful German is, of course, the first language for migrants, the mother tongue. The problem is that often Turkish children are not able to get along with Turkish, and not German. And that starts with the fact that they can't get through Turkish. I wish they could learn Turkish! We should have this courage, also in Vienna. Unfortunately, the ÖVP Vienna is not such that it has the courage to say that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] Let's get this done, please. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Let us promote this, for this is a wealth, a treasure that we must raise in this country! Why should French be good and Turkish be evil? – Then study a little the map, the economic statistics, the cultural history! [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] It's a wealth, a treasure that we need to raise. Finally, a quote from a woman who needs to know it because she has to do with it every day, the director of a New Middle School, Erika Tiefenbacher: “We promote the mother tongue and tell the children: It is no shame if you speak Albanian, Romanian or Turkish, be proud of it and use the language. This is also a recipe that our students have learned to stand more self-confident in school and outside.” In this way, we are raising this treasure that the history of development of our society has given us along the way. We should work together on this! [[Call at the FPÖ:We build the future of these children!]] [[Abg. Peter Wurm: That's not world-wide! Where do they get a job?Unknown term type: "%s".?]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] You know, you're all alone – what I find reassuring.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e24505	The next item is Mrs Holzinger's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e24529	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! The language – I ask for a little more attention! – a common language is one of the most inclusive and binding elements in a society. I think that's for all of us inside. That's it. And that is why it is important to promote this common language, an understanding of each other and a common exchange. And here I am talking about promoting, because the way is just the right one if I support something – and not demanding it with compulsion. The way is the right one when I say: I support you on your way to speak a certain language, precisely because you understand each other so that you can interact with each other. [[Intercessions by the Deputies Walter Rosenkranz and Peter Wurm.]] But the wrong way is by stigmatizing. The wrong way is if one punishes for non-compliance with any regulations, which is certainly not something to support children in their common entertainment and community. [[Abg. Kickl: Schooling is the best example!]] It is clear that in Austria the language of teaching is German, and that is true as well. It is also clear that the common language creates closeness, but the prohibition of one's own mother tongue in the non-educated stages, in the breaks, it seems to be anything but integrative, precisely because children feel that their own language, their own native language is not worth so much. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Darmann.]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] That is exactly the opposite of what we want to achieve! Diversity is a challenge, which is perfectly fixed, but this request is a parade example of how humiliation of children with migration background happens. [[Abg. Kickl: Know what's going on in folk school!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] [[Prolonged condolences with the SPÖ and with representatives of Greens and NEOS.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] And this leads to mental stress, and exactly to what we do not want: that the children then do not want to integrate themselves, that the children do not feel absorbed by Austrian society. [[New calls to the FPÖ.]] We want to define German as an educational language, but at the same time we want to use the potential of multilingualism – as Mr Strolz has already mentioned – to use it, to build on it and not to ignore it. [[Abg. Peter Worm:... works...! What opportunities do these children have?]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] The problems we now have in the school system: chronic sub-financing, separation of children in the tenth year of life into different school systems, so that we cannot break the inherited levels of education. These are the points to be devoted to, and not to stigmatize, to bring children down because of their mother tongue and to shift back to educational and educational tasks. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: Out of school!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e24656	The next item is Mrs. Dr.ck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e24674	Madam President. Mrs. Heinisch-Hosek! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I am glad that our coalition partner in the committee then decided to reject this request with us, because I think we should make it public once again, how small the FPÖ operates and how it stands for overregulation. [[Abg. Peter Worm: Exactly!]] I mean, it's students who are taught in German anyway, and I don't think that the few minutes break without German can do some damage to German competence, especially since the school can decide for itself in the house order if it's necessary if there are any conspicuousness in students. [[Abg. Stefan: I thought it was against human rights!]] [[Further calls to the FPÖ]] That's what schools are already doing. Therefore, the decision should be left to schools who can assess whether it is necessary or not. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] And look at the adults, look at our foreign Austrians at international corporations! They also sometimes speak in the mother tongue. So: Let's leave the church in the village! I always say, House minds in front of the office, against overregulation, and the schools are supposed to regulate this in their school autonomy on the ground.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e24734	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Korun.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e24785	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In the 1990s I took Alsergrund in Vienna – in the 9th century. District – used to. And one day in the mailbox I was flattered by a flyer, a leaflet of the FPÖ Alserstadt, in which the FPÖ Alserstadt was very excited... – That's why, excuse, thank you for the correction! [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] [[Call:]] From the FPÖ As a reason, a leaflet has come in which the FPÖ has become awfully excited about the many children with a non-German mother tongue, with the claim that they could not even ‘letter’. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Holzinger.]] Now I already know that the FPÖ loves everything that is right to extreme right, but also the FPÖ does not have the right to rape our beloved German language, especially since it is a letter of law and not a letter of law. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: Don't rule out the left hands!]] And as with the German competence of some native speakers and native speakers under FPÖ, there are two examples of this today alone: For example, the motion for a resolution we are talking about here contains: ‘The Upper Austrian National School Council President (...) has issued a similar recommendation (...)’; or, simply to quote Mr Zanger of the FPÖ from his speech today [[Call:Now it's going to be funny]] I'm pretty macaber with you guys. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, You see: Having German as a native language is not yet a guarantee that one can express oneself in one's mother tongue, let alone that one - FPÖ - is careful! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm]] – can be written in law. Watch out! - Don't write a letter! With this request, you want to introduce nothing but a mother tongue ban in schools, saying for yourself that the recognised minority languages must not be banned; at least you know that. In other words, children should also be allowed to speak Czech, Croatian, Roman, Slovenian or Slovak in the Austrian schools. They can also speak English in some schools because this is the language of teaching, for example in the US school or at the International School. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: Everybody's going there!]] French is the language of lessons in the Lycée or in the Sacre Coeur. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: Lycée is the standard school in Austria!]] All the other languages you want to ban. As I said, One can also speak or write its mother tongue inadequately, some FPÖ members and mandates are the best proof of this. [[Abg. Kickl: This is important that all... understand!]] And like a great Carinthian and Austrian writer, Ingeborg Bachmann, said: “The truth is reasonable to man.” [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] In this sense: Hvala, spas, thanks and teşektur for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e24925	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Hauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e24943	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Obernosterer.]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I regret that this debate did not take place at an earlier date and will not be transferred live, because, I believe, your speeches will reach the population: that we continue to vote in elections. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you follow this debate and get involved in how you defend yourself against this proposal with hangings and strangles, which is a normal request and with which you only want to achieve that in those schools where German is a language of teaching, of course, German is also spoken in the breaks, you have to say that this is incomprehensible, because that is perfectly normal, please. What's not normal? – And you are going against this initiative. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walser.]] We want to solve a problem with this initiative. [[Calls to the Greens.]] Do you know what the problem is? – The problem is, I quote – current issue of the “standard” –: “53 percent more students with German problems in Vienna.” [[Abg. Walser: There aren't so many blues!]] I quote: “Schools with German problems: Vienna wants more money". Let's start speaking German! What about speaking German in breaks? - It doesn't cost anything. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Korun and Mr Walser.]] In Vienna, more language promotion courses are “requested” – under quotation marks – and this costs money. Why don't you let the students speak German during the breaks in Austria? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwentner.]] – What is the problem? It facilitates integration. And I can... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Korun.]] - Look, I let you talk too. Don't scream in between, sign up for a word again, once the suit begins, the whole thing starts! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Rejoicing with representatives of the Greens.]] Don't yell in there all the time. I quote from the ‘SPIEGEL ONLINE’: For example, a Berlin real school, the Herbert-Howover-Real School, has received a state prize. And what did Kurt Biedenkopf say? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] I quote: “Students, parents and teachers of the Herbert-Hover School have recognised the identity of the common language, have not waited for state regulations and have filled the concept of the nation with life through its pragmatic behavior,” says the Senate President of the German National Foundation, former Saxon Prime Minister Kurt Biedenkopf. [[Abg. Walser: Yes, no one speaks against it!]] The integrative effect of the common language is therefore an essential element. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] So, now on this thing. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Walser.]] Mr Mag. Walser, because you always take your mouth so full, I also say a word to you. [[Abg. Walser: Yes!]] It's a shame for me. It is a shame to find mutual language problems and language difficulties here in the House; You know that very well. We're always talking about the honor of the House. [[call to the FPÖ.]] You think that's an award if we have a debate here and blame each other for being unable to read, write, count, and, from the point of view of the population, we make an incredible amount of money. [[Prolonged calls from Mr Korun and Mr Walser.]] That's a blatant thing you're doing here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And I'll tell you one thing: They're not afraid of discrediting me personally either. [[Interlocutory calls by Mr Korun and Mr Arbitrators.]] That's what you did at the last parliamentary session. They are not afraid of that, although Mr Moser later apologised for two speeches. They do not frighten back from using fake posters that course on the web, against me or against us. [[Interlocutory calls from Members of the Arbitrators and Walser.]] Faith Do you really think that as a completed economic teacher, who has also taught, I am unable to write “know”? Faith You do? Faith You do? [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Korun and Mr Walser.]] [[Call at the FPÖ: There is an excuse due!]] You pulled out this poster. I would immediately have to relinquish my ability to teach as an economic teacher. The fact that you put this to us is a messy, bottom drawer, Mr Mag. Walser, who massively undermines the dignity of this house. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And something else to you: It is not my way of discussing at this level. But now I have a motion for a resolution by Mr Magn. Walser, friends and friends introduced to the last teaching committee – with two mistakes, please! [[Oh, call at the FPÖ.]] [[Oje-Rufe by Mr Korun and Mr Walser.]] I quote this mistake and read it to you. [[Unrest in the meeting room.]] I can quote from this request [[Abg. Walser: Do I have to enter the FPÖ now?- Oh, my God!]] "But problematic family conditions, problems in education careers, unemployment, imprisonment and making young men vulnerable to hate messages and violence." So that's not a reasonable sentence at all. [[Ongoing calls and calls between representatives of FPÖ and Greens.]] Do you give me a hand? – So this is the first mistake, Professor, Director, the first mistake! Let me turn to the motion for a resolution, let me make the second mistake. I quote again: “Children and young people should learn to deal with these issues as prejudicially as possible together and under expert guidance.” This too is not a German sentence, even there you made a mistake. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Mr Fekter, Mr Korun and Mr Walser.]] You see, Mr. Oberprofessor, Mr. Oberlehrer Mag. Walser, you see, the Green Club is not flawless. You're not flawless. Don't always ride over everyone else like that! Start with yourself and look at the dignity of the House! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e25211	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Committee on Education to take note of its 601 report of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[22:14:18]] 8. Point Report by the Committee on Equal Opportunities on Amendment No 1177/A(E) by Mr Mag. Gisela Wurm, Dorothea Schittenhelm, colleagues and colleagues in support of the UN Women Campaign HeForShe (620 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e25255	We're now on the 8th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Schimanek is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I give the floor to you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e25279	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Yes, Mr Worm and Mr Schittenhelm have made a request to support the UN campaign HeForShe. I must say, of course, that I cannot support this Nona proposal in this form. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwentner.]] We have already discussed this in committee. I admit, of course, that in many parts of the world there are different forms of discrimination against women. Let us look at India or in many Muslim countries where women are oppressed, raped and tormented! Of course, there is support here. I also know that Mr Aslan has rejected this request in the same tonality as I do. You'll agree. We have rejected him because I do not want to support such a half-hearted story. This UN campaign calls on men to support women on the Internet. [[Abg. Schwennner: Oh, oh, oh!]] This campaign has already been launched for a year and is aimed at achieving 1 million signatures up to the 5th. July, if I have it right in my head to get. Well, today 306,000 signatures are on this global UN campaign. I have to say that this is too little for me. I also think that this campaign is going in the wrong direction, because there are feminists who admit, of course, that they also need the men to support their concerns. We need a women's policy with heart and mind in Austria, and I miss it. We have in our committee, in the Committee on Equal Opportunities, many important and correct requests that are not dealt with. We have brought together the last committee, Mrs Minister – and I can't spare you this too – because we have put opposition proposals on the agenda. I say, for your part, that I really lack more commitment, more commitment to women. Since you've been busy with education – I'm sorry, I really have to tell you now – nothing has happened to women's politics in Austria. [[Interference of Federal Minister Heinisch-Hosek.]] You're in the government for 500 days now, and we haven't gotten a single government paper from you. That is why my recommendation is not to support this request. We'd have a lot more. I have listened to you very well today, what you have said about education. And you said you invited us to cooperate. You're welcome! I would like to accept this offer. I have many important and correct requests in the Committee. I hope that we will take a step further here too. Only: I'm afraid I'm missing the belief that there's really something going on.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e25329	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e25347	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The HeForShe campaign has already been supported by many celebrities. I quote our President Heinz Fischer, who said that equality between men and women is not a matter of women, but a question of human rights. I say that women's rights, equality, equality policy also have something to do with democracy, gender democracy, because: If half of the population does not feel properly represented – be it here in the House, whether it be in other representative bodies, whether at the economic level, or at the social level – then we still have a lot to do. [[Abg. Kickl: I feel represented by a woman too!]] This proposal is intended to contribute to this: that the second half of humanity – the men – confesses to equality policy, to greater justice in our country, to our society. I, gentlemen, would like you to join me. Support This democratically so important concern for greater justice in our society, so that the Gender Pay Gap, that is, the uneven wages in the same job, is removed, so that the men also participate in housework, so that the care not only remains the cause of women and so on! Tomorrow, gentlemen, you have the opportunity to participate in the hall from 9 a.m. Please take part in this so important action! [[Congratulations to Mr Jarolim and Mr Kucharovich.]] Heinz Fischer, Ban Ki-moon, Obama and many others are already there and support this so important action. Put a sign! Make an active contribution! It would serve our cause of greater justice for our society. In this sense, I hope that you will have broad support and support, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e25388	The next item is Mrs Schittenhelm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e25406	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear colleagues! [[Abg. Kickl: (in the direction of SPÖ) Beautiful greetings from the wife Ablinger I must align!]] [[Abg. Gisela Worm: Thank you, I'll see you tomorrow!]] HeForShe: Mr Wurm has said that this campaign was launched by the United Nations Women's Organization with the aim of moving as many men as possible to join public for equality between women and girls. This campaign is intended to raise awareness – that is the main reason and this is also the core statement – that equality between women is not in the sole interest of women, but in which the entire population, the whole society, must lie. Based on facts, data and related reports from all over the world, it is clearly documented and to be read that inequality between women and men in the world is dominant both in income and in family work. But also volunteer work is done almost exclusively by women worldwide. In Asia today 80 percent of the unpaid work of women is carried out. However, these documentations also show that there are the biggest differences in equality in those countries where the economy is underdeveloped and the population is affected by great poverty, where education and training are particularly lacking in order to allow for appropriate economic development. It is precisely in these areas that women and girls are affected by inequality. They are very often – and we know that – not only difficult access to education, but consciously denied it. As a negative example of inequality – that has already been mentioned – and the violence associated with it to women and girls is often referred to as India in the media – apart from the fact that girls are already expelled from pregnancy, especially in rural areas, and then, when they are born, they are killed because they are girls. In addition, the local men are not reluctant to rape and kill women in the public. This is an indisputable expression of women and girls being viewed as worthless. It is not in the least the talk of equality. It is only worthless that prevails there for women and girls. In addition, the violence done to women is impoverished from the male side, as an Indian minister has once publicly announced in the media. Ladies and gentlemen, we can also follow the media on a daily basis that women are not only victims of war in the crisis regions, but also misused in the war as civil shields, since these women are worthless anyway. 80 percent of refugees – especially within the African region – are women and children. Often, because of the physical inferiority, we know, it is no different here with us, women are also unprotectedly handed over to the arbitrariness of sexual violence. As a result, these women are often abandoned by their families and village communities. Men, on the other hand, are celebrated as martyrs and heroes. Even though we are far away from such conditions in Europe, in the Western world – thank God – intensive awareness work is needed, which must start with the children, and it is necessary to learn that values such as equality, respect, appreciation and recognition are not only to be imparted on a sustainable basis for girls and women, but ultimately to be lived before society and in society. [[Congratulations on MEPs from ÖVP and SPÖ.]] It is precisely this campaign that serves to raise awareness of appreciation, respect for women and girls. HeForShe not only aims to implement numerous projects to promote equality, but also to ensure closer cooperation between Member States and local governments. However, this campaign can only be successful if it has strong partners, and that is also when men confess to equality between women and girls. That is why I should like to ask you today – tomorrow morning from 9 a.m. on, the list of signatures will be in the hall – that you, as Members of Parliament, also register there, not only orally, but also with your signature on the equality of women and girls. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e25465	The next item is Mrs Aslan's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e25483	Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators in front of the screens at home! If we talk about equality, gender equality, this issue is usually considered a matter of women. But equality means much more. Equal rights is a question of power relations, it is a question of human rights. But it is also a question of democracy. It is our duty and our task to break these traditional role classes that continue to affect the lives of women and men, who continue to affect the quality of life and the opportunities in both professional and social development. Unfortunately, these patriarchal structures pass through all social levels. If we had a balanced, just relationship between the sexes, we probably would not need campaigns like HeForShe today. The emergence of these or similar campaigns is basically an alarm signal for all of us. It is a signal that we are still far away from equality, sexual justice and equal treatment. Of course, it is welcome and very important that campaigns like HeForShe, of course, be implemented in Austria. It is really embarrassing, however, that after months the Austrian Federal Government comes to the National Council with a single request, which, first of all, is based only on an existing campaign, which, second, already a year old, de facto is no longer up-to-date, which, thirdly, of course, says that the Minister of Women will support this campaign. But how should the Minister of Women support this campaign? – It does sound very nice, but it is not exactly defined how the measures and steps are to look forward to. It is not specifically defined how these projects should look. It is also not specifically defined how these projects are to be budgeted at all. I mean, if you do not already think of a concrete idea to apply for - I think that in the equal treatment policy we have so many construction sites that we should also bring in a lot of applications - then you should have at least taken the time to really consider what this support should look like. Don't be angry with me, but a pure declaration of will for us is too little for me. I just expect more from an Austrian government. Of course, we also expect the Austrian Federal Government to show a willingness to cooperate because, as I believe, it would really be a good sign if, as a whole Parliament, we could set a common solidarity sign with all our colours. But you did not do that, but before you came to the Equal Treatment Committee, you made advertising on your own by means of press releases and sold an existing campaign as your own success. In this respect, I think, in such campaigns, we naturally want to see a common, solidaric appearance of the Austrian Parliament, because equality, gender equality and equal treatment are all about us. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e25526	The next item is Mrs Schenk's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e25545	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! In general, my previous speakers have already said what this proposal is about in this initiative. We will, of course, support this proposal, because we believe that we cannot oppose it when it comes to equality or greater equality, and because the aim is to move as many of the boys and men as possible to publicly confess to the equality of women and girls and to become active in doing so. This is good and beautiful, but I believe that this will not be enough and will not bring much, especially since this campaign has been running for a year. On Women's Day 2014, this campaign was launched. The goal is a million signatures, a million supporters, and today we have around 306,000 supporters. In Austria there are about 1,400. So one sees that this campaign is not very successful, that not much has gone on and, unfortunately, even if it is very correct and good for the formation of consciousness, will not change much. I am also of the opinion of some of my previous speakers that there should be more initiatives, also by the representatives of the government parties and also by the Minister, because this one request, which, as I said, comes to the House with a year's delay, is not really much. We have tabled a number of opposition proposals in this committee, unfortunately most of them have been postponed. Some of the amendments have also been allocated to other committees, which we will also be discussing at the following item on the agenda and what I will say. I also believe that we should not devalue our committee – unfortunately, on the one hand, the delay is quite common – by always assigning applications to other committees. We can decide something there and then perhaps make a six-party request that there should be some support from our committee, and then assign from me the request to another specialist committee. But we are the Committee on Women and Equal Opportunities, and I think that it is too much to delay and is allocated to other committees and not dealt with in the Committee itself. This campaign, as has been said, will be approved by us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e25582	The next item is the speech by Mr Pock. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e25600	Madam President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First, I want to dedicate myself to the saying. In particular, I find it very exciting that the government fractions maintain in the application that the inequality of women is a violation of human rights. And now we hear from the colleague and chairman of the Wurm Equal Treatment Committee that there is multi-layered and structural discrimination also in our country, started with child care, which is not comprehensive, continuing with educational institutions, where there are too few full-time care facilities and parents cannot therefore return to full-time employment sooner. It goes on with the return to the workplace and the corresponding job situation that one no longer finds more difficult work in the job one had before it. This also leads to the fact that, if you are longer in part-time, you will lose a significant amount of pension later on at the pension. Part-time per year, the rule of thumb applies, at least 1 per cent, every year where you are at home, you later lose 2% of your pension. This leads to an poverty of old age which we cannot imagine today, and all of this you have probably meant in your description of discrimination against women in our society – when I speak of domestic policy. But now I'm wondering: You're right in all those points, but you're long enough in the government to change exactly those points. Exactly for that, you are chosen to actually solve all these injustices. You haven't done anything. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: But you also take your mouth a little bit full, honestly!]] If my colleague, Mr Schittenhelm, then speaks of the international situation for women, I will give her a completely right, and I would not oppose it either. However, I wonder why we are not going to deal with this issue in committee for much more than 12 months after the start of this UN campaign. I wonder, as my previous speaker said from the Greens, why do you not even try to involve the other political groups and find a common answer? Now I know that it is particularly difficult with the liberals, but one has also signaled a willingness to cooperate there, and at least there could have been a round of talks, then it would have been a stronger signal. The application itself is immeasurably weak. Why do most of the political groups vote in favour? - Because you can't be against it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] If we have not already solved the internal policy problems and respond only to the UN campaign over a year later, I wish you, Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, to give us clear signs, both of Parliament and of the Federal Government. However, I would also like to come to the Committee on Equal Opportunities and address three issues. The first is that the Equality Committee makes little sense in today's situation, as it is set up. Most of the issues being discussed there are a classical cross-sectional matter, similar to that of the Court of Auditors. This means that if we have applications, whether of government or opposition groups, in the committee, we should also be the competent Federal Ministers in the Committee to discuss these requests. Unfortunately, this is not possible at the moment. The second point is that all those issues that are being discussed will be postponed by a majority, do not come to the plenary session through rejection and no agreement can be found either. The discourse would be clearly expandable. But I would also like to say something positive: A great view compared to many other committees is in this case the Federal Minister Heinisch-Hosek, who responds in great detail to all the questions and is also very constructive in the debate, and I would like to thank you very much for that. - Thank you and a nice evening.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e25647	The next item is Mr Hell. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e25665	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Right ahead: I will also support this campaign tomorrow, not out of populism, but because I believe that the content of this campaign should also be our concern. Some of the projects planned are changing very hard or very slowly, one of which is equality between women and men in our society. I have been in the Equality Committee since 2008 and I know a lot of discussions. Mostly, it has been a matter of raising awareness in order to really get support from all areas. If you address gender equality at work, at the tribal tables or at events, you will soon find that it will be a very rocky path ahead of us when it is really about promoting equality between men and women. We have a motion for a resolution which is based on a United Nations initiative – which has already been addressed here today – with the aim of expanding the scope of work for gender equality. In recent years, these measures have been mostly implemented by women's organisations, and I believe that this initiative is now doing quite well, because it is moving in the direction that men should also support such demands. Studies show that an improvement in equality between men and women is essential to the acceptance and cooperation of men. This initiative is in place here. Finally, it must be said: There is a newspaper report showing that Austria has fallen to rank 36 in the field of equality. This should move us to think more about it. This report also states that it will take 81 years and longer to establish equal rights for men and women at work. That means that we have to take further measures here, and we can only do so together. That's why I'm allowed to ask you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e25706	The next item is the speech by Mr Sieber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e25724	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! On the HeForShe movement, which aims at equality between women and men, a lot has already been said by our women's speakers in the political groups. The overarching objective of this campaign is to strengthen awareness of the elimination of discrimination against women in all its forms in men and, above all, in young men – and, ladies and gentlemen, we in Austria too have much to do in this area. Of course, the standards are even better than in many other countries. Nevertheless, we must not fail to eliminate inequalities, and in particular we men should recognize that equal treatment is not a restriction of our possibilities, but rather a profit for all of us. [[In the case of the ÖVP, the members of the SPÖ and the Agg. Pock.]] How positive this co-existence of the sexes is, I personally experience in the agricultural field every day. For years, the farms in Austria have been increasingly handed over to the spouses in equal parts and then managed. This also means that the unit value, which is the basis of assessment for essentials such as social contributions, tax rulings and pension calculation, is equally shared among the spouses. This, in turn, means that farmers will receive not only the same pensions as their husbands, but also the better pensions through the accountability of child training times and care services. This is a small but positive aspect of the common administration of the Court. Ladies and gentlemen, I myself always personally experience how valuable it is to have my wife as a partner, co-delegator and also co-responsible at my side. Together, everything just goes better. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The HeForShe campaign is an important way to strengthen awareness especially among young men that this is an immense value for one another. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, every campaign is only as good as the people behind it. Today we have the opportunity to stand behind this campaign loud and clear. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The fact that you, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, are rejecting this campaign, Mr Schimanek, is a bit narrow, I say. [[Abg. Schimanek: No, no, no! You know exactly!]] The dear colleague Schimanek, it reminds me, above all, of a figure from Radio Vorarlberg, Mr. Alfon's mirror, which, with a special sentence, has greatly influenced the memory of people. He kept saying: Ass gives a lot to tua! Fantasy sho amol without me a! – And that you can understand this, too: There's a lot to do! Start without me! [[Abg. Schimanek: No! There are a lot of requests from me, a lot of requests!]] And we, by the other parties, are starting today with the fact that we are happy to give this request our approval and thus make it clear that equality must not become a keyword for us, but more and more lived reality and reality. [[Abg. Kitzmüller: What has prevented you from doing so?]] Today, with the approval of this request and tomorrow, Mrs Schimanek, we are supporting this action with our signature at the state of the UN action HeForShe, which is being set up in the column hall, and we are also making our opinion clear with a photo and related statements: HeForShe – we are there!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e25811	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We are now voting on the resolution on support for the UN Women's Campaign HeForShe, which is attached to the Committee's report 620 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. (E 81.) [[22:43:55]] 9. Point Report by the Equal Treatment Committee on Amendment 916/A(E) by Mr Carmen Schimanek, colleagues, on the calculation of the negative impact of part-time work on the amount of pension (621, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e25858	We're now on the 9th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Schopf is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e25882	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am referring to the request of the liberals, where it is ultimately called for that the Federal Government, together with the Pension Insurance Institute, should calculate scenarios, how the problem of part-time work affects the level of retirement, and this information may be assigned to the National Council. Ladies and gentlemen! We do not really need this request, because these scenarios and above all these calculations are known to us all. There are very great documents, especially from the Chamber of Labour, from the trade unions, where it points out in detail the effects of part-time on the amount of pension. [[Abg. Kitzmüller: Why didn't you do anything?]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have taken along a few examples. We know roughly one year of part-time – especially for ladies, because of the total part-time workers already over 80 per cent of the total female pension – is 1 per cent less pension. We also know, however, that if one year of work is interrupted, which ultimately means 2% less pension. It is not the problem of part-time, it is ultimately the problem of part-time pay, as it is ultimately very, very little paid in part-time and, above all, very massively affected by Members. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Two examples of pensions: When a colleague pays 45 years of contributions and receives a gross income of €1500, she has a pension of approximately €1 200. If the same colleague is working part-time and only 50 percent, part-time, works and thus only 750 € Deserved, she has a pension of 600 €. It is, above all, not the problem of part-time, but above all of payment. I think we should think and consider together how we solve the real problem! It is the problem that there are too few full-time jobs, especially for ladies – the rural area is particularly affected – that too few jobs exist for Members. We know – and again in the rural area – that we have far too few childcare facilities and therefore, above all, women are very, very seriously disadvantaged. We know that the opening hours in the field of childcare are a huge problem. Therefore, I think it is time for us to try to solve these problems, and then we will also get to grips with the problem with part-time and, above all, with the calculation of the pension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e25923	The next item is the report by Mrs Lamassoure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e25941	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We have recently discussed the Court of Auditors' income report, and it also has a median income for women in the pension of about €14 000 a year, and for men it is €24 000. After all, this is a difference of about 40 percent. These 40 percent do not come about because the women are always on the lazy skin, but because they have dedicated themselves to a very important task, they have taken care of families. It's a little more negative, though, if you look at the numbers. For example, there are twice as many women as men among the compensation beneficiaries: 117,000 women and 53 000 men, on the other hand, are entitled to a compensation allowance because they otherwise have less than € 840. And of the women who have micropensions – in some cases only €200, €300 – but are married and do not receive a compensation allowance because of this fact, there is still no talk. Clearly, pensions do not actually reflect the benefits that women provide, but they reflect the foreseeable insurance periods. Although Mr Schopf has said otherwise, the long-term part-time work is, of course, already playing a major role here. Applicants shall request calculations of the impact of this part-time work. There are so to speak, as a quick help, two options where you can already look at them: On the one hand, there is the rule that part-time pension is reduced by about 1 percent compared to full-time, and there is also the possibility to look at the part-time for yourself at www.pensionskon account.at. In order not to be misunderstood: I don't want to talk about part-time. According to a new study by the ÖIF, about 80 percent of women say they voluntarily choose them. [[Abg. Kitzmüller: Come on!]] When asked if they could choose full time and there were enough childcare places to change, they said no because they wanted to spend time with their children. So it is not about part-time per se, but about information about it, about the impact of long-term part-time. The Upper Austrian women's councillor has taken up the topic and has launched a series of events entitled "Women and Money – a relationship with potential". It was also very much about pensions, and for many women it was almost a kind of awakening experience that they noticed, there is a need for them to act personally. And the pension account news we all received has also shown this very clearly for many women. What can you follow from it now? – On the one hand, it’s clear that more information, more information, on the other hand, needs further improvements as to what women’s pensions are going on, i.e. the full account of four years of child care, regardless of the date of birth, and there is also the voluntary pension division, which is an instrument that usually benefits women but is very little used. [[Abg. Schimanek: Because it's unknown!]] And if we cannot agree on a mandatory pension split, it should at least involve in an information campaign. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In conclusion, further improvements are needed in the area of women's pensions, and this request for further treatment and for further improvement of the situation is therefore well removed in the Committee on Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e25995	The next speaker was Mrs Schimanek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e26013	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Before I come to the actual content of my speech, I would like to turn very briefly back to the last item on the agenda. Now Mr. Sieber is not here, but I wanted to congratulate him. That sounded almost like a virgin speech, even as the applause was with the ladies and gentlemen in the ÖVP. Now he's no longer here, but maybe you'll direct it to him. I've never seen him like that before! – But now on this request. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Prince.]] - That's right! But now to my request concerning the calculation of the negative impact of part-time work on the pension level: Mr Schopf, this is a request from the SPÖ women from Lower Austria of 28 November. November 2014, so this is still relatively new, and also your ladies and functionaries in Lower Austria want to have such a study. If you are saying that there is already a lot of things, then you can do so to us and, of course, to the Committee on Budgets, because if the request is now allocated, I am very happy if something goes on. This is indeed a very important issue, because many women voluntarily choose part-time – we have heard it – to stay at home with their children. And for me, it is also a very important point that women, if they voluntarily choose to do so, also know what the consequences are. For me, it is still a bit strange that if child care or care services are granted out of the ordinary, they are worth something if that makes the woman at home, then not – and that can't be so. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] However, in the Committee, I am sorry to have postponed a request, which is the one relating to the accounting of four full years of child rearing per child. – That was a bit strange already: This would have almost led to a break in coalition, because the ÖVP said clearly and firmly, yes, it would support my request, but the SPÖ is strictly opposed. . Well, unfortunately, I do not have much time, but I would nevertheless like to make this request again and give the ÖVP the opportunity to support this request here as well. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I'm asking for support.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e26080	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Carmen Schimanek, ladies and gentlemen, is therefore properly tabled and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e26178	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Schwentner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e26196	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Schimanek, I have also found her a little exaggerated, the euphoria, as you have called it, the ÖVP, that a colleague is talking about women's policy, but I have now thought a little bit about it, and in fact, even if it is unusual for the EIA to receive a woman's political statement or a states of equality from the side, I am still pleased and I would like to remind you for yourself that before you become completely hemisphered, we have repeatedly received requests from my colleague, who are then regularly submitted by you, discussed and explained here by you. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schimanek]] I would also like your party to see more men participate in the debate on equality issues. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kitzmüller.]] That's why I can't quite understand that you're making fun of it. However, we agree on your request regarding one – at least that. They write in the application concerning the report about part-time that it is very important in the first phase of life of a child or a small baby that it can establish a relationship with mother and father. – I see that from your side as progress that the father happens. He then disappears anyway during the further course of the application, but at least at the beginning of life he is there. But then the women should remain in part-time, as voluntary as possible, because they are all supposedly voluntary in part-time, as we have now heard from several sides. I would say that this is a supposed voluntaryity, because exactly from your party comes the word “voice”. – Yes, but we have freedom of choice only if we really have the choice, namely those between one thing and another, between childcare, possibly out of the ordinary, but also other forms of care, or part-time forms, which allow father and mother to stay with their children. [[Abg. Kitzmüller: Support for families!]] [[Congratulation with greens, SPÖ and NEOS.]] [[Abg. Kitzmüller:... ask if they want or not!]] That is why I do not think we need this report – I can join my colleague, Mr Schopf. We have the figures, we know where this is going, we know what is causing too long employment in part-time, namely the poverty of women, which we have already heard. We all got the pension account first credit. Many women had a first shock when they saw what that means to them, that it means that they too must go into employment. That does not mean that all full-time work needs to be done, the question is: How do we find new forms of part-time with good jobs? – The top rider at the part-time is Holland. Austria is second in place, but Holland makes it quite different and, for quite other reasons, is first and foremost Europe in terms of part-time employment: that is because there is a good job sharing, because there is the possibility of going back from part-time in full-time, because in the course of an employment biography there are simply different forms of reduction in working time. I think we have to get there and not always separate between: The mother must stay at home or in part-time!, and then we ask ourselves: Oh, why are all women in the pension poor, or does the father overtime and overshadow his working life! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e26274	The next item is Mrs Schenk's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e26292	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schopf, to your speech: If we have the numbers, why, for example, does she not have the Minister? Why do we have to assign this proposal to the Committee now and why have we not been able to do this in the Committee on Equal Opportunities? Nor do I think that the agreement here is not so great if I hear and compare the statement of Mr Schopf and that of the colleague. There are also differences as to the request for this request. It is also not explicitly about women having to stay at home because they work part-time, it is about meeting this demand and having figures, having comparable data, and I am sorry that this is not the case. – In fact, the Federal Minister should have these materials, otherwise I would have to ask myself what calculations and what numbers are being worked on here. Part-time is an important issue that has already occupied us more often. The problem, of course, is also the lack of childcare, Mr Schopf, that is quite right, but something has to be done. They have been in the government over the past few years and decades, and unfortunately there are still shortcomings, because unfortunately there are still no sufficient childcare offers, even the closing days of kindergartens are often not compatible with the holidays. Especially in the western federal states – in Vorarlberg, in Tyrol – there are a lot of closing days, it simply doesn't matter. The fact is that, as mentioned earlier, Austria has the second highest value within the EU in terms of part-time work. Part-time is female, which is also a fact, and the Court of Auditors has also noted this in its recent report on income comparison. Almost every second woman works part-time; 20 years ago it was every fourth woman. So this is also a topic and a point that should give us thought! [[President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions:]] The main motives for part-time have already been mentioned, which are the childcare and care of the needy family. More time for unpaid family work, of course, means deductions in the pension and poses a risk of poverty. I hope that this proposal in the Committee, where it is now assigned, will not be rejected, but that these figures will be raised and that this material will be made available there, because I believe that we need this basis in order to be able to move forward. I hope that this proposal will not be rejected, but that it will be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e26345	Next, Mr Magistrate. Loacker to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e26363	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! FPÖ would like to have a study on the impact of job interruptions in women. – Mr Schopf has stated that it is very easy to calculate how the effects are. Fatal consequences have many years of part-time work and have long-term full-time job breaks, but there is no need to be a prophet for that, nor do I need any studies. In reality, we need to increase women's living income, and this is only when more is worked when there are good opportunities to reconcile work and family, and when it is thus possible to work faster and work less in low part-time rates. What does not work is if the government provides incentives to stay in part-time, and an increase in the negative tax is exactly such an incentive to stay in part-time, because it does not pay off to work more. Thus they do not make a good contribution to increasing the employment rates of women or to reducing the level of parttime work of women. When it comes to the division of pensions, Mrs Diasper, I think it is important to ensure that not half of the income of the working partner is allocated to the other, but that both incomes are added and split, so that both sides benefit from the increased labour use of each other. As far as the overall billing of child rearing times is concerned, I believe that this is sufficient. I don't think it's right to calculate child rearing times twice. – You say you always want four years for each child. But if a child is two years old and this child gets a sibling, then I can't double the next two years because the income only fails once and not twice. With your method, the Members of Parliament would loosen up to 60, 70 years of contributions if you fully reckoned to each child of four years of age. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kitzmüller.]] That can't be in the inventor's mind, and someone's got to pay for it at the end. Who's gonna have to pay for it? – According to your logic, the working men, and thus it is only quite again “left pocket, right pocket”, and you have not served the women or the families as a whole.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e26415	Next speaker: Mr Christ. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e26434	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Schopf has said everything about the essential figures and the facts here. I would like to take advantage of the opportunity and They focus their attention briefly on other issues in the part-time field. A quarter of women working part-time would like to work more, and the younger women would even be the third. Part-time employment is 84 percent female, which has already been said. Why is part-time work done? – 10 percent because you could not find full-time jobs, 20 percent because you simply do not want to work full-time, 34 percent because you have to work part-time due to child care or care of adult relatives, and 18 percent because you have other personal and family reasons. However, it is also essential that part-time workers earn up to 24 percent less hourly wages, and that is really not funny. This is particularly pervasive, especially in retail trade. 90 percent of the employees there are women. Part-time working hours are often antifamily because they start later in the afternoon and walk into the later evening. Of course, these special working conditions are not paid extra. I personally know a service contract from the retail trade, from a very well-known women's boutique, with 20 hours laid down in this service contract, but is informed at the recruitment meeting, 40 hours are expected, of course without special compensation, even not with payment, finally, woman works in a well-known boutique. This condition cannot, of course, be accepted, and that is why we must increasingly devote ourselves to: Just pay, fair working conditions, proper handling of employees must be of course. Works councils and trade unions are trying to do this. We Social Democrats support this as far as possible, but we know there is also a second negotiating page, and this is particularly required here.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e26477	Mrs Diesner-Wais has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e26495	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in plenary! We've got one. The pension account was created in January 2014, and therefore, of course, occupational interruptions or part-time jobs are now increasingly affecting the pension level. This is true, as we have already heard from my previous speakers, especially the women, because they are active in childcare, care and also in the household. We see this particularly impressive when 70.6 percent of women between the ages of 25 and 50 are at home with their children under 15 and are therefore only doing part-time jobs, while men are only 6.5 percent. It is also true that young women often don't think about how they're going to be, because that's still a long way away. We have already heard that part-time employment has, of course, negative consequences on pension. Children's education times are already higher, but it's our goal, of course, that every child is equal in value here and that the four years are counted. My colleague, Mr Schimanek, has tabled a request and has also asked us to vote in favour. I would like to say that this point is being discussed in the pension reform process, because there are more things and more demands that we have. We should see this as a whole, so we cannot accept the single request today. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kitzmüller.]] Indeed, many women have only got their future pension so right now that the information about the pension account and their pension claim has been sent. A main association statistics that women receive a mean pension of €852 in 2013, while men receive by 51.8 percent more, i.e. an average of €1 769. Of course, solutions for the future are really needed, because otherwise, what has already been mentioned is that there is an poverty of old age. However, it must be possible for women to work part-time and be at home with their children, so it is up to us that these times in pensions are better accounted for. In this respect, solutions need to be sought, and there is, of course, the introduction of the pension division, just as it has already happened in the agricultural sector, important – of course based on voluntaryness – where the partners acquire insurance periods and pension entitlements at the same time. In this sense, I think it is ideal for us to assign this issue to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, where everything is dealt with as a whole. We hope for a good solution.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e26535	No one is reporting on this. I will close this debate. We come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Equal Opportunities to take note of its report 621 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. [[Abg. Bures: He's assigned!]] [[Further calls at the SPÖ: This is assigned!]] – First of all, let us take note of the report, and then I will assign it. This has been adopted unanimously. I now accept Amendment 916/A(E) to the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. Debates of the European Parliament I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[23:10:41]] 10. Point Report by the Committee on Equal Opportunities on the proposal from the European Parliament and the Council to the Council (Doc. Aygül Berivan Aslan, colleagues on gender health and health report (622, e.g.) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report by the Committee on Equal Treatment on Amendment 860/A(E) by Mr Michael Pock, colleagues in the field of non-discrimination (623)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e26603	We now come to points 10 and 11 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. Oral reporting is not required. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mrs Schenk is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e26630	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! We have now reached the last two items on the agenda, and two allocations are to be made to the Health Committee. One request is from NEOS, which we do not agree with in terms of content, and neither will we agree with the allocation, because a similar request from my knowledge is already in the Health Committee. The second is a request from the Greens on dual tracking or lack of comparability, as the reports on male health and for women's health are dealt with in different sectors. The application is a good example of administrative reform, and the Court of Auditors has recently noted in a report that it would be more effective, more effective and, above all financially, more appropriate to comply with the demands in this proposal with respect for the male health report currently distributed to the Ministry of Social Affairs, and then to submit a comprehensive report to the National Council in order to make it easier to compare it in order to have better numerical material and thus to treat it more efficiently. On women's health: We have also discussed the prescription of medicines in the Committee – this proposal has unfortunately been postponed – and there are, of course, great differences. There are things that need to be specifically addressed, and there is a study in progress or, as we have been told in the Committee, there are discussions on why this request has been postponed. We are excited about the results, and I hope that in the future, dear Chairman Gisela Wurm, we may also be able to agree that we can deal with more in committee, as I mentioned earlier, and that we can also agree on setting initiatives for women across party borders. I invite all the representatives of the Committee and would ask you to accept this matter so that we can do more together and treat more in the Committee in order to upgrade this Committee and not pass it on to other committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e26664	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e26682	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Schenk has already mentioned that two requests are now being discussed under one. I would also like to address the request made by the Greens, who, in my opinion, would like to see a report drawn up instead of the various health reports – whether the report on women's health, whether it be the so-called male health report, the child health report or the youth health report – and to be discussed in the same committee. In this case, the assignment to the Health Committee is more than entitled. I can well remember how we discussed the health report in the Equal Treatment Committee in 2011 – discussed in depth, with an expert hearing. And it was also, as far as I remember, the then appointed professor of women's health at the Institute of Gender Medicine of the Medical University of Vienna, Prof. Kautzky-Willer. The Committee has also discussed the various research already carried out in the area of women's health, as has already been said by Mrs Mückstein, and it has been found that further efforts are needed. Ms. Professor Dr. Margarethe Hochleitner, who has conducted studies on the different symptoms of women and men in heart attack, has shown that on the other hand, it is also very necessary to check how drugs work in women and men. The medications should be treated differently or researched accordingly. All of this will be more effective if health reports are discussed in a committee. In this sense, I hope that we will then be able to achieve this in the Health Committee and put in place the appropriate measures.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e26721	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Aubauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e26740	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! All of our health is an important topic. Thank you to the colleagues of the Greens who submitted this request. Yes, it makes sense – and it is also a long-standing demand of the ÖVP women – to pay more attention to the differences between women and men in medical practice. 85 percent of the studies are carried out on men, but we women are not the “smaller men”, and it has been shown how Mrs. Col. Wurm carried out very correctly earlier that heart attacks are seen far too late in women. There is too little research and not the appropriate measures. That means we need data that both sexes show in order to be able to provide better. It is also repeatedly confirmed that Austria is final in the case of gender-specific precautions in the European comparison. Similarly, it makes sense to have a single, comprehensive report, so that a ministry such as the Ministry of Health does not produce a report on women's, children's and young people's health and the Ministry of Social Affairs's own report on male health. You have done this perfectly correctly, and you are actually wondering why it is. It is good that the Court of Auditors referred to it. The Court of Auditors also says quite clearly and clearly that this separation is not appropriate and is not very targeting. Now the Health Committee will focus intensively on this – good prospects at the end of such a controversial day. Yes, we want to take more account of differences between women and men in health care. We have already presented the women on the Vienna pedestrian traffic lights – super original, and there should be much more to follow, namely also in these very important areas such as health. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e26776	Next come Mrs. Dr. Mückstein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e26794	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! I'm not going to say so much about gender health now. I am pleased that Mr Wurm and Mr Aubauer have already very much welcomed our request in advance. Of course, it is very important that these reports come together to have the overall review of gender health. We need a comprehensive basis, precisely because of the reason why we can distinguish it accordingly. Women, health and gender equality in health, these issues are still under-exposed. Women suffer a lot more from drug side effects, often also have serious problems associated with heart attacks that are overlooked for a very long time. Women also take more antidepressants: 70 percent more than men. These are all conditions which should not be so and which therefore require a corresponding reprocessing. This request is allocated to the Health Committee and I hope that we can work it out positively there. I was a little sad that the second request concerning a package of measures Gender health has been postponed, with the “argument” that there is anyway a working group dealing with gender health. From my own experience I know: This is a very, very long history, because in 1995 there was a women's report, with which gender health was very strongly brought to the attention, and at that time there was a strong dynamic, according to the motto: That's what we're gonna do. And I would like to point this out again: In the meantime 20 years have passed, and in these 20 years there has not really been something essential in this area, all to the detriment of women and their health. Second issue: Donations without discrimination for homosexual men. In Austria, it is common practice that a homosexual man, if he wants to donate blood, is rejected after a consultation, because of his sexual orientation and not because of sexual risk behaviour! In the case of heterosexuals, this is only so if they have unprotected traffic, and only when changing partners are indicated. Exclusions due to risky sexual behaviour are of course in order, and so should be explored and asked, but exclusion due to sexual orientation is discrimination. I think it is clear to all of us that this is massively depressing for homosexual men and that such prejudices are simple and simply not acceptable anymore. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Especially the Red Cross shows itself critically resistant. We have had events and discussions several times – and unfortunately we have to say: There's nothing going on. – There is now God thanks to a judgment of the ECJ, which says there must be no more flat-rate prohibitions on blood donation; homosexual men can be excluded from the blood donation, but only if all alternatives have previously been excluded, i.e. if the appropriate test methods have been applied, an accurate survey has taken place and can be concluded on HIV risk due to these results. Yes, this request, which comes from the NEOS, which we believe has been written off by the Greens, because for years we have been applying for it, has been assigned to the Health Committee. [[President Head gives the bell sign]] In addition, we Greens have also made a very up-to-date request for the ECJ to be implemented in a national regulation under the Blood Donation Regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e26853	Next, Mr Magistrate. Loacker to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e26871	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! On the subject of non-discrimination, Mrs Mückstein has carried out all the arguments in full, and I do not want to stress you unnecessarily at this time, but only to say very briefly: It is about distinguishing according to risk behaviour – and not according to sexual orientation, because this is a prejudice-based classification. Therefore: One should focus on the matter, on evidence and logic. - Thank you, Eva Mückstein, for doing this so beautifully.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e26901	Next word: Mrs Kucharovich. Your club has only one minute leftover. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e26920	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! Still – and that in 2015! – people in Austria are discriminated against because of their sexual orientation. This is reflected in this request made by Mr Pock, which is precisely what the blood donation is all about. Short: It is clear to us that we want a quick solution in the field of health so that homosexual men are not still discriminated against. However, I would also like to take this opportunity to address discrimination due to sexual orientation, and I would like to mention the levelling-up and say: I think it is inconceivable that lesbian and gay couples from locals should still be expelled and not protected there – and that the levelling-up from the agenda was kicked out of the agenda by Mr Vice-Chancellor yesterday's Council of Ministers. Such a thing is unbearable; we write the year 2015! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In short, because I no longer have time to speak: Let’s not all talk about “Building Bridges”, but let’s do it! At this point, I very much appeal to the ÖVP, to Mr Vice-Chancellor, to rethink his position and thus – again: we have the year 2015 – to respect the protection of the discrimination of homosexuals. Accept the levelling-up!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e26966	Preliminary word reference to the following: Mrs Dipl.-Kffr. Pfurtscheller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e26984	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Yes, everything has already been said about non-discrimination-free blood donation, just not by everyone. That is why I will be very brief; my previous speakers have already made very clear what it is all about. I would just like to mention one aspect that should not be forgotten: Blood donations can save lives; no compromises should be made with regard to the safety of blood and blood products, but a risk assessment should not, of course, be based on prejudices, but must be rationally balanced. In this sense, we also support this allocation to the Health Committee by the EIA. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e27015	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. Vote on agenda item 10: Proposal from the Committee on Equal Opportunities to take note of its report 622 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. I accept the proposal 1006/A(E) to the Health Committee. Agenda item 11: Proposal from the Committee on Equal Opportunities to take note of its report 623 of the supplements. Whoever is for that, please give a sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. I also accept the proposal 860/A(E) to the Health Committee. [[23:28:38]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-20-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00073_d8e27091	I am still announcing that in today's session the self-employed applications were tabled from 1136/A(E) to 1181/A. Questions 5019/J to 5066/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations will be convened at 23.29 a.m., which is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
