ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e5287	Ladies and gentlemen! I will open the first meeting in the new year, the 57. Meeting of the National Council, which is based on a sufficiently supported request in accordance with § 46 para. 7 the law of the Rules of Procedure was called up, and wish you all the best. The official protocols of 53 and 54. Meeting of 10. ==References====External links==* Official website Meeting of 11. ==References====External links== Meeting of 11. In December 2014, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. For today's meeting as prevented, MEPs are reported Keck, Kuzdas, Lipitsch, Eßl, Grillitsch, Dädele, Minzig, Karlsböck, Kunasek, Neubauer, Winter, Zanger, Lichtenecker, Julian Schmid, Franz, Hagen and Pock. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e5318	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following statement: The Federal Minister for Education and Women Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek is represented by the Federal Minister for Art and Culture, Constitution and Media Dr. Josef Ostermayer. Memories for the Victims of the Paris Terrorist Attacks
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e5351	Ladies and gentlemen! A few days ago, 17 people were shot skrupellos in a devastating terrorist attack in Paris. These murders were cowardly attacks on innocent human lives as well as the inner security of a state. And they were equally an attack on the fundamental values of our democratic society, on the freedom of the press, on freedom of opinion and on the freedom of faith. How strong our values are has been demonstrated last Sunday by the fact that thousands of people here in Vienna and millions throughout Europe have demonstrated their solidarity with the victims and their determination in the fight for freedom of expression and democracy. Such acts of terror are strongly condemned, and we will not allow them to endanger our freedom and our democratic values. Freedom will prevail! Ladies and gentlemen! Our solidarity applies in these days to France and our compassion to the families and friends of the murdered. In order to put a visible sign of this solidarity and a sign of distress and in deep sorrow for the victims of these cowardly attacks, I am looking for you to rise from the squares for a minute of memory. [[Those present rise from their places and spend some time in silent remembrance.]] Thank you. [[Those present take their seats again.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the Federal Chancellor and the Federal Minister for the Interior have each announced their intention to make a statement on the issue of “Common Against Terror”. There is a request by five Members to refer to this declaration in accordance with § 81 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure. [[09:10:58]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e5401	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e5641	According to § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure requested urgent consideration at the beginning of the sitting of the written question 3412/J by Mr Klubobmann Strache, colleagues and colleagues to the Federal Chancellor concerning the events surrounding the Hypo Group Alpe-Adria. Under the Rules of Procedure, the request for urgent procedure will take place at least three hours after the date of entry into the agenda, i.e. at about 12 noon. Let's go into the agenda. I announce that this meeting will be broadcast live from ORF 2 to 10.30 and from 12 a.m. to 1 p.m. and from ORF III. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e5671	A consensus was reached between the members of the Presidential Conference on the design and duration of the debate on the statements by the Federal Chancellor and the Federal Minister for the Interior: Declaration Federal Chancellor 10 minutes, Federal Minister for the Interior 10 minutes, one round of speakers per group with 8 minutes each. The call for speakers is based on the strength of the political groups. We shall now proceed to the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign in this regard. – This is unanimously accepted. [[09:12:39]] Declarations by the Federal Chancellor and the Federal Minister for the Interior pursuant to Article 19(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council on “Common Against Terror”
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e5713	In this way, we now come to the statements of the Federal Chancellor and the Federal Minister for the Interior according to § 19 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council on "Common Against Terror". Mr Bundeskanzler, I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e5738	Mrs. National Council President! Dear Members of the Federal Government! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Security is guaranteed in Europe if it is strongly defended, because of the conviction of the population in Europe. ropa, for values of human dignity, religious freedom, freedom of speech, freedom of expression, and active participation. The commitment to Europe's values expressed by the clear language of the population, its attitude, the awareness that it is a matter of heart, and by the statements in peaceful living together, will decide whether democracy is stronger than any terrorist. I am firmly convinced that solidarity, which has been felt in Europe in the last few days, has been expressed in particular in France, shows how strongly the values of democracy are in Europe. Nevertheless, I am also convinced that it is necessary that there is a clear commitment to democracy's rights every day, that these values are brought to the fore every day, and not only when a crime or a particular disaster has happened. This will decide whether we will achieve peaceful living together in freedom in this generation and in the next generation. To make Islam’s religion responsible for the crimes of the perpetrators – any generalization, any degradation – has lost nothing in a free world that advocates a peaceful cohabitation, for a respectful cohabitation. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP, Greens and NEOS.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] Many Muslim organizations have made a strong commitment to violence and freedom and democracy. It is not the time, and it is never the time to play religions and people against each other, but it is necessary to carry out the right analyses and then draw the right conclusions. Victims remain criminals, and the fight against terrorism is a task that states and the security forces have to carry out together. And social conditions are also crucial to whether we can defend our freedom in these and in the next generations. The commitment to peace and freedom was shown on Sunday by the common appearance of the faith communities. And I would also like to thank the many Members and representatives of the federal states who were represented in the rallying, mourning and contemplation at Ballhausplatz, as well as many thousands of people who have followed this on the television screen and who have been affected by the crimes and events in Paris and have not just passed over to the agenda. I am convinced that a secure Europe also means social security. There is a connection between fighting unemployment and giving people a chance to give you the feeling that democracy is strong enough to enable a decent life with opportunities. I am also convinced that the Enlightenment, beginning, of course, in schools, which will decide many public discussions on whether we in Europe will be strong enough to help our values to break through. At the same time, however, we see with great concern an increase in anti-Semitic violence in Europe, which must not be indifferent to us in Austria. I refer to the attacks in Brussels, the deaths in the koscher supermarket in Paris or the numerous threats of death against Jews in many European countries. In France, thousands of security forces must be ordered in order to protect these institutions because of the unheard-of threats against Jewish institutions. This is correct and necessary, but it must also be called by name. This means that after more than 6 million Jewish victims, including 1.5 million children, anti-Semitism has not yet disappeared from Europe in the Holocaust. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Any kind of hatred, any kind of degradation and only quite anti-Semitism have no place in a free democratic society! [[General condolences.]] It is also to be thanked to the security forces – the Minister of the Interior will do so – for the fact that security measures have also been taken in Austria and the alert has been strengthened. We can be proud of our security forces, and it is also up to us to thank them once, at a time when it is also meant for the security forces to meet additional requirements in the interests of our community. [[General condolences.]] The political framework conditions for security forces include many things: legal regulations, I would just like to remind you of the anti-terrorism package that was decided in December, measures such as the prohibition of terrorist symbols, border controls, the whole problem of IS returnees, the return from crisis areas and the strengthening of the Federal Office for Constitutional Protection and the fight against terrorism. The security forces must be able to rely on our full support in the future – as is the case in the present case – so that they can find the framework conditions they need to carry out this task. Since I am convinced that politically clear and unmistakable measures – without When and But, behind doors and slightly hidden indications – will make us strong enough – in Europe, in Austria, to fight terror, every clear rejection of hatred, and only quite any clear rejection of crimes and terror – in Europe, in Austria – I know: Democracy is stronger.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e5838	Thank you, Federal Chancellor. Mrs Bundesminister, I now give you the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e5862	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Estimated government colleagues! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! In these dark days, our thoughts belong to the survivors. Think of the survivors of all the victims of the disgusting crime committed in Paris – a crime committed in the name of extremism. This extremism has been the victim of countless innocent people – men, women and children – in recent months, innocent people of all faiths, in Europe, Asia, Australia, America and, above all, in Africa. I think I can speak here on your behalf, too, when I say that our compassion applies to the family of all these thousands of innocent victims. No one will ever forget the terrible events of the past week. The whole world has looked at Paris, France in these days, and we have all felt close to France, connected with Paris, and declared solidarity. It was a week characterized by brutality, cruelty, which seemed unthinkable a few days before. The attack in Paris was an attack on Jews, on Christians, on Muslims, on all the people who value freedom and tolerance. It was an attack on the to the whole free world. It was an attack on the diversity and cohesion of our society. The aim of these criminals is to split our society. We must not allow this very column of our society, otherwise the criminals have already won. The aim of these criminals is to restrict us, to intimidate us, to restrict us in our freedom of expression, to the freedom to practice criticism, especially in the form of cartoons. The message of millions of people who have gone to the streets in recent days, especially in France, despite the continuing threat: We are not restricted in our freedom, we are not restricted by these murderers! is quite clear. We know that there are individuals in our society who do not understand our rights of freedom, and others who deliberately fight these rights of freedom. That is why we must oppose and actively make clear to every individual and every individual why it is worth fighting for our freedom and not against it, because the appreciation of our rights of freedom through each individual is probably the best and strongest weapon in the fight against terrorism. Austria proposed a common strategy at European level several weeks ago. This common strategy was also at the heart of the EU's internal ministerial meeting last Sunday in Paris, where all of them have come to know about this common European strategy. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We need determination in the fight against terrorism, but above all also closeness. We must not let the pendulum turn out in the other direction, for any kind of extremism is to be condemned, because any kind of extremism is a threat to our society, no matter what direction this extremism comes from. [[General condolences.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Austria has long taken the threat posed by the terrorists very seriously. That is why in the past we have adopted a number of measures, including in recent months a number of measures which you have supported and which you have also decided here in the House. I am thinking here of the symbol law, the intensification of the border control law, or the revision of the citizenship law. As you know, we also want to put Austrian state protection on new, contemporary legs. That is why we have also started an intensive, comprehensive, above all transparent discussion with the security spokespersons of the parliamentary parties – a discussion that we started in June 2014 – a discussion which focuses primarily on a central issue of the future, namely: What do our people expect from their state protection? What's this about? – It is about finding a social and political consensus on the following issues: How can we continue to preserve freedom and security for the population? What does it need for this balance between freedom and security? Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! There is nowhere in the world to prevent terrorist attacks. We know that, especially in the social media, we have been finding calls to violence for a long time, also against Austria. In connection with the loathsome attack in Paris, this also leads to an increased risk of terror, an increased alert here in Austria. We have tightened our security measures in recent months and again last week. Since the weekend, police officers are increasingly patrolling and police in well-frequented places. We have strengthened both the protection of objects and the protection of persons. We are in contact with the chief editors of Austrian media in order to raise awareness here and to guard them if necessary. Of course, our state protection is also in close contact with the Israeli cultural community. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We have cause for concern and cause for caution, but certainly no cause for panic and hatred. Therefore, I would also like to thank the citizens for their discretion and, above all, for their closeness. However, I should not only like to thank the citizens, but also the entire Federal Government, in particular the Federal Chancellor and the Vice-Chancellor, for his commitment to strengthening the security forces. It is also important for me to stress that there is a very good, close cooperation between the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Defence – a good cooperation that we will continue in the future. The Ministry of the Interior has already announced last week that it will present a package of measures for a security offensive in Austria so that we can continue to protect the population as well as the forces as possible. But I must not only say to the forces a very big and warm thanks that they are working day after day with great commitment. They are in great danger day after day, and, of course, the sensitivity to our safety is still much greater, which is why we need to ensure the safety of the forces in particular here. I should also like to thank you very much for this sign of determination and closeness. I firmly believe that democracy has a longer breath than terror.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e5951	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister. We are going into the debate on the statements. The speaking times are known to you. Mr Klubobmann Mag is the first to speak. Arbitrator. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e5978	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! The terrorist attacks in Paris were a serious shock, not only because people have died because of chaos and uncertainty in Paris, but also because they were an attack on the foundations of the value system of our open society. The rallys, symbolic gestures and gatherings of commemoration in Paris and other places, for example by civil society in Istanbul, but also in Vienna, were important for the victims, but also for all of us, because of the importance of expressing compassion, compassion and solidarity during these hours. In this context, it should also be pointed out that the people killed in France were victims because they were journalists and caricatureists, trusted in freedom of expression and press and lived them. They became victims because they were police officers who fulfilled their task of defending the rule of law and security, and they also became victims because they were Jews. [[Abg. Kickl: (a table with the inscription “No place for radical Islam” in height) victims of whom?]] It was a targeted attack on human rights and our modern society. Since at the same time, in cruel hours of terror – which I found very moving – also humanity and solidarity were lived – that is, when in a kosher supermarket a Muslim employee, under the threat of his own life, has brought Jewish customers and customers to safety, this moment of terror, of terror, also at the same time a hero of solidarity and humanity, Lassana Bathily. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] I also think it is important to have this debate here in Parliament today, because Parliament is the house of democracy, and democracy also means living up to the culture of dissent and dispute, but yet coming to joint decisions. Parliament is also the place of the dialectic of political everyday life. That's why it's for you to keep these boards high during my speech that you make calls. [[Abg. Kickl: So we know what we're talking about!]] [[Abg. Strache: To call him by name!]] I just don't think it's tasteful and appropriate. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Abg. Kickl: We should just know what we're talking about!]] Especially today, we must not allow our values and principles such as freedom, democracy, pluralist, open and secular society to be threatened by terror. We must all be clear – every single person here and outside in society –: We ourselves have it in our hands through what we live. The response to hatred, violence and terror must be solidarity and humanity and unconditional and unshakable defense of openness, democracy, diversity and tolerance. This applies to the defence of any terror. This is true of the right-wing radical terror, as it was executed in Norway in 2011 by the far right-right and anti-Islam Norwegian Anders Breivik. This applies to Islamist terror, as in the attacks in Paris. [[Abg. Kickl: Exactly!]] This applies to fundamentalist organizations such as ISIS, Boko Haram in Nigeria, Al Kaida and as they all call it. This also applies to the many attacks on temples, mosques and the racist lubrications and marches that we unfortunately experience even these days. It was also 26 years ago when Salman Rushdie, because of the fact that he wrote a book, was pronounced a fatwa and 1 million dollars of head money was suspended. It is always the same principle behind it, namely the rejection of freedom, democracy and an open society. That is why we must not see when our freedom is destroyed. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] Humanity and freedom will prevail if the answer to hatred is solidarity, if the answer to violence is rule of law, if the answer to all these events is not the limitation of our rights of freedom, if the answer to religious fundamentalism is a secular society and a secular state, if the answer to exclusion is integration and if the answer to stupidity is a better education. [[It was in favour of SPÖ and ÖVP, as well as MEPs from Greens and NEOS.]] Jens Stoltenberg said in 2011 in response to the Breivik massacre: “Our response to violence is even more democracy, even more humanity, but not more naiveness.” – In this sense also applies: No tolerance for intolerance!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e6104	Mr Klubobmann Dr. Lopatka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e6125	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Appreciate members of the government! [[The speaker presents a panel entitled “Freedom of Faith” on the speaker’s desk.]] People are born free and equal to the right and remain. The Declaration of Human Rights of 1789 in Paris was then a revolutionary act. Today, respect for human rights should be a matter of course. Nevertheless, we must address this statement. “The freedom is to do everything that does not harm another person. Thus, the exercise of the natural rights of each person has only the limits that ensure the enjoyment of these rights to the other members of society. These limits can only be determined by the law.” – That stands for this explanation. A few years later, in the catalogue of fundamental rights of their constitution, the US Americans observed that in Parliaments as in ours, no laws should be passed that restrict this freedom of expression, religious freedom and the press. It is sad and true at the same time that we are not going to the agenda today, but that we are dealing with these issues. 200 years after these freedoms have been achieved for each individual person, we now have to ask ourselves the question again, and this is right to say whether these freedoms are at risk. Ladies and gentlemen! The freedom to think what you want, the freedom to believe what you want, the freedom to say what you want, that is what we have to defend together. I am orienting here at the German Federal Constitutional Court, which is talking about defensive democracy. I'm a candidate for this defensive democracy. Democracy has not only the right, but also the obligation to stand up for the basic democratic system and to stand up for it when someone aims to put this basic democratic system at risk of making it incompetent. It has already been mentioned: Whether this danger comes from the right or from the left, we must act together against it, and the EIA stands for this defensive democracy. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and SPÖ as well as the Abg. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] Yes, the terrible attack in Paris was an attack on the very structure of values for which the European Union stands, which we have to defend together in the European Union. But I am thinking at this hour of the thousands of Christians, as in Nigeria, who have only been slaughtered for their faith. We should not forget that at this hour, ladies and gentlemen. [[I would like to say a few words on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Vavrik.]] However, memory and concerns alone are too few. We also have to act. The Minister for the Interior has addressed it: The security measures in Austria have been increased for a long time – you will remember when this insanity attack was in Canada. Of course, there is also an abstract threat potential in us. Unfortunately, young men and women, who could not be prevented, have also moved into Jihad in Austria, and others have returned. We have to be careful here. It is true that the Federal Office for Constitutional Protection and Terrorism, in particular, wants to protect the Israeli cultural community. Paris has shown that we must understand the special concerns of the IKG. But, of course, we must do everything here to ensure that those who are to guarantee this security are also equipped accordingly. I am of course aware that an increase in technology, in equipment per se cannot prevent terrorist attacks, but it is necessary that we with good conscience have our forces in the interest of the population here on the street. As an ÖVP, we are fighting to ensure that they are properly equipped, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course, we know that data storage has not been able to prevent the attacks of Paris, but it can now help to detect backgrounds and middle-men in structural investigations and thus prevent further attacks. That is why we are in favour of this storage of data – in European agreement with our colleagues in the European Parliament – here, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But our work must start earlier, for example in schools. The Federal Chancellor referred to: These basic principles of our free and open society, yes, they must also be learned. Our children need to learn that they interfere, that they participate, that they discuss, that is also disputed. But they also need to learn something, namely that violence and terror can never be the means to enforce interests. That is the crucial point! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Since its foundation, the Austrian People's Party has been active since the 17th century. April 1945, through 70 years, always used for freedom, for rule of law and tolerance. That is why, in this tradition, in our Federal Party Board meeting, we decided yesterday to hold a manifesto in which we, as a People's Party, will always oppose any kind of extremism and terror, from which side of this extremism and this terror may come, that we will come together with determination and invite all parties represented in Parliament to address this matter together. We, the Austrian People's Party, are also aware that our Europe, which must stand for freedom, for the rule of law and also for tolerance, must never be intimidated or divided by criminal organizations – never! We also note in this manifesto that the strongest weapon against terrorism is the cohesion of our European community of values. That is why the European Union is also so important to act together across national borders. Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian People's Party feels deeply committed to the security of our citizens so that we can ensure our freedom, with this individual's freedom, of course, including the individual's own responsibility. That is why we democrats have everything to do to defend this freedom: here in Austria, in Europe, but also worldwide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e6228	The next item is Mr Klubobmann's speech. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e6250	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! [[The speaker presents a panel with the title “No Place for Radical Islam” on the speaker’s desk.]] Of course, in the current terrorist attack in Paris, we are dealing with a terrorist attack by radical Islamists, and that is what makes us all extremely affected. And it also shocks us, with what brutality, with which men Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President of the Commission, for his excellent report. But please don't pretend that's not the case, and we call things by name! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Unfortunately, I have missed this in the statement by the Federal Government last Sunday, but also in today's declaration by the President of the National Council. It has not once been used the concept of Islamism and Islamist terror. I mean, you have to make it clear where the terror came from in Paris and where it came from. This is a very dangerous development, and for years we have also warned of radical Islamism and these dangerous developments, and often unfortunately had to experience God's experience, that the warners were then insulted and treated as loathers and as Hetzer et cetera. I say that has not been a good way of doing this and has not been a good way of dealing critically with mismanagements. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And I say that it does not help to continue the eye-and-ear policy and act as it has, unfortunately, been the case in some speeches up to now, because one does not trust to address the core of the problem because one may be afraid to insult someone. But radical Islamism cannot and must not have a place in our society, nor can radical terrorist organizations of other religious communities if they exist, regardless of any religious community. It's all that terror stands behind it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But there are hundreds of terrorist organizations in the area of radical Islamism, and that is not one, that is, many movements that ultimately pose a threat today and which represent a potential for danger. That is why I say it is important not to live here in a reality refusal. Unfortunately, this has also been one of the main problems in the past, namely that one has not taken this misdevelopment seriously, and that is why one should call things by name. Unfortunately, radicalists refer to the Qur'an with their interpretations. They appeal to Islam. They commit crimes in his name and last but not least abuse him. Fortunately, there are also many, many Muslims who deeply reject it, and it is therefore important to differentiate. There can and must not be a general suspicion of Muslim believers, but radical Islamists, we must all fight together and they must not continue to spread in this society. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] It is particularly worrying, therefore, if there are misdevelopments that we have pointed out, such as over 21 Salafist kindergartens in Vienna, where radical medieval teaching content is disseminated. Thus also Hamas terrorist organization representatives here in Vienna are granted orders, and unfortunately, other misdevelopments are possible in this city of God. Then one does not need to be surprised and disappointed and shocked that there can be such a thing, then there is nothing to do with such Sunday talks if there are unfortunately still such misdevelopments on the part of the political leader. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] One should not pretend that the attacks in Paris were the first Islamic terrorist attacks in Europe. ==References== March 2004 in Madrid: Explosive attacks on four pendulum trains with 191 dead. ==References== In July 2005, 56 people died in London's subway due to an attack. ==References== On November 28, 2009, 28 people were murdered in a Russian speed train on the journey from Moscow to St. Petersburg. ==References== On March 1, 2010, 40 people were killed in Moscow Metro. ==References== On March 1, 2011, two people died at Frankfurt Airport in an attack on American soldiers. ==References== In March 2012, a radical Islamist in southern France murdered seven people, namely three soldiers, a rabbi and three Jewish children. ==References== In May 2013, a British soldier was literally hacked into pieces by radical Islamists in England. ==References== In May 2014, four people, four Jewish fellow citizens, were killed in an attack at the Jewish Museum in Brussels. And now there was another attack that we mourn today and shock us. So there is a chain of attacks by radical Islamists, which is why we must seriously deal with and consider how we can prevent further attacks. And here I am grateful to the Minister for the Interior that she has announced here today that she wants to take all the measures. I just couldn't hear you in the last few days: [[towards Federal Minister Mikl- Leitner]] Neither here in Parliament nor in other structural areas have I noticed what you have outlined today. I hope that this will be done now and that security will also be tightened and optimised accordingly, because I fear because of an article in today’s “Kurier” that unfortunately there is a current threat. And this Mr. Mahmoud Mohamed, who has also been brought to trial here in Austria for several attacks – attacks, including murders he has planned – and has also been sentenced, has now again expressed new threats. I therefore say that if we highlight the problem, then we must insist that Europe is unfortunately in a development today, that on the one hand we have imported radical Islamist terror, but we are already exporting it. Many of the radical Islamists, jihadists and fighters come from Austria to Syria, fight there, are part of a terrorist army, and we have to make improvements according to the law so that our population is protected. Jihadists, terrorist army members who are in a war for a foreign army or a terrorist organization, have to lose citizenship after the Söldner paragraph. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have to ensure that those people who brutally murdered in Syria or elsewhere – Christians, Jews, liberal Muslims – who do not fit into their confused world view cannot simply come back to Austria and move freely here and ultimately travel as ticking time bombs until perhaps a radical terrorist attack happens. No, we have to act here with special measures. When people announce that they are working as God’s warriors and are traveling to this region that has announced on Facebook and come back, they have to prove what they have done there. We must also consider, in the interests of general security, whether such radical jihadists and perhaps brutal murderers and cut-offs here as ticking Time bombs can run around freely until perhaps something terrible happens in Austria too, which we all do not want and what we all have to prevent together. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The protection of the public against violent and trained terrorists must take precedence, and I think that this would have a dissuasive effect, which is absolutely necessary. Ladies and gentlemen! I hope that, by all the political parties in the House, this seriousness will in future be lived not only in the debate but also in the necessary legislative decision-making. We must ensure together the values of Europe, which have been referred to very consciously, the European building of values: the European Evening Building of Value of Enlightenment, Humanism, freedom of expression, freedom of the media – all of this should be common to us. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] And despite all the contradictions and different opinions we have, we should not forget that and not make the mistake of committing evasions. [[President Bures gives the bell sign again.]] Any form of extremism must be rejected, whether from left, right, top, bottom, from any religion! All that has to do with extremism and violence is to fight vehemently from us as democrats, that should be common consensus. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP]] Anti-Semitism has not lost anything in our society as has anti-Christian or anti-Muslim patterns of conduct directed against other religions. [[President Bures gives the bell sign again.]] This should be our basic consensus, and anyone who abuses it or violates it should also be confronted with the full hardness of our rule of law and the laws.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e6453	The next item is Mrs. Club Chairman Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e6474	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen, In the German language, we use terms such as “barbarian” or “grausam” or “unmanufactured”. But if you look at this shocking file, that will trigger something with me and with many other people, and that is an infinite black hole of incomprehensibility, which actually happens here every day, every day: Terror in countries such as Syria, Afghanistan, Pakistan, Nigeria and Iraq. And now this terror has returned to Madrid, London and Norway to Europe. It is clearly more aggressive, of course, if one considers that this is not just about the mere act of brutality and murder, but that it is also much more meant, namely the foundation of the European community of values. On the one hand, this is the freedom to express his opinion everywhere on the street, the freedom to exercise religion visibly. It was a matter of course for us, but that is now being deeply questioned. I felt it very important that the global reactions, including in Europe, also in Austria, were so consistently positive and geared towards cohesion. It was extremely relevant and important that something else could have happened in Europe. There could have been outrages that it would have exactly the What these Islamist terrorists would have wanted to do could happen. We must not make this very mistake to face hatred now. This solidarity, which has been shown with this action of the "Je suis Charlie", "Je suis juif", "Je suis Bathily", is the core of the European community of values, and we are and want to defend it with all our strength. [[Congratulations with Greens and SPÖ as well as with representatives of the Stronach team.]] As overwhelming and positive as these reactions were, of course it is also about drawing the political conclusions from them. I think it would be fundamentally wrong to take the murder of journalists, police officers, Jewish citizens and citizens on the occasion of the gradual reduction, sacrifice and abandonment of legal standards similar to those in the United States. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Wenninger.]] Terror can achieve its goal in several ways: on the one hand, by killing itself, but on the other hand also by the fear generated by it, and on the other hand by the fact that the values against which terror is directed are gradually eroded. Islamist terror must be opposed with all the power and power of the rule of law and fundamental rights, and we must also resist the fact that terror is taken as an opportunity to undermine legal standards and fundamental rights. That is why some reactions are not understandable to me. Of course, we must deal with the need for protection, with the question of what is happening at political level, but we must deal with it very sensitively and with it very carefully. One of the first reactions, however, was the reintroduction of mass surveillance. By the way, there was a very large amount of data storage in France. France has very, very well-developed monitoring systems, in the French Ministry of the Interior you can block websites and make everything possible without judicial order, but it has not also yielded there. In my view, the reaction to starting exactly with this and reacting to this act with the narrowing of the rule of law is wrong. [[Congratulations on Greens and FPÖ as well as on representatives of the Stronach team.]] However, in another case I would like to see a much more response from the Austrian Federal Government. What happens in Saudi Arabia at an hour, that is, a government-critical blogger, a young person – he's just got his 31. Birthday celebrates – for his freedom of expression, which he has lived, he is sentenced to a penalty of 1,000 whips and ten years of imprisonment, which is incompatible with human rights, with fundamental rights, it is unbearable. And here in Austria there is no response. One does not draw the consequence of closing the Abdullah Centre in Austria, which is financed by Saudi-Arab money. [[Congratulation with greens, SPÖ and FPÖ.]] From my point of view, this is more than freedom of expression. What Badawi said was the defence of a fundamental right. He said that Muslims, Jews, Christians, and atheists were equal. It has done nothing but simply express a European value, the value of freedom of religion and freedom of expression. And since in return this leads to such a reaction of a state, I think you can say quite: Saudi Arabia is already a state as IS wants it. In this sense, I would like to have a very clear signal from the Austrian Federal Government, a very clear termination of the Treaty of this joint centre. [[It was in favour of Greens and FPÖ as well as SPÖ Members.]] It was a serious political mistake, which must now be reversed immediately; the notice period is three months. I know that this is a very difficult situation for many of us now. We are all confronted with people who are really scared, especially the members of the Israeli cultural community in Austria. I would like to stress that we all support them, in Austria and in Europe, with support and solidarity. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the ÖVP.]] That, I think, was never a question. But this fear, which is also formulated here by many, must not, in my view, lead to what terror in Europe would want now: to fear, to treading and to loud scouts. We must defend our fundamental rights very precisely until the last indent and take all means against extremist terror – but on the basis of fundamental rights, democracy and the rule of law!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e6577	The next item is Mrs Dietrich's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e6598	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm not Charlie! – just as most of the people were here. We're all not Charlie! None of us fought with such courage and as uncompromisingly for freedom of expression and Western values as the editors and artists of “Charlie Hebdo”. Despite attacks and in spite of death threats, they have continued their course uncompromisingly. They have not been intimidated and have ultimately paid the price, the highest price a person can pay, the price of his own life. They deserve our highest respect for this, and our highest recognition is due to them. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team as well as with representatives of SPÖ and Greens.]] No one has only nearly as much courage as these victims of the IS. I do not want to be misunderstanded, the contents are not my own, but freedom of expression is the highest good in democracy and must not be negotiable. I'll tell you who Charlie is: Charlie is a little girl in Syria, in the broken environment of the city of Aleppo, who holds a sign over his head and says: I'm Charlie! This picture has gone around the world via Twitter, and if someone had recognized the girl's head or face, it would not live anymore. – That’s courage, that’s commitment to freedom of expression! Ladies and gentlemen! Terror, extremism and violence do not arise in the empty space, they do not arise in the social vacuum and not from today on to tomorrow. A multicultural society needs clear rules to work. We need tolerance, mutual knowledge and understanding, because only by this is the basis for a harmonious relationship. And many who now call: We are Charlie!, who have closed their eyes, who have closed their eyes for far too long before the extremist drives, they have ignored, relativized and silenced all the social and political misdevelopments that prepare the ground for these atrocities. Ladies and gentlemen! At the latest since yesterday, we know: Austria is not an island of the Blessed! Since yesterday we know that we too are called to murder of unbelievers. We must not be surprised when thousands of people in our country are concerned about how this should happen together in the future. Some time ago, there was a survey of how Islamism is compatible with Western values – that was before Paris! – and there were only 11 percent of Austrians in the opinion that this was compatible. 71 percent have said: Don't go! – Ladies and gentlemen, politics must not ignore such values! There is a need for up-to-date action. If today a movement such as PEGIDA forms, where people articulate their fear and go to the street to demonstrate, then it is the wrong way to stigmatize this movement. There is only one way: to take the concerns seriously to debate! This will prevent à la longue from being thousands, tens of thousands of Austrians on the road. [[Congratulations on Team Stronach and Deputies Strache and Hofer.]] Let us create a transparent society system with clear rules of play and stand at the values such as peace, freedom and respect for human rights! We also now note that there is a trend to restrict freedom of the press, to reduce freedom of expression and press freedom. The city of Leipzig even wanted a ban on demonstrations, and it was not to be publicly shown by Muhammad's caricatures. Ladies and gentlemen! That's what the Islamists want from us! If we do not go this way, if we are courageous and we stand to our values, we stand on freedom of expression as the essential pillar of democracy! [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and the FPÖ representatives.]] Suddenly, the word “but ” is heard again and again. – Yes, we already want freedom of the press – but! We want freedom of expression – but! Even the Federal Chancellor meant: Of course, the right to demonstrate is a fundamental right – but! [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: In some Lower Austrian communities not!]] [[Abg. Kickl: Just for left!]] [[Abg. Strache: Should stop for everyone!]] Ladies and gentlemen, there is no But, there is no concession! Democracy and freedom of expression must not be negotiable! [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and the FPÖ representatives.]] However, ladies and gentlemen: Democracy and freedom of expression are not in vain, as we Austrians know from painful experience in the past. Now is the time for real and uncompromising commitment to Western and democratic values! But he who calls out: I am Charlie, and, at the same time, I am against the concerned and peacefully demonstrating supporters of the PEGIDA movement, who did not understand anything about freedom of expression and democracy.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e6727	Mr Klubobmann Dr. Strolz is next spoken. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e6749	Madam President. Estimated government members! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear citizens! The fear is about, not only in Paris, not only in France, but also many hundreds of miles away here with us. For the moment, the terrorists have achieved their goal: They wanted to spread fear, spread horror! We will not be able to eliminate the fear, it is one of our people, and on the occasion of such brutality and such fierce murders of journalists, laizist journalists, Jews and police officers, fear is a natural reaction. We cannot eliminate fear, but we can overcome it to prove that we do not capitulate before terror. As a liberal democracy, we will not let the community of values fall apart, Europe is stronger than the machine gun. That is beyond doubt for me! What does this Europe make up? What is the pulsating heart of Europe? – It is our humanistic heritage, it is the spirit of Enlightenment, it is human rights and civil rights. Our liberal democracies build on the fact that we people have inalienable rights that we are equipped with inalienable rights – regardless of gender, age, nationality, religion! We are born free and equal in dignity – and from it the individual freedom of action, from which the freedom of expression grows, from which the freedom of the press grows, from which the personal development grows, from which also our prosperity grows, I claim, from which our social well-being also grows, and from it also our wealth, ideal as well as material! We will defend these values! We will defend it as a liberal democracy – with the full hardness and consequence of the rule of law, but also with the weapons of humanism and the Enlightenment that are there: Reason, respect, and the gift of the discernment of the Spirit. We will need all these ingredients! The safety device is required: We need the determination of the rule of law in dealing with violent extremists. For these, there is a clear place in our rule of law to which they belong, namely, behind lattices! We have to make sure we do this. At the same time, in the light of the current discussion, in which many undifferentiated fantasies of repression arise, I would like to stress: More urgent and more important than the call for armored vehicles, I believe, is the question of whether we have the properly trained people, and thus, first of all, the ability to understand the language and culture of those people who are obviously so strange to us, and second, and there we need to differentiate! – the ability to decipher the being and the motivations of those who want to destroy our social systems. More urgent and more important than locking up obviously questionable dialogue centres is for me to lock up and build up lively, effective dialogue centres, which form a platform and create a place of encounter and exchange. More urgent and more important than the reintroduction of non-principal data storage is the implementation of a common European Union foreign, security and neighbourhood policy! [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Walser.]] Do we understand, on the one hand, the language and culture of those people who are so strange to us? On the other hand, do we understand the nature and motivation of those who want to undermine our society system? - I don't think so! Austria once had an imperial-royal oriental academy. I find this exciting! At that time they wanted to approach the stranger, then they wanted to understand! [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: We have!]] We converted this Academy back then into the Diplomatic Academy in Theresianum. But I'm asking: Where is today the Center for Islam Research in Austria? Where is it? Why have we been very late on this issue and only very hesitant? And where is the Center for Islamicism Research in Austria? Why don't we want to look at it? Why don't we want to get some knowledge here? Do we have vital effective dialogue centres, places of meeting in Austria? Islam belongs to Austria, as well as Judaism, Christianity, the agnostics, the atheists, the laityists: We're Austria, we're together! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] In Austria – I quote – do we want a cold war between Muslims and non-Muslims, as one Islamic scientist formulated a few years ago? Or do we want respect, exchange, encounter, mutual appreciation? I want to get together – but then we have to invest too! To that end, I believe that we need to make a part of this three-digit million-euro amount, which has been co-financed, in order to build centres of dialogue. That would be a good investment. We should not leave this Saudi Arabia! Then: Whoever pays, make it! – We should invest there ourselves! Finally: Will we respond to the fear and terror with the circumcision of fundamental rights, or are there alternatives? Security sometimes depends on state violence, education, surveillance and restriction. But the dose is crucial here! This is like medications with severe side effects: They are effective only if they are used well. If the dosage does not fit, then the effects of habit come with overdose with side effects that damage the organism. This danger exists also for democratic organisms. [[Abg. Strache: We send the ISIS fighter police without helmet?- Oh, my God!]] The view to France shows: The stock data storage has not protected France. The view to the USA shows: Torture has not protected the US. We must observe the crises that arise at our doorstep at an early stage. We need empathy, anticipation, we need knowledge! We must not realize crises until they have turned to murder and death. [[Abg. Riemer: Who comes too late, punishes him?- Oh, my God!]] We need an external, security and neighbourhood policy, which is forward-looking, empathetic, determined! We are currently cooking 28 national soups, and the common soup of all 28 is too thin to be able to feed this continent – and we are suffering from it! Those who want to ensure security and peace in Europe must pursue a common foreign, security and neighbourhood policy. Peace does not fall from heaven, we have had to observe that in recent years. Peace is the result of hard work – hard relationship work, and we need to intensify it! The recognition of recent years is: Imagine, it's peace, and nobody cares about it – then the war comes to you! That is the knowledge of the last years, and that is why we need more than ever to take care of peace. The European Union – Madam President, I come to the conclusion – is a unique cultural achievement of humanity! We have created great things in the inner relationship, and it is now time for us to take on more responsibility globally in the external relationship.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e6902	I thank the Federal Government for the statement and for the debate. No one is reported in the word anymore. That concludes the debate. This item on the agenda has been completed, and I am interrupting the sitting until noon to call on the urgent question. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e6942	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Dear Members of the Federal Government! I'll start the interrupted session again. [[12:01:28]] Request for urgent procedure Mr Heinz-Christian Strache, colleagues in the Federal Chancellor on the events surrounding the Hypo Group Alpe-Adria (3412/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e6978	We come to the urgent debate on the written question 3412/J. As it has now reached all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the writer. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e7288	As the first speaker, I call Mr Klubobmann Strache. I would like to draw your attention to the time limit of 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e7309	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Appreciate parliamentarians and spectators in front of the screens! Today, the demand for a committee of inquiry is finally being made available to the Causa Hypo Alpe-Adria. That this can happen is certainly one of the few encouraging events and developments in Austrian domestic policy. After a long time, after many rejections, there was a common success after many discussions. The fact that there is today this possibility that the opposition has a minority right to set up parliamentary committees of inquiry is, and this must be maintained, a milestone of parliamentarianism and a good and right path on which we want to build. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] For the first time, there is this parliamentary minority law situation, and this can also be the first step in setting up the Committee of Inquiry. And that is a good thing, because we have made many, many, many applications for the setting up of an investigation committee. Unfortunately, however, we have also had to experience God's rejection of these more than 20 times from the government groups. Our urgent question today on the subject of Hypo Alpe-Adria is, to a large extent, concerned with the responsibility of you, Mr. Bundeskanzler. You, of course, have a responsibility as head of government. According to the Austrian Constitution, the Federal Chancellor is chairman of the Austrian Federal Government. As head of government, he coordinates and represents government work towards Parliament and the public, and therefore, as head of government, of course also bears the primary responsibility. We also want to highlight this on the subject of hypo developments. And even if you, Mr Faymann, did not promote anything actively, you obviously did not prevent anything and did not correct it either. This is also the subject of responsibility, if you have remained inactive and have not done so in the event of mismanagements and misconceptions. The “profile” in its annual review writes about the night when the decision to stateization was taken without need, very strikingly – I quote –: "Evil tongues say stubbornly that Faymann had the night of negotiation from 13th to 14th. December – in which the most expensive decision of the Second Republic was made – was spent in bed.” I hope you could at least sleep well, Mr. Federal Chancellor, when this serious decision was to be made. In the same issue there is a quite striking characterization of you, Mr. Bundeskanzler. I quote again: “The Austrian Chancellor has made it comfortable in the comfort zone. “The crisis” has been used by Faymann for years as a license for non-resistance, the stand set “Austria has come well through the crisis” as a self-explaining work certificate – entirely regardless of the fact that Austria is headed straight for recession and that it will also have to go a long way under the captivating hypo-“rettung”.” These are not my words, but these are those words that are in the “profile”. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Good, “profile”! Bravo!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Darabos.]] Mr. Federal Chancellor Faymann, you have repeatedly tried the crisis over the last few years, expressing that you have led our country through the crisis well. So, I insist that you have – if so – led the crisis through the country and not vice versa. This is the impression you have to have today, because the non-sun, described here by the magazine “profile”, is quite verifiable in many circumstances and unfortunately God’s obvious identity exists. The report of the Griss Commission is also proof of its inactivity. I quote again: “[] the investigative commission concludes that the responsible decision-makers of the federal government have taken the nationalization decision without sufficient information. They have neither adequately prepared the facts nor adequately examined the legal framework. This enabled the Austrian negotiators to develop no alternative scenarios that could have counterweighted the strategy of the BayernLB and the Free State of Bavaria. The opposite was possible to determine the course and outcome of the negotiations significantly.” Unfortunately, we are coming back to your main responsibility on this question, and we must say yes, that is a problem. I am already clear, you and the following speakers of the government parties will now stress: But the haider, but the haider, but the haider. [[Abg. Heinzl: But the street too! That's the stretch, too!]] – Yes, there is the responsibility of the state of Carinthia, yes, Dr. Jörg Haider was head of state. [[Abg. Schieder: FPÖ head of state!]] But I see a few speakers in front of my spiritual eye again, like Mr. Matznetter, who will then sweep around with his iPad again and again and again try to point out to the deceased head of state as sole responsible and sole excuses. - That's not right! I note for the time being what I have always done and also made public, even in press releases, which thankfully Mr Matznetter has also often quoted, that the country of Carinthia bears responsibility for the irresponsible liability that has been assumed there. However, these liabilities were supported by all parties in the Kärntner Landtag, as highlighted and confirmed in the Griss report. [[Abg. Glavisch-Piesczek: Incorrect!]] That is to say, all the parties have made this dramatic mistake, which I have always criticized, namely taking over liabilities at an amount that is irresponsible. And so I say it again and openly: The damage that was caused by false liability and irresponsibly high liability – yes, that was a mistake, also from the head of state Jörg Haider. It was a mistake of Mr. Kaiser, who voted in favour and today is the head of state. It was a mistake of the ÖVP that voted in the Carinthian Landtag. Yes, it was a mistake of all parties who voted in favour. All the parties in the Carinthian Landtag voted in favour of this faulty acceptance of liability, and no one is supposed to get rid of it at any other party, because they were all there. [[Accompaniment with the FPÖ and the Abg. Dietrich.]] As the Griss report points out, however, the crucial mistake was finally the nationalization without need, namely the bank to withdraw from Bavaria. And there we are now at a two-party responsibility. That is to say, this crucial and disastrous failure of nationalization without need has only taken SPÖ and ÖVP as government parties. And the Griss report has essentially confirmed what we have always said in this causa, namely: Emergency nationalization was not an emergency nationalization. This was a nationalization without need, and there has been no plan by the Federal Government to deal with this bank in the future and what to do with it. The Griss report clearly shows that SPÖ and ÖVP were clearly unable to distinguish between the particular interests of their parties and their environment and the interest of Austrian taxpayers. And this is the responsibility of the SPÖ and the ÖVP, which can be clearly defined here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The Griss Commission clearly worked out that under the supervision of Federal Chancellor Faymann, ÖVP Finance Ministers Pröll, Fekter and Spindelegger have ultimately created an economic and financial super-GAU together with their consultants and the banking sector environment. [[State Secretary Steßl: “Under supervision!”]] [[Rejoicing by Federal Chancellor Faymann]] With this irresponsible step of nationalization without need and without the appropriate legal review, SPÖ and ÖVP have ultimately done billions of damage to this level, which was still made possible by the years of non-sun-sanction of the Minister of Finance other than the service of Maria Fekter. With this the damage has been once again potentated. This was an destruction of tax money, which we all have to endure today and which will also be unexplained, and of course also an destruction of valuable jobs. [[Abg. Kickl: (in the direction of Chancellor Faymann) There he laughs! There he laughs!]] We liberals have in all cases learned from these crazy liabilitys that have been taken over in Carinthia. Everyone in this House today rightly criticises the then irresponsible state liability in Carinthia. I am only wondering if it is honest and serious, why this irresponsible game, which we rightly reject today in Carinthia, has been further pursued in an even more irresponsible way with the European Stability Mechanism at the even larger and higher level of the European Union. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We liberals have learned from this irresponsible development in Carinthia and have rightly voted against the acceptance of liability by the European Stability Mechanism. The same inadequacy of liability, which is rightly condemned by all parties in Carinthia today, is suddenly supported by you, namely the SPÖ, the ÖVP, but unfortunately also by the Greens at European level, in an even higher dimension. This poses a risk that we will have to stand up for all the European Union's banking outrages in the long run, and that will be difficult to finance. This is simply unfair throughout the debate, and we have unfortunately experienced it over the last few months and years. One rightly refers to the Carinthian liabilities which were disastrous, but then at the same time continues the same building of liability, the same acceptance of liability by states for banks at the pan-European level and is obviously also ready to continue if necessary. This means that it seems that you do not take yourself seriously and do not take your own positions seriously, because of course you should also have rejected the irresponsible liability of the European Stability Mechanism in this form, as we Liberals have consistently done, because we have learned from the mistakes of the country's liability in Carinthia. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, at least I am very glad that we will decide on the Committee of Inquiry and that this will ultimately also bring an end to the entire ethnicity that has taken place in recent years. Unfortunately, we have had to experience more than 20 rejected applications for the establishment of a committee of inquiry. That was quite embarrassing. But now we are dealing with the specific clarification of political responsibility. Of course, this is not to be a tribunal, but a restless and merciless explanation of political responsibility in different processes. It is good to have already studied the development of liability in Carinthia. The Carinthian Landtag has already investigated this period until the sale of the Hypo Alpe-Adria. I am convinced that on the basis of these results, we will deal with this section in the Committee of Inquiry relatively quickly. But it is particularly important to examine those areas that have not been examined to date, namely from the sale of the Hypo Alpe-Adria to the BayernLB, from the date of nationalization without need, the further years of inactivity and damage maximation that has arisen. It is precisely there that it is necessary to ensure that there is no remaining information. This is, of course, about the billions of damage that was caused to the taxpayer. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is also necessary to highlight the question of the solution of the institution or the insolvency. I wonder why there has not been an orderly insolvency, as the opposition has called for together. Obviously, creditor interests were in mind, and taxpayers should be asked to cash out so that creditors can stay outside. Of course, there is also the suspicion that the bank has been nationalised without need to relieve several creditors at the expense of taxpayers. These are, of course, responsibilities, which one will have to show mercilessly. One thing has to be said: All those who have played a significant role in this Super-GAU financial and budgetary policy are still in office or have been supplied accordingly. This is also an indication of the political culture in which we are located in Austria. We know from Minister of Finance Josef Pröll that he has a highly-dominated manager's position in the Raiffeisen Group today. We know from Mrs Fekter that she was well thought out as a Member of Parliament. For Minister of Finance Spindelegger, I think something is being sought at the level of the European Union. To the then State Secretary: Mr SPÖ-Klubobmann As the Secretary of State for Finance he was also directly involved, today he is Klubobmann. [[Abg. Kickl: He fell down!]] Lopatka was the State Secretary. The Oesterreichische Nationalbank Governor Nowotny is also sitting on his privileged chair in the National Bank and will not even today tire of defending the insanity that was set up there and calling it an alternative, although the Griss Commission report has fixed the opposite. The President of the Financial Procuratorate, Dr. Wolfgang Pessorn, who wrote the insane emergency treaty, is still on his high-dozen official chair. In the field of top financial market guardians, it looks similar. The SPÖ-near Helmut Ettl is still on the board of directors of financial market supervision, with the question to be asked: How has the supervision here failed at the most different levels? To what extent is the FMA, but also the National Bank responsible for this whole disaster, namely in the failure of supervision? Or the ÖVP close to Dr. Kurt Pribil, who is still in this privilege position as a national bank director? And last but not least, Mr Bundeskanzler, who, of course, as head of government also bears the highest responsibility? All this has to be clarified. I am glad that the opposition closed today has made this special meeting possible and that with this urgent request we begin today to ask your responsibility more closely and to lighten it up. As a result, the Committee of Inquiry will address all these areas, which we have long discussed, in which there are always different levels of argumentation. But you will not get through with your line of argument – “the Haider, the Haider, the Haider” – when the emperor was everywhere with the Haider, when the ÖVP was everywhere with the Haider and when you agreed to these liabilities together in the Carinthian Landtag. This is then an unfair debate, and then at least today you should start to go into an honest debate and say, yes, except for Haider today's head of state, Kaiser, unfortunately, as a countryman, and together with the SPÖ delegates in the Carinthian Landtag, these irrational liabilities were agreed together, and unfortunately also the ÖVP delegates. Yeah, that would be an honest debate. If, contrary to the Griss Commission's report, you think that the country's liability is the sole debt, then you must say that all parties in the Carinthian Landtag have to bear this debt. I believe that, as the Griss Commission explained in its report, the damage would have been eliminated despite the liability. This can also be read from the Griss Commission report. If one had negotiated with Bavaria and the BayernLB, one would not have done any nationalization, and if one had also negotiated a post-scanning participation capital together, then this bank would certainly not have been brought into this level of damage. Then one might have found the result at €1.2 billion or €3 billion and could also have saved the bank together with the Bayern. Bayern would have been in a co-responsible to join us, and it would have been this damage, which today threatens Austrian taxpayers with up to €20 billion, in the form. This is also the result of the Griss Commission. Mrs Fekter, your role as Minister of Finance after Josef Pröll, who will naturally have to bear this irresponsible nationalization without need overnight as the principal responsible, will also be to investigate, for example, your further inactivity when you were not willing to attack this hot iron. Although it was clear that a resolution of the Bank was requested immediately from the European Union, it remained inactive. Unfortunately, the damage of God has been further increased and maximized. And then the role of Minister of Finance Spindelegger, who will ultimately be responsible for his responsibilities with the mining company, because there would certainly have been a more cost-effective variant here to relieve taxpayers. Our task as parliamentarians and as opposition parties is to do everything possible to significantly minimize the damage to taxpayers. We see this opportunity in the course of an undesired investigation by the investigative committee. We are also pleased that the long-standing freedom of movement, after the nationalization without need, is finally calling on Bavaria to make a complaint and to take the legal path – which unfortunately has not been implemented immediately – at least now is being implemented by the new Minister of Finance Schelling in order to get a better position towards the Bavaria and the Bavarian Landesbank. This is quite reasonable and shows that our liberal proposals are obviously clever and correct, even though they are often, after we have introduced them, being reflexibly rejected for a time by the government parties. So there seems to be a movement in the right direction there and there. It is now important for us to ensure that political responsibility is fully clarified with this Committee of Inquiry. And of course, it cannot and must not be that various personalities who are in the public today are particularly protected in some way, but you have to deal with them correctly. They also have a speech and an answer to the taxpayer and the public as regards the structures of responsibility, and, accordingly, if responsibilities for the massive errors are demonstrated, the consequences are to be met. In my opinion, if, even in Austria, there is at last a culture of consequence – if those responsible in politics or elsewhere make such dramatic misjudgments, which lead to such great damage to taxpayers, the withdrawal is actually a matter of course. In fact, we should also consider, beyond the resignation, the extent to which one can be responsible with liability financial interests. It can't be that you're cleaning yourself off, says you've taken responsibility because you've resigned as a member of the government, and then you'll find yourself somewhere in the private sector, even though you've charged the Austrian taxpayer 50 billion euros of damage. He then has to catch up with this, namely our Austrian taxpayer. This is not a culture of responsibility and responsibility, as we imagine it. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] I believe that in the future we must also think about how to optimize this.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e7527	Mr Faymann spoke in response to the question. Mr Bundeskanzler, your speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e7549	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I am convinced that the investigative committee will discuss the time in Carinthia in a very detailed manner when the assumement of the liability has taken place. It will also be the question to ask whether your presentation is true that there was a vote in which everyone participated, then there was nothing more and then there was the great disaster. [[Abg. Kickl: They offer themselves as a witness! That's something new! He's acclamating to the top of the witness list!]] Or it may appear that a number of actions under the leadership of the FPÖ in Carinthia also led to the fact that, under the leadership of the FPÖ, without the agreement of other parties, such as SPÖ, the expansions of these liabilities, the activities of the Bank and the Bank's scope of action were advanced. That's why it's a bit simplified to say that there was once an error and then it was bad luck, because there were, of course, a lot of decisions in Carinthia, and it will be difficult for you to prove that the FPÖ did not have the leadership, and it will also be difficult for you to prove that there were always other parties there. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: Did you listen to me, Mr. Federal Chancellor?- Oh, my God!]] – I listened to you, so I say so. [[Abg. Street: The SPÖ has agreed! Not just one!]] Yes, in this one decision you call. [[Abg. Kickl: Who led the control bodies?- Oh, my God!]] However, I am convinced that the need for information about the time in which Carinthia was under the leadership of the FPÖ is somewhat greater. It is important to note how many decisions have been taken in Carinthia to this bank, to increase the risk of liability et cetera, et cetera. I am convinced that the Committee of Inquiry will also clarify the political activities and activities of those responsible in Carinthia. The fact that the financial crisis created a situation in the banking sector in 2009, which reminded of the CA crisis in the 1930s, must be remembered again and again. The collapse of the financial institution and its consequences have caused enormous economic damage, mass unemployment and poverty. Finally, they were also ready for later developments. This economic crisis was a very serious international situation and also a very serious situation for Austria. This has to be remembered again and again, because I cannot imagine that it is voluntary to say that one saves anything, if not also effects that can result in an action, to be expressed or estimated. I would therefore like to say something fundamental about the hypo history, which has been discussed so often and so much, because it also has an influence on the present and the future. If the Austrian National Bank, the financial market supervision and the representatives of the Ministry of Finance form a task force – that is, a group to discuss their views – then the government and the head of government will report that it is to be removed from insolvency, because it is not an appropriate way to assess all the effects that are to be estimated, then this also applies at the hour. This has nothing to do with the fact that there is not one counsellor – I respect every politician’s opinion here – who says that he can imagine a controlled insolvency. Yes, there is also this opinion, we have also revealed it. Minister of Finance Spindelegger has also revealed that various consultants have very different opinions and also what results they have come to. However, the Task Force also made a very clear statement in the previous year on these concrete advices – partly contradictory advices. So it is not a failure to take into account a scenario, but it would be a failure not to have this scenario tested for heart and kidneys. And with that, I'm back with the basics. Of course, it can be thought that the National Bank has a bad leadership. I am not of this opinion. I know that in the political debates, some speakers express their opinion – from general abuses to individual accusations to those responsible. This is quite possible in a parliamentary discussion. But as head of government, I am clearly saying that the National Bank has my confidence that financial market supervision has my confidence and also the representatives of the Ministry of Finance. And if they make a decision – and if they still disagree on the possibilities of illuminating this issue – then I would not advise any head of government in any country of the Western world to go beyond it and to say that he is the political expert, and to the National Bank, against the supervision of the financial market and against the representatives of the Ministry of Finance will make a completely different decision. I am therefore saying this because it is a matter of seriousness – also for the future and the present. I would not recommend anyone today to make a decision against those who are different from those who are currently working out Federal Minister Schelling. If conditions change as a result of balance sheets, evaluations, assessment of the scenario – that is, precisely the one mentioned above – then, of course, an amended strategy should also be implemented in the case of changed assessments. This is also the responsibility of all political agents. I am therefore saying this because I believe that an institution with the independence and importance of the National Bank also has the right to be considered correctly, fairly and objectively here in this House. Those responsible there also have the right that what they say with high expertise and objectivity also has its place in the discussion. [[Abg. Kickl: It's all wrong, isn't it?]] It is not about faultless; no, it is not faultless. Each Court of Auditors report shows errors – almost everyone. It is not, therefore, a question of criticizing all officials, public servants and those responsible for this country in terms of land and soil and demanding their redundancies. That's a method you use – I'm not! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: What are the consequences!? Where are the consequences?? There are no consequences!]] It is also a matter of expressing respect for the people who work for this country. I come to the answer now Your questions, however, would like to add one more point: that the Griss report – which you now also approve of, although you did not see the establishment so positively at first – is very clearly about morality, and about the mistakes associated with the country's liability. You mentioned this too. The Griss report speaks a clear language. The Griss report also says that there were these liabilities in the country – of course they have now become smaller – and there are still. It is important to mention this because I can recall debates in which the liability and its effect in itself have been questioned by some speakers, because it has just fit politically into the concept of speech. But the Griss report speaks a clear language here. He speaks of liabilities of the country of Carinthia, who were upright at the time of nationalization and had become suffocating, i.e., of the question of any failure of liability. [[Call the FPÖ:Debug liability!]] - Right! It's about this one. It is therefore also important to take seriously the assessment of the report in this area, as in many others, and to ask the question of the consequences. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] I take this very seriously, and therefore I would like to answer your questions, summarized in the complexes of topics, in concrete terms. Questions 1 to 4, 7, 8, 12, 14 to 17 and 19 concern exactly what I have tried to do, namely how political decisions have been made. And here I would like to reply again: on the basis of the expertise of the Ministry of Finance, the Austrian National Bank, the European Central Bank, the Financial Market Supervision, the Financial Procuratorship. The task of the experts is to prepare, examine and evaluate alternative scenarios. Any measure based on the Financial Market Stability Act, which requires agreement with the Federal Chancellor, was taken in accordance with the law in agreement with me. Questions 5 and 6 – clear answers facilitate political discussion – are to be answered with a clear no. Questions 9 to 11: The assessment of the Bank's situation and the general financial market situation has been the subject of several discussions between the National Bank Governor Ewald Novotny and me. At this critical time, there have been very frequent discussions on how the crisis of derivatives, the speculation crisis, our institutions and, in general, economic, economic confidence have affected. On the question 13: The role of the Secretary of State attached to the Minister of Finance is to support the Minister of Finance and results from the business division – which you know – at the time. On the question 18, in which it is asked whether I had direct contacts with Bavaria: a clear no. Questions 20 to 24 concern the area of competence – as you know – of the Federal Ministry of Finance. Questions 25 to 27 deal with the dinner that appears again and again. It is a dinner at the invitation of the Federal President. The Federal President is certainly not interpreted by me. However, your question is independent, which is also in these two areas: How did this discussion about insolvency take place during this period? . I can point out once again that the Task Force, consisting of representatives of the National Bank, Financial Market Supervision and the Federal Ministry of Finance, did not express its views only in its first report, has assessed the effects of insolvency negatively and thus has not come to a decision for an insolvency - orderly or disorderly -. You have made this clear in a very thick, very clear report. The opinion then came from a consultative page which ventilated the issue of insolvency and justified the arguments from its point of view. And to that – and this shows the conscientiousness – the task force was again asked to take a position. ==References== On March – that is exactly this time – it also issued a supplementary opinion stating its view that it is opposed to insolvency. In doing so, we have also taken note of all the additional arguments put forward by other parties – I mean, politically, which have come over and over again during this period. I am therefore saying this so clearly because not any dinners, lunches or afternoons decide what is happening in the Republic, but it was taken by the Taskforce a second time after the original report quite specific. To comment on this report, the then Minister of Finance also called on the Task Force. This opinion has been delivered by all these representatives exactly at the time you address them in such detail. On the question 28: In principle, the selection of consultants is the task of the institutions of the bank and the owner's representative; you know that. On question 29: At its last meeting, the Federal Government gave its opinion on the challenges and assumed the constitutional conformity. Question 30: I welcomed the establishment of the Commission of Inquiry under the direction of President Dr. Griss – it was held by Minister of Finance Spindelegger – from the beginning. And even though I expected a few points and did not expect others, I did not go ahead with the report for safety reasons – as the others did – but rather welcomed both the establishment and the person of Dr. Griss always as being particularly independent. I am still saying that the assessments that have been made there must be taken into account by the competent authorities. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] That is, where the assessments include calls or indirect calls, the competent authorities of course need to intensify, improve and improve errors. There, of course, where there are other opinions – as in the Court of Auditors – is, of course, to be taken without prejudice to the position. The report cannot be shoved. On the contrary: The report is an opportunity also to learn and improve from mistakes, so that – and this is probably the decisive one – the institutions of the Republic, the existing institutions of the Republic are best prepared for the future, if at some point again such difficult decisions or decision-making processes come to the Republic. I hope that we have made the necessary arrangements both by law and by political means, so that a federal country does not assume any such liability at all in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e7751	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes, with each club having an overall speaking time of 25 minutes. First of all, Mr Podgorschek has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e7778	Mr President. Dear Lady, honourable gentlemen of the Federal Government! I can say, first of all, that I am very happy because I have been dealing with the Causa Hypo Alpe-Adria for months, that it is now finally a matter of setting up an investigation committee. I admit, I was really skeptical at the beginning, Mr Bundeskanzler, whether this Griss Commission will produce an objective result because I have feared that it will deliver a beautiful result. I was wrong! The Griss report is very objective and well prepared and also offers the opportunity for us, based on this Griss report, to continue with the Examining Committee. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But if I have heard your words in part today, I have already got the impression, Federal Chancellor, that You either have not read the Griss report, or you are showing me autistic political behaviour and do not want to take note of this report. For the Committee's future, it is in no way a question of putting people at the forefront, but it is simply a question of showing the multi-organ failure of the state, the political leaders, the authorities and the supervision. It is about whether the system is guilty or whether there has been individual failure. These are the crucial questions. Or were there any specific instructions? Or was it also a matter of preemptive obedience? - That too is to be clarified. When I remember that the National Bank still categorized or classified the bank as not distressed in 2008, and later it turned out that it did not vote at all, I wonder: Was it an instruction, or was it just a forerunnerous obedience? – The Committee has to clarify this too! Putting back on the stereotyped accusation that Jörg Haider and the liberals were guilty is too little for me. I now need to repeat the words of Heinz-Christian Strachenicht that we are on our responsibility. Last En- Mr Matznetter has already confirmed in a “In the Center” broadcast that Heinz-Christian Strachediese has already massively criticized the process in 2004. If you remember: In 2005, Jörg Haider split off from FPÖ, and sometimes his process in Carinthia was a reason for this. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with representatives of SPÖ and Greens.]] Mr Walser, you can laugh quietly. I was already involved at the time and I know what it was all about. [[Intervocations with SPÖ and Greens.]] We know the mistakes made by the country groups in Carinthia. But I should like to point out that at certain times, even in those days, the country of Vorarlberg has entered more liabilities in relation to the budget than Carinthia. So it's not just a Carinthian problem. What is the purpose of this committee? – First and foremost, we want the damage to the state and to be minimized for the taxpayer. Secondly, the Bayern should also be held responsible because it must not be forgotten that they have also continued this hypertrophic expansion course, which was started during the Carinthian period, between 2007 and 2009. However, it is also important to highlight speculators and profiters and to take part in the end. It is also important to bring to the curtain who has actually benefited accordingly. It is to be clarified whether other interests were also relevant in play and play. This concerns in particular this so-called nationalization without need: Should someone be protected? Who, in the end, benefited from this nationalization? Have bank representatives contacted members of the government to advance this nationalization? Interesting is also the behavior afterwards. I want You do not torture with figures today, but we will still have enough opportunity to deal with this in the Committee. It is interesting to note that, in 2009, securitised bonds amounted to 20 billion outside; they have been reduced to 12 billion by 2014, so they have been reduced by 8 billion. Who benefited? – This has, as it were, been thrown into the throats of the speculators. The other banks' financing lines were still at 7.5 billion in 2009, which had already decreased to 4.66 billion in 2013. That means, consciously, funds have been deducted in this bank to serve others. There is also to be clear who's behind it. It is also obvious whether insolvency – the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany has now already suggested that it was thought about – would not have been the better alternative. A review in court would have been the most objective revision, and every witness would have been bound to the truth. That's what I'm asking myself: Who's afraid it's being dealt with in court? It also raises the question of who has benefited in addition to consulting contracts and who has illegally benefited from the transactions of the Hypo Alpe-Adria outside the bank. All these things have to be clarified. It surprises me that in recent days I have already received e-mails from so-called financial service providers who vehemently oppose insolvency – yes, of course, in fear of losing money for speculators! What do I expect to do after the end of this committee? First of all, the liberation from the encroachment of our state, including the real economy and the Austrian banking system by politics. I expect an end to this, yes, I would say, party philzes and influence by political and interest groups also in the financial sector. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! From my point of view, the banks and the financial sector in Austria need an exemption because we have been looking at the banking sector with planning methods – and I have been saying that for years now. This banking sector has long been eliminated from the real economy. While in the real economy all are exposed to market hardness, banks can switch and operate as they want. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I can only say that this should not give the impression that everything would be solved with the problem of Hypo Alpe-Adria. We still have – and this is the tip of the iceberg – to solve the problem ÖVAG. We have problems with Hypo Tirol. Tomorrow, “NEWS” will report on problems with the Hypo Lower Austria, the Steiermärkische Sparkasse and so on. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What we need is an exemption from the Austrian banking sector. We should take advantage of these opportunities and take this Committee of Inquiry to ensure that Austria is raised to an international level where policies and banks are no longer restricted.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e7888	Mr Klubobmann Mag is next spoken. Arbitrator. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e7909	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen, the Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Firstly, on the subject of U-committee, because today a number of Members of the opposition parties, i.e. the necessary quarter, are asking for an investigation committee to be set up, so that the whole long chapter of the political debate, as the investigation in Parliament looks out on the subject of Hypo, finds the beginning of the end, namely the reply that we are now using this committee of inquiry. This is also a right with the new rules of the game that we have given ourselves, which the minority, a quarter of the Members, can perceive, so that we – which is also very important to us as a minority that is not in use as a minority – come into a reasonable process to clarify the links, with the aim of clarifying political responsibility, but also dealing with our political responsibility in such a way that we can now consider whether we need to change a law or a number of laws in order to, in the future – which hopefully will not be – if a problem arises again, perhaps to have some improvement from the legal situation, say to draw the lessons from this question. The new rules – which may also be important – are also a contribution to greater control and transparency, an enrichment for parliamentarism. It will be up to all of us, but, of course, especially to the opposition parties that we live these rules in such a way that a reasonable discussion, an objective discussion, a targeted, inconspicuous discussion in this context, and not a tribunalal, showy element. I have heard from many speeches that this path is likely to be taken in such a way. But again and again there are many shifts from the old rhetoric, which we hope will all leave behind. Today's urgent question differs from the application for a statute once in a conspicuous point: As it has been introduced by the FPÖ, the urgent request of the part of the time in Carinthia is completely excluded. But – hear, hear! – we have the responsibility and the origin of the hypo-debakel, of course, in Carinthia and thus also in the then Carinthian state government of FPÖ, with high country liability, expansion course, without risk management... [[Abg. Strache: Griss report: all parties!]] [[Abg. Just quote from the Griss report!]] Yeah, I'll be right there. [[Abg. Strache: All parties, even SPÖ!]] A good hint, I will immediately pick up in the sense of the new style! [[Abg. Brace: Cite from the Griss Report...!]] Mrs Griss writes in this report: The Hypo Alpe-Adria expanded to states where the “law-law structures were only under construction”. The number of qualified employees was also limited. “It was evident that this meant that there were specific requirements for risk management systems and control facilities.” ‘It is not clear that auditors, bank supervisors or the country of Carinthia (Kärntner Landesholding) would have used the opportunities open to them to a sufficient degree to limit the risks.’ Here too we read from Mrs Griss: The country of Carinthia had taken over blank bonds at billions, which were never redeemable. “The risk for the country of Carinthia was not calculable because the liability for all future liabilities of HBint and HBA was valid. Her highest level reached the state liability of €23 billion in 2007. Here too, Mrs. Griss explained where the responsibility lay in Carinthia. There were two interesting speeches by FPÖ delegates today. Mr Strache said that the liability was irresponsible. This is once a turning point in rhetoric, if it is very important to stress that it was these 23 billions of liabilities that we did not come around in the question: [[Abg. Strache: I have said that since 2003!]] [[Abg. Strache: Since 2003 you should sharpen your ears!]] Should the bank simply argue, or do you have to state it? - That's the problem. If the beginning was so badly laid there in the country of Carinthia, then unfortunately the alternatives were also limited afterwards. However, we have heard from Mr Podgorschek that precisely because of this disaster, the BZÖ split off from the FPÖ. This is actually also a co-debt admission of the FPÖ in Carinthia at the time! I am glad that at least here is the realization once so far that this whole disaster, which hates all people in this Republic, has begun in Carinthia under a head of state Jörg Haider. One simply has to say that responsibility is always with the head of state in these questions! [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] Perhaps it is also possible to remind the television viewer of the 2008 environment, a quote that Jean-Claude Trichet, the ECB President of this time, has used: If the hypo goes on, a domino effect is threatened like Lehman Brothers. – Say: What was the outcome of the financial crisis was also considered a problem by the European Central Bank at the time. It was an interview in the “Small Newspaper” in exactly December 2009. There you can see the possibilities of action: To avoid this risk was the decisive one! Therefore, the experts from BMF, National Bank, FMA and ECB were also in agreement, which, by the way, does not dispute Mrs Griss in her report: Without an emergency state, much more devastating consequences would have come to us! [[Abg. Strache: She expressly says that there was no need for nationalization!]] We will discuss all these questions in detail next year. [[Abg. Strache: Take note of the Griss report!]] I do not give up the hope that some of the arguments you have come up with, that you understand them, as the situation was then, that the alternatives were very limited and that you decided to take the less risky alternative than to take the risk that the whole country is going ahead of the dogs. I think that's right! I thought that was right at the time, and I still think it was right today.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e8060	The next item is Mrs Tamandl's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e8081	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Dear Secretary of State! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, Mr Strache, we have always failed in the post-war period. This has already been discussed in a debate we have held on the Griss report. If Mrs Griss wrote her report six years later and spoke to people who had to make decisions in a difficult situation six years before, of course, this has quite different conditions than this said night or at this said time the nationalization. [[Abg. Kickl: But that's every report...!]] But let us come back to Carinthia, Mr Schieder has already mentioned it: The main responsibility is still the head of state! If, in the said vote, in April 2004, all the political groups, including the Greens, voted in favour of the liability, it must already be said that in a certain way it was a personal issue for the head of state to push the liability up completely, as well as an expansion that was no longer controllable. That is also stated in the Griss report. You can't always pick out the raisins from the Griss report. In this expansion course, everyone must have been informed that this was no longer possible at all, what happened, not even the liabilities that were superfluous. I believe that – and this is a little off my mind in your request to the Examining Committee – one has to light up a lot more, how these liabilities and this superfluous acceptance of liability have come about, but also, of course, – I have said the latter – that the bank is then sold to the Bavarian Landesbank in a majority way and retains the liability. That's a master achievement! But then you call on it or actually think: The Republic will already jump in if it goes wrong, and we will continue to cash the liability commissions after the bank has already been sold to Bayern. – You can’t escape responsibility there! Mr Podgorschek, you said: We must clarify the responsibility, we must clarify where the money came from, and we must also make criminal clarifications. – The criminal clarifications and criminal offences are to be clarified by the courts! We will only clarify political responsibility in the Committee of Inquiry. We will also clarify – and this is a little too short for me throughout the debate – how the bank auditors looked like, why, although the shortcomings have always been identified, in risk management, in lending, in other areas, in the internal control system, why this has never found its precipitation in a confirmation note. We will have to explain why banking supervision, the FMA or, for example, the National Bank, has never taken action, although these shortcomings, these risk failures have been repeatedly highlighted. It is not enough to always say that politics is ultimately to blame. Of course, there are also those responsible in the supervisory system who should have been very likely to clarify what is at stake in the risk and in the shortcomings. This means that a clarification will also be made here. There we come to the consequences. Of course, in addition to political responsibility, a committee of inquiry must also show consequences for the future, for example, how to change laws in banking supervision. Otherwise, a committee of inquiry would always be just what is happening in the past, but never what shows what you could do better in the future. That means that the lessons from a so-called committee of inquiry will also be new. I would like to stress once again that we hope that the new rules of procedure will come up with an objective debate and an objective clarification. I wish that we would no longer have many of these show effects and these Tribunalal effects which we used to have, under the old Rules of Procedure, but that we should really adopt these points in a factual and chronological way, which are mentioned in the request. I hope this also from the opposition, especially from the FPÖ, which has made a small Schlenker again today: that in 2005 Landesführer Haider founded the BZÖ and then was actually BZÖ. There are also persons in your ranks who will sit in the Committee of Inquiry. One of these will still be talking to me, Mr Darmann, who has been there everywhere! Mr Strache always says: A Soletti, everywhere! [[Abg. The Emperor!]] With the blue, at the BZÖ; you were in the country day, you were Klubobmann's deputy. [[Abg. Darmann: When?]] [[Abg. Darmann: Tell me when!]] You've been there everywhere, and you're going to be in the investigation committee. [[Abg. Darmann: Half-truths...!]] We'll see if you'll find out about this whole thing. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In conclusion: All that has been said today on the responsibility of the Federal Chancellor, on the responsibility of the former Finance Ministers, will also be explained in the Committee of Inquiry. But one thing I want to hold right now: I've been asking again and again lately: Will you agree to an extension of the Committee of Inquiry? Then I always wonder why we should now deal with whether we agree to an extension. If we negotiate objectively, examine quickly and do not resist, then we do not need to think about an extension at all now. [[Abg. Strache: Do you know that Darmann was only in the Landtag from 2009? A correction would already be appropriate!]] In this sense, we hope the best, so the opposition also bears its responsibility, just as we will certainly do.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e8193	Next, Mr Magistrate. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e8215	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! One would like to think that history is happening, because the real meaning of this special session, which one simply has to say, was original and still is that after the new Rules of Procedure of three opposition parties are now requested to set up a committee of inquiry to the Hypo-Causa on the basis of the Hypo-Research Committee. I shall therefore deal mainly with the history of this and, if time remains, perhaps make some concrete suggestions, because the Griss report has actually done a great deal of preparatory work here and the Chancellor has expressed himself there or there. First of all, however, on the real occasion of this meeting today. We will not then debate the introduction of the desire of the liberals, the Greens and the Group of the NEOS. That is why, at this moment, the historic moment is that this request is brought up here by the speakers of the political groups in question. So we can now assume that in these seconds here in the House the procedure we agreed on last year after half a year is going on. We have the hope that we have made the offer and, I believe, we also receive appropriate signals that the political groups – the majority of them, of course, also have their rights, they actually have the bigger rights, and that must be true in democracy – can understand that we will be able to handle this as quickly as possible and without additional loops if we want to, so to speak, without pumping. That's where we have great hope. I also thank the ÖVP and SPÖ that we received at least informal feedback on our request. We have hardly changed it any more, we have even received suggestions, and we assume that the informal procedure has worked in advance. I also have every understanding of this when club members of the government groups said: Well, they wouldn't officially declare themselves now. It's a delicate terrain, too. But that's how far it's going to be. This is an information to colleagues. It is not possible to forget once again how this has always been done so far. Now we have the new possibility of minority law, which has only happened by chance. I look back on something – and it won't be that comfortable anymore – whose response you consistently refuse. We have already had a few times in the debate that this disaster of the Hypo Alpe-Adria in its form would not have been necessary anyway, I am convinced, not only because we point to Carinthia or to certain persons there, but also because there have been serious mistakes at the federal level. Serial! That's really scary. With every kind of change you have the feeling that exactly the wrong path has been taken, and that 20 times in a row. However, it was so that we were already very close to it, here in the house in 2007, the so-called Banking Investigation Committee, which was then fought. We have just put him through by a majority, because a historic window has gone up, but then, in the crucial phase when we started with the Hypo Alpe-Adria, we wanted to come to the Raiffeisen and should, as we say, he was turned off. To this day, it remains unanswered, I do not want to say that it would be quite unexplained, especially again by representatives of the SPÖ – the ÖVP is not expected to make as many contributions – as it actually happened in the Republic, and also in the hope that this is better now. Important, well-known SPÖ Members were with me already in spring 2007 and said: We will not be able to carry on the investigations, let alone conclude. The pressure from certain banking sectors is so great that not only the EIAs are going to break the doors, they never wanted it anyway, but we, the Social Democrats, are also under direct pressure from the The Committee has supported the subject-matter of the investigation so that it could not be further processed or processed in the key points. So this pressure on one, then the largest party here in the house, now also, was exerted. These are the dramatic findings, so to speak, on the meta-meta level, which we should always highlight. Such processes, if they are still possible at all, have been ended by the setting up of a committee. So it will come about – I may say a little bit about the stages of the investigation of this committee of inquiry – that things that were strangled back then are now being examined again. I guess one of the results will be: If not only politicians of certain parties had taken influence on other politicians at the time, but also well-known representatives from the financial sector in Austria were pressured on Members of the Austrian financial sector, who were supposed to be committed to the free conscience, we could have already achieved results that would have stopped the madness that we were writing a sick bank healthy, just to transfer it € 1 billion in 2008. This would not have been possible if more knowledge had already come to light at that time. [[Congratulation with greens, FPÖ and NEOS.]] This concerns, for example, those authorities – the Chancellor mentioned them, and I do not want to go further – which have been called until the end as the highest advisers, behind which you can hide behind a paradise, but which you always use, and which have been used entirely, through party politics. The question is whether this is really the best experts in the Republic, but there may be different opinions. You have also offered this variety of opinions. In any case, the same experts were active from the year 2000 – and that is why the subject matter of the investigation is so far back. Indeed, we have succeeded in not starting the investigations somewhere in the middle of it, but in including the whole history of the origin. For years the most critical reports have been available, but they have not led to any consequences, and that is even more absurd. On the other hand, this means that there was a knowledge in the responsible bodies that something was already going wrong and worse, even before the financial crisis, because at the same time it was a huge criminal case. It is precisely at the time when you get there that the files are not delivered at first. As we insist, they will be published, but they will then be blackened – at that time it was invented – because you have seen that – happla! – Members are able to draw their conclusions from it. So, with the knowledge of the then Minister of Finance, one has blackened this together with the National Bank, so that we do not get everything here. And at the end of the day, the Committee has actually been turned off. Of course, it is not possible for us to involve ourselves in the subject-matter of the investigation, but it will not be possible for us to roll up these central questions of democratic control, parliamentary control once again. They're easy to put with. On the one hand, this is the tragedy of history, but on the other hand the good end. At the time, in 2007, I could have stood there and blazed with the keyring, if I had not been so horrendous and frustrated about what the majority had done so that what we have been doing today. We shall therefore examine this phase again. That is why it is so crucial because at that time not only because of Carinthia, but in total, was laid the reason for this supervisory failure, the political failure into the ministry. That was with cause for all that happened later. It is all the more incomprehensible that, despite this knowledge, one has been so miserably prepared that one has got the whole thing hanged by the Bayern, as one could say salopp. This describes two main phases of the investigation. But if I do, I have to ask myself third, third phase, what I will do the next day if I already take over this responsibility. Is it just that I claim I'm a bank? I'm going in there, turning everything around, doing no research results anyway, or hardly any of those like the CSI Hypo interestingly, I'm pretending to be a bank, explaining to the outside world that everything's going well. Instead, one should have set up the extermination unit at that time. Then, when you should have gone over a long time to strive for an orderly insolvency, task force back or forth – we have just heard who was sitting there – you have once again agreed to do the other thing. In my opinion, then, we were at least poorly prepared at all times if we did not do the wrong thing at all. That is why I am at the end very confident, even if we are already in history, that it will no longer be possible for a majority to misuse the right of majority in itself, but that with more possibilities we can continue to examine more deeply and hopefully also finished. [[President Head gives the bell sign]] It was never the problem that a Member of Parliament, Pilz, or a Member of Parliament from me, would have overlaid something, Tribunal and the whole. The only tribunal that gave it was that against the chairman Moser. We really have the opportunity here – the final sentence – and we will use it to work differently. If, in spite of majority law, there have been investigation committees, we are always thinking of Noricum, Lucona, Telekom, Eurofighter. It was never an escapade of the minority. On the contrary, there was always the danger, and that was often made enough that the majority had turned it off. That's all over now. [[President Head gives the bell sign again.]] This is the success, and now we're going to see what we're doing from it. [[I should like to congratulate the Greens, as well as the representatives of FPÖ and NEOS.]] [[13:12]] Request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e8320	I declare that the request supported by at least 46 Members. 1/US on the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry pursuant to § 33 GOG-NR for the examination of political responsibility for the operations relating to the Hypo Group Alpe-Adria (Hypo Investigation Committee). [[Congratulations with FPÖ, Greens and NEOS.]] This is in accordance with § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure to all Members. The assignment of the request to the Committee for Rules of Procedure shall be made in accordance with § 33 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure at the end of this sitting. The desire is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e8568	Mrs Klubobfrau has now arrived Dr. Nachbaur. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e8590	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Government members! Ladies and gentlemen of the House and dear taxpayers! According to the Griss report, we know that the participation of the crisis bank in 2009 was by no means alternative. We also know that the decision has been postponed over a bad bank from foreign motives. It is more likely to have been heard from the advice of PR consultants that as politicians you have to make a good figure than leaving an expert in the vicinity. The task of the Committee of Inquiry, which of course will be constructively supported, will be to use the names in particular so that political responsibility can finally be clarified, and finally to find out who was the greatest creditors at the time of so-called emergency nationalization, because taxpayers have a right to know for whom they actually need to bleed. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team as well as representatives of Greens and NEOS.]] But the problem we have to face is a more comprehensive one than simply the reprocessing of the Hypo Alpe-Adria scandal. That's all just the growth of a sick system. Just as the growth of a sick system is that Austria is constantly falling in all important rankings, that despite the government's opposite imagination assessments, the economy is getting worse and worse, that the unemployment rate is constantly rising, that our universities – perhaps with one exception – are not even falling below the top 200 in the world, that we have the highest inflation rate in the euro area and that many people can hardly afford daily life. All this is the outflow of a sick system, just as it is the outflow of a sick system, that the federal army is broken, the military music has been preserved. That is, the heavy weapons are being dismantled and the soldiers can march in the rhythm, but with “behind” boots. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] All of this is the growth of the sick system, just as the Burgtheater is involved in a huge financial scandal, the city of Linz and Land of Salzburg have completely speculated with tax money, and probably many more, of which we do not know yet, as always trickled, debt and liability are outsourced, so that not even the Court of Auditors gets insight. All of this is growth of the sick system in Austria and associated with a staff problem. Political life seems to be determined in this country by survival strategies, by the question of own wealth. It is always about maximisation and client policy, so that you are not elected. This is probably also due to the lack of professional alternatives. The welfare state is becoming increasingly thicker and more inflated, while the money pockets of the working people are becoming slimmer and slimmer. Politics conveys to people the feeling that they care about people, but you have to ask yourself what price the socialist welfare state looks at us. We'll pay it all ourselves! Dear taxpayers! It's your hard money spent by the state. You buy yourself practically with your own money. The politicians don't use their own money to win voices, but their money, dear taxpayers. We must therefore call into question our entire political system. Policymakers and ministers in particular must be managers, have expertise, have competence and be willing to serve their country for one or two periods. For good party soldiers, who are always loyal to the party that uphold the flags, there should also be recognition of a party order, for example, but not a ministerial post which they cannot then exercise. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] A headhunt recently compared the CVs of 4,000 Austrian top managers and around 800 Austrian top politicians, and he wrote that there are worlds in between. Most politicians wouldn't even be department head in a company. We trust you, dear taxpayers, trust these people your tax money in and more, your future and the future of our children. The diagnosis of system failures in Austria refers not only to the hypo-Alpe-Adria disaster, but also to the main areas of Austrian government policy. It's not going to be right with money. The government budget is 52. Time in a row without interruption in the minus. And again you think about new taxes, but new taxes have never led to an improvement or even a balanced budget, but still to even more government expenditure. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] This eaty state still needs more money for its own inefficient administration and for its own preservation of power. Dear taxpayers, don't be bought with your own money! Let us take the Hypo Alpe-Adria disaster as an opportunity to fundamentally reform our country! Let's start with a look at the country's liabilities! It was not just the four-party decision in the Carinthian Landtag that allowed incredible national arrests. This also exists or at least existed in all other federal states. Only if I look at the city of Vienna: The liability of the city of Vienna for the Central Savings Bank in 2001 amounted to an incredible 122 billion euros. Despite the sale of Bank Austria to HVB in 2006, the city still has over €6 billion. So you have to watch what you're accusing the Carinthians of. The country's liability for the rest of the federal states and their banks totalled €35 billion, and no national budget would prevent the entry into liability. Let us take this hypo disaster to the occasion to finally solve the federalism problem in Austria! We need an insolvency and settlement right for local authorities. We need transparency. The national and municipal liabilities must all be disclosed, the Court of Auditors must be able to look everywhere. And in the end, Switzerland is much more small-scalely organized than Austria, but the administration is cheaper by around a third. The main reason for this is tax competition. We need less centralism and power in the head of water Vienna, but we also need responsibility in the countries, which must stand straight for money and for money spending. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach]] Let us take this hypo disaster as the occasion to respect the rule of law again, including the political caste! If a political class for doing and acting – no matter how negligent, possibly guilty and criminal that is – does not have to stand straight – for example, in the case of Hypo Alpe-Adria – while tax-paying citizens are being passed on new laws and regulations and even punished for Bagatelles, there is a problem in the relationship of trust between the population and government. – In Styria, you are even going to jail because of the use of a false spoon. It is also new at the ÖIAG that it is the same topic: The Stock Act states that there must be a cooling-off period of two years before changing from the Board of Directors to the Supervisory Board, and for politicians and representatives of the social partners, there is now no need for a cooling phase. The trade unionists have prevailed, they do not want to wait as normal people do, no, for trade unionists, politicians apply again extra sausages, other rules than for the normal people. That's not fair! It is no wonder that politics then decouples from the people, there are more and more non-electors and the abandoned political caste has less and less to do with the normal world. For normal people, on the other hand, new rules are constantly being created, new laws are formulated. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] For example, there are 550 new taxpayers who have to hunt the businessmen to see if they are not mistakenly slipped into any ambiguity of the tax system in order to criminalise them and punish them juicy. If in the end it is political arbitrariness that decides on freedom and punishment, then we are more likely to approach a society with dictatorial traits. Let us therefore take the hypo-desaster as an opportunity to state that our right must also apply to the political class, for grossly negligent and guilty action it needs a political liability. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] It cannot be that the rule of law applies to the people, but not to politicians. And let us also take this disaster of the Hypo Alpe-Adria bank as the occasion to bring better personnel into politics. We cannot allow our country to be guided by noisy professional politicians who do not have the necessary competence in the respective department and who do not have an economic understanding, but probably because of the lack of professional alternatives in the first place have their own powers in mind and, as for example, seem to rely more on PR consultants than on expert advice. We need politicians with competence and backbone. This whole hypo disaster also has a chance. I would like to quote here the genuinely suspicious ‘NZZ’, whose opinion I am referring to here: “ Austria needs a human, moral and institutional liberation ” – thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e8671	The next speaker is Mr Klubobmann Dr. Strolz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e8693	Mr President. Dear Members of the Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear citizens, citizens on the galleries, on the screens! It is an important milestone that we are happening today, with this desire to set up a committee of inquiry on the new rules of the game that we have jointly given ourselves. Over 20 years have passed after these new rules. We took it over the edge before Christmas and now take the next step, pass the next milestone, join this minority law with today's first investigative committee. There are 52 questions – who wants to look at it, I've just twittered it, put it online on Facebook. I think it is also a milestone because here three opposition parties in very serious, responsible work have focused on the subject of the investigation: What do we want to study, what is realistic, what will help the Republic, what will help taxpayers? If the colleague Tamandl of the ÖVP – she is now, I think, not there – has previously complained that she is a bit sad that, for example, the liabilities of the state government are not in Carinthia or the country day, I have to wonder a little, because either is the intention or is it ignorance: Of course, these issues, which she has accused, are not in the execution of the federal government, so they cannot be included in this request for the establishment of an investigation committee. You would be the first to claim this and therefore, of course, to disavow this instrument, if we made this mistake. [[towards ÖVP]] – No, we don’t make this mistake, but we do it properly, with proper preparation and responsibility. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] However, Mr Bundeskanzler, if you say in the execution on banking supervision, you could not act differently on the issue of insolvency, because the experts, experts have somehow recommended to you, then you should have already asked what experts, experts are. Now I come to the point where Werner Kogler was quite right to say that it is precisely the new quality of this committee of inquiry that he cannot be turned off anymore. Because one thing is clear: If the Banking Investigation Committee had not been turned off in 2006/2007, we would have saved up billions – I am sure – and then, of course, we would have a different look at our control bodies today. Mr Bundeskanzler, you would have had a different look at the issue of nationalization without need and the issue of insolvency, because you would of course have had to call into question the machinations of banking supervision, in particular the central bank. It would have been quite clear, for example, that the judgment on the participation capital was ‘non-distressed’ in December 2008. If one had made his work critical in Parliament in 2006/2007 and if you had not turned it off, then the National Bank would not have been able to do so in 2008. That's perfectly clear. Already in 2006, suspicions were on the table that the control mechanisms of the National Bank and financial market surveillance are insufficient. Already at that time there were explicit indications of questionable transfers to a shipyard in Croatia. Already at that time there were questionable indications of questionable practices of Cypriot companies in the context of Hypo Alpe-Adria. There were already investigations of the Interpol against the Hypo Alpe-Adria. And already at the time, manipulative notes were discussed within the Committee of Inquiry. And then, when it got hot, you turned it off, and these things could never be finally negotiated, never definitely put. Those responsible could not be transferred. The valued citizen is the new quality: Now, if we find a Smoking Gun or a suspicious moment where it gets tight, then it can't be turned off anymore. There's a applause for that, I think. [[Congratulation with NEOS and Greens as well as the Abg. Arbitrator.]] I hope that the Federal Chancellor has applauded, I do not have a rear-view mirror – we need to install it in Parliament's reconstruction. Not until 2006: For me, it's amazing that those who wanted to know could know before. I remember a study trip to Brussels in 2000/2001 at the invitation of the Institute for the Danube and Central Europe (IDM). I was sitting next to an insider from the Balkans, who had already said, in 2001, that the Hypo Alpe-Adria was involved in criminal activities. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] – No, within the framework of the Institute for the Danube and Central Europe, if you listen, Mr. Schieder. Listen and don't make the king of free calls, that won't help! Listen, and then you can ask questions! I think you could have known at the time. They did not want to know because, of course, the machinations and the chains and the bundles were simply too narrow. You knew: We have a bad conscience here, better not a reconnaissance, or we'll get into the drawing. In conclusion: What do we want and what can we achieve with this new committee of inquiry? First: Of course, we want to clarify the political responsibility. The Griss Commission couldn't do that either. It wasn't her focus. Secondly, Of course, we want to take improvements at last, as we can do better in the supervision of the various institutions of the Republic, but also, of course, in the merger of the various institutions of the Republic. Thirdly, We want to follow the path of money. We must try to bring back every schilling we have lost in the schilling phase, and every euro we lose in the euro phase, where it is possible. We owe this to the citizens who have to pay this bill for years and decades. In so far a great day, an important milestone for us and, as I believe, a sort of liberation for Austrian parliamentarianism.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e8793	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Darmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e8814	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! What do we learn from the speeches of this morning, but also from those just heard, especially from the head of the Federal Government, Werner Faymann, who is responsible for this disastrous hypo-stateization, but also from that of Mr. Klubobmann's colleague Arbitrator? – We learn from the fact that it is too little for education and transparency, but also for freedom and democracy, to shine with beautiful words, ladies and gentlemen. However, we also learn from the need to deal with these thematic complexes, with terrorism in the morning, but now also with this disastrous economic development of the Hypo Alpe-Adria bank, that it would be necessary for all those who speak here to have at least once to deal with the Griss report. Ladies and gentlemen, from your speech, it was indeed not obvious, ladies and gentlemen, because your statements are the best argument for accepting a proper, comprehensive task here – I emphasize – in order to inform the Causa Hypo Alpe-Adria in this minority investigation committee without delay in the interests of the population, ladies and gentlemen – without delay! [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] We now only need to congratulate each other to a certain extent, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, that last year we have worked out this minority right for the establishment and procedure of the committee of inquiry in scientific discussions with the representatives of the Federal Government. First of all, it is thanks to the people of Austria who, with their petitions and the citizens' initiative, have built up the pressure in that the government has stood with their backs on the wall and after 22 times has had to agree finally to the prevention of Enlightenment and Transparency in the Hypo-Causa: on the one hand, the reform of the committee of inquiry, on the other hand, also the establishment and the notice that we, as an opposition, as a minority, have to control this government, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] However, the population has also made it possible – and I am taking this immediately – for a government's officials, who are German chancellors – who are not in the room right now, to be able to withdraw Parliamentary Enlightenment from the Committee of Inquiry, as in the past it was simply possible through majority decisions in a committee of inquiry and has also happened. We also know that the new legal bases – and it has already been said today – will no longer make it possible for the Federal Government to simply turn away. There is still a door that can open up red and black if they really want to escape an unscrupulous reconnaissance – which will in the truest sense of the word brisance for red and black –. And that's a new choice on its own. Only, ladies and gentlemen, you will hopefully be careful to explain to the people that you want to save yourself in new elections in the near future, just to prevent the Enlightenment of the Causa Hypo. This will certainly not be the case, because the population would know how to evaluate this step and also have the consequences of re-election. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is now necessary to make some clarifications on the speeches that have already been made, which are absolutely necessary. First of all, to Mr. Klubobmann Schieder: Mr Klubobmann Schieder, I may ask you to pay your attention briefly. In your comments, you have criticized the fact that the parliamentary club in its urgent request has excluded the area of Carinthian responsibilities and occurrences by 2008. As a clubman, you would have to know that we can only make this urgent request to the Federal Chancellor as the responsible head of government, who was only in office from 2008 onwards, from this period in order to consult him about his responsibilities in the Causa Hypo. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] This is a very clear procedure, which is set out by the Rules of Procedure. And we've done the right thing here, too. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Secondly, Mr Bundeskanzler, where you may still be following this debate here in the House, unfortunately you have once again shone badly - although you had years of preparation to deal with this subject, and had also had the Griss Investigation Commission report for preparation - by proving yourself here and saying that the decision of the Carinthian Landtag of 22 October was taken. April 2004, with which the Kärntner Landesholding Act was reformed and the country's liability extended accordingly until 2007, has nothing to do with the current head of state Dr. Peter Kaiser. I ask you, Federal Chancellor Werner Faymann, Mr SPÖ-Chairman Werner Faymann Where are your consequences for the head of state Dr. Peter Emperor and the party presidents of SPÖ in Carinthia, Dr. Peter Kaiser, if you even go so far in many of your speeches, an already deceased citizen of this country, a head of state still in retrospect, although he has died, in prison and here to discredit, but in his own ranks there is not even the intention – if this is the biggest crime in this whole system case with the country's liability – that you take the consequence and become active accordingly with a withdrawal of office against the head of state of Carinthia or at least do one thing: to dissociate the head of state of Carinthia Dr. Peter Kaiser in in his role as party chairperson and also to exclude him from the SPÖ? That would be consistent, ladies and gentlemen, if you would like to point your finger at others. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And when I'm already there, Mrs. Tamandl: If you now go down so far – although you didn't have it at all – and here as parliamentarian a former national parliamentarian that he has perceived the responsibilities to the best of knowledge and conscience in a country day, but then don't say so – because you want to shine here with half-truths and once again draw a distorted picture of a freeman – that I only changed my responsibilities in the Carinthian Landtag in 2009, when the hypo was already sold, when the first tranches of the financial nature of the Republic of Austria were flown to the Hypo, the banking crisis surrounded by Bayern, as I mean, had a very bad crisis management, and then the nationalization was led by you alone, by ÖVP and SPÖ – which is still uniquely and alone to be described as stateization without need – then that's not a fine way. And it is not a responsible way to try to wipe away from a parliamentarian and a colleague here missing facts that seem to you not to be given by God through personal discreditation. This is not a way of dealing, and we do not wish to do so, I would also like to stress this for a future hypo-examination committee. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] We, as the negotiators of this reform of the committee of inquiry, have, from the outset, given the principle that the tribunal in this committee of inquiry should by no means exist anymore. I'm excited. It should be concluded from today's speeches that some seem to have learned nothing about it, namely that it is only a matter of clarification within the meaning of the Austrian taxpayer of the Republic of Austria and will also be made clear by which machinations, interventions, actions or omissions of the damage have been reinforced and intensified in the Hypo Group Alpe Adria. Nothing else needs to be done. In addition to this, it is still a matter of one thing, namely to exclude such damage to the future. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In this sense, there is sufficient work and a corresponding job assignment in front of us by the application submitted today or the request made. I would ask all Members working in this committee to act there in accordance with their responsibilities as parliamentarians and not to hold up the party, but the Republic of Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e8941	Next, Mrs Mag. Greener speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e8962	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The establishment of this Committee of Inquiry is to be welcomed. The population, the Austrians have a right to know what happened around the hypo. You have a right to also receive information about where – in addition to the criminal relevance – political responsibility lies. The application for the setting up of the Committee of Inquiry may be more compact, more focused, but it is a basis for an investigation and is capable of examining political responsibility. [[Abg. Kitzmüller: First vote against and now know everything better! That's unbelievable!]] [[Abg. Kitzmüller:...! That's unbelievable!]] But what is critical? – I judge critically – and [[Further calls to the FPÖ]] They confirm this just now – especially the accompanying music around the submission of the application for the setting up of the U-committee. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] If one lets the media reports of the last days, the last week of the revision, then one recognizes the following: It's known that you're an effective haphazard. Populism is recognized in pure culture. [[Abg. Pretty: By the journalists? Through the media? Who's the effect hasher?]] What about the name-dropping? – In fact, it is not particularly trusting if a party in the run-up to the Committee of Inquiry has already announced that it wants to load 200 people, and in some cases it also announces the names of those persons. This is neither fair nor a confidence in the work of the future committee. Why? - Because it leads to preconceptions. Ladies and gentlemen! A committee of inquiry is not a court. There are no convictions to be made there. This is a question of defining political responsibility. In the run-up to the political group, how does this affect the population? What is the actual task of the Committee of Inquiry? – I quote from the Federal Constitutional Act Article 53: ‘The National Council may use investigation committees by decision. In addition, an investigation committee should be set up at the request of a quarter of its members." [[Abg. Kickl: Now the last journalists are going!]] "In the context of the investigation is a certain completed operation in the area of the execution of the federal government. [ ]’ That is to say – and that is what I would like to say now for the spectators who are watching today's debate in front of the televisions or via live streams – that there is an objective and objective clarification about the hypo processes. [[Abg. Kitzmüller: There will be the contributions from you to be objective!]] It's about the origin of the disaster. This origin lies in the responsibilities of a Clique in the Haider-FPÖ. It is mainly about the beginning of the disaster, but also about the largely known follow-up problems, Mr. Kickl, until 2014. Keywords: bilateral legal issues with the BayernLB. [[Abg. Kickl: But you've gotten the big deal today!]] If you think you already know the main culprits today, a committee of inquiry will lead you to ad absurdum before it starts. [[Abg. Kickl: Ah?! a major culprit! I think you've slept the last two!]] What's this about? Is it about party-political games or is it about information? - It's a question of reconnaissance. This is a central political task. It is also about the importance of politics, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ. It is about the reputation of parliamentarianism as a whole. [[Abg. Cute: Why did you vote against it 20 times?]] Let's ask ourselves: Why did the Griss report arrive so well in the public? . The Commission has adopted a task, and it has taken this task seriously. She has consistently and competently worked on this, and she has then presented and published the result in good time. Clearly, a parliamentary committee of inquiry has different conditions, especially since it is largely media-public. However, certain lessons can be drawn from the Griss report. Which are these? – That’s reality, that’s objectivity and that’s independence. [[Abg. Beautiful: What the SPÖ stands for – traditional!]] Now the role of the media. What's their role? – It will vary depending on access. But I think certain headlines are inappropriate, for example: “The show can start.” – No one is particularly served with this. This is of no use to anyone. Let me summarize: It is about clarifying scandalous practices in the past. It is about clarifying the political responsibility for a huge financial burden for the population, and it is about competence for the future, namely that such or similar wrong decisions are systematically excluded. My appeal is therefore: Let us show the Parliamentary Enlightenment, the Consideration of policy through scientific and competent work, through constructive work in the Committee of Inquiry a great service! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e9119	The next point is Mr Obernoster. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e9140	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and at home in front of the TV screens! I do not know how often we have been dealing with the subject of committee of inquiry. Today is the day: It's used. When I listened to my previous speakers, some in an additional sentence said that we now have to try to correct these mistakes by which it was possible to achieve such a great damage. But the majority of the speeches are clearly going in the direction of political debt allocations from group to group. And of course, a different debt has always been. But what is really a fact in view of all that is already on the table? [[Abg. Podgorschek: Haven't been watching again!]] – The fact is, there is actually no party that has not made any mistakes – the one more, the other less. [[Abg. Podgorschek: I said yes!]] The fact is, however, that we know where this hypo-debakel originates and who has also been politically responsible for it at that time. If I look at the proposal and hear Mr Klubobmann Strolz, a new beginner in politics, I have to say that I am just a little scared today, with what arguments he is trying to defend it. Point 1 of the motion, which we know, goes to nationalization. Carinthia is hardly striped there, but we're going to do it. Then comes the nationalization, and then the mistakes come after this nationalization. I say quite honestly now, and you also know my political activity: I took over my party, the ÖVP in Carinthia, at a time when it was not easy, and I took the consequences that came out of this hypo-debakel. [[Abg. Kickl: The last one turns off the light!]] That didn't make any other party! [[Abg. Brosz: Why didn't you take the point? You have had the request since Friday, with the request to raise further points!]] But I say quite honestly here: I will also be a member of this committee of inquiry. [[Abg. Brosz: What do you want to do for the first block?]] [[Abg. Stroll: It must be out of the execution of the federal government!]] And my really great hope in this Parliament is that at the end of the day and this investigation committee will come out, in whatever form, that it will become such a debacle and something as happened in connection with the hypo under the blessing of political responsibility in Carinthia at that time, never again in this Republic, and that everyone will also have the courage – and the investigation committee will tell us who has been politically guilty of it, I do not want to take advantage of it – to make up here and apologise for it. I've got this for my area on 25 May. ==References====External links== [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] I am very upset when representatives of the Freedom Party make themselves here and make certain statements. I don't want to repeat them. I also do not want to repeat the statements made by Mr Klubobmann's deputy Darmann. But we know something very well: ==References====External links== On December 18, 2009, not only SPÖ and ÖVP were sitting at this table in Vienna, but also the head of free government from Carinthia, which was then driven home with this result. ==References====External links== [[Abg. Podgorschek: No!]] It could not have come to nationalization in this form without the decisions of the liberals in Carinthia in the holding, in the state government and also in the Carinthian Landtag. And as Klubobmann's deputy, Mr. Darmann, you agreed to this nationalization at the time. There will still be enough opportunities to read these protocols where there is a need to agree with Carinthia and the Freedom Party. [[Abg. Darmann: And I am looking forward to that, that we can make it clear with what information you have us with!]] If you had already had this wisdom of today, you could have prevented it at that time, because if Carinthians had not resigned the 12.5 percent share of the country that we had yet had, it would not have come to this nationalization. So, please, don't wash your hands in innocence! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Beautiful: put the government under Kuratel!]] And, Mr Darmann, I would also like to say something here when you talk about democracy: They were the leader of the FPÖ Group as a clubman in Carinthia, the liberal minority party, who was expelled 13 times in the country and prevented new elections. [[Abg. Darmann: Why? Tell me why! – To prevent the billions of arrests at ESM, nothing else!]] Everyone here can talk about democracy, but you have to learn democracy first! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e9321	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e9343	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Obernosterer, perhaps giving You're paying me a little attention. I have listened carefully to you now. I would like to tell you that we have sent you or your group the request, and we have informed you if you have any amendments or questions that we can put here, then we will be happy to do so. [[Abg. Darmann: Right!]] If you have a question that you would like to examine, you will either come out again and tell us, or, Mr President, there is also the possibility of making such amendments in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. [[Abg. Obernoster: Exactly! Bravo!]] Do this, don't just praise! And don't go out here and don't pretend we wouldn't have given you the opportunity to ask some questions that are at your heart! [[Abg. Darmann: Five days you have had! Five days!]] [[Congratulation with Greens and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wheeler: Defender of the Blues!]] Now to this largest financial scandal of the Second Republic – and that's what he is – one can say that right and right: To date, the taxpayers had to pay €6 billion. At the end of the day, there could be €15 billion, possibly more. What do we have to do with this financial scandal? – With a course and various acts of structural responsibility, which began already in the nineties – I will come to talk about it – and which have actually stopped until the end. In this respect, it is very important – and this is what we owe taxpayers – to clarify this structural responsibility of the actors and their political responsibility. The Griss report has done a lot of preliminary work, that is right, but it has not illuminated some questions either. It has indeed been limited in terms of time. On the other hand, he has not explained the extent to which the political actors have acted within the framework of their structural responsibility. All of this has remained open, and of course that will be extremely important issues to be clarified in the Committee of Inquiry. But let me once again mention some of the points of this structural inability in the order of time. All began with the invention of the Landesholding Act in Carinthia in 1991, when the FPÖ under Jörg Haider took this decision. [[Abg. Kogler: That's it!]] In this respect, this decision on the Land holding law has also been the one that has enabled the small regional bank to become Hypo Alpe-Adria, which it has eventually become. - That's the first point. The second point – and I am now making a big leap forward – concerns banking supervision. This is the second act of structural responsibility. On the basis of this Land holding law, the liability has been greatly extended. This, of course, raises the question – and this will have been done by many taxpayers in the meantime: How has it been possible that, under the supervision of FMA and OeNB, the balance sheet amount of this small regional bank has been blown up in a way that is similar to that sought? The responsible actors of the FMA and the OeNB should have been crying fire for a long time, but at the latest at the time of the committee of inquiry, if it had not been too late, as I mean. But because of the fact that, following the banking investigation committee in 2008, before participation capital of € 900 million has been transferred to the Hypo Alpe Adria, the financial market supervision and the OeNB of this bank have issued an opinion that has been declared “non-distressed” one must already ask what this banking supervision has done. By the way, the Griss report says that this was not at all the question. The question was: Is the bank “sound, ” that is, healthy, or is it “distressed, ” so sick? But "non-distressed", what is that? – This is a typical Austrian Swiss solution. We shall have to look closely at this question. The third act of structural responsibility concerns the so-called emergency nationalization without need. I can still remember when Mr Schelling, the Minister of Finance, came into office and said he could have imagined alternatives. The Griss report also says that it was not alternatives. But with this phase of emergency nationalization without need, a series of decisions has taken place that have always been sold under the name “Alternativelessness” where many things have actually been hidden under this cover. The Griss report also says that at least we would have been able to draw this conclusion from the Bayern over the table, because they were involved with €6 to 8 billion at that time. They bluffed. We were stupid enough and fell into this bluff. However, the crucial point in relation to alternative unemployment is that the Minister of Finance has recently filed a complaint for mistreatment. If the decision was alternative, why does he file a complaint for misdemeanor? He has to explain. I asked him this the last time, but a statement has not yet been made. In the meantime, he changed his opinion and said that, from his point of view, the need for nationalization was, without need, an alternative. Now, of course, one could ask further – fourth act of structural responsibility –: What, then, did the Republic, what did the Finance Ministers and the Federal Chancellor, under whose responsibility all this happened, do with this bank, which was then nationalized? – You didn’t know what to do. You delayed all of this. There have been a number of finance ministers – that was Mr Pröll, the Minister of Finance, that was Mrs Fekter, that was Mr Spindelegger. They all did not know: What are we gonna do with the bank? Should we send them into bankruptcy? Should we make an insolvency solution? Should we make a decommissioning bank? What are we gonna do? The fact is, however, that the decision has been postponed for years, until a task force has finally been set up, but it has also made decisions, so to speak, and I believe that it has also been carried out in structural responsibilities – that is, another act of structural responsibility – because it has not done what State of the Art is. State of the Art would have been to carry out risk-based assessments of options. This has been neglected, instead, these death-beat arguments have always come – we all know them – that would destabilise Austria's bank place, that would drive the Republic's interest burden into the infinite and the like. The issue of insolvency has never been seriously discussed so far, but it has actually been discussed in the silent chamber. There have already been a few opinions in the background – that is right – but in the end one will ask the question why the Taskforce recommendation has stated that we should not seek an insolvency solution, but we should make the solution that has actually been decided in the spring of last year. And the crucial question in this context is already: In whose interest have the Task Force actors acted? – In your own interest? In the foreign interest? – At any rate, not one: in the interest of taxpayers. That is why this is so important, and that is why this is a very important step that is being taken today by the decision to set up an investigation committee so that these various acts of structural responsibility of the actors are clarified in a complete and prompt manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e9442	Next, Mr. Ing. Lugar speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e9464	Mr President. High house! I met a friend the other day, and he asked me what we are negotiating at this special meeting today. I said once again the hypo, and he said he can't hear it again. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Many people do not have the opportunity to hear this issue anymore, and this also has a special reason to do so: because the government has dragged it away for so many years and we have tried over so many years to raise awareness here in Parliament. I can remember each of the 21 requests we make together – together! – as an opposition here, with the emphasis on ‘jointly’. There is now again a request to finally convene a committee of inquiry, and we cannot be present at this request. Although we agree, we believe that this is right and good, a hundred percent of us have not given us the opportunity to go along with it on this request, so that we, as Team Stronach, want this committee very well – just as we did then, together with the other opposition parties. Now Mr Rossmann is so generous and offers the ÖVP, which is the main suspect in this case, to participate in this request. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] You didn't allow us to do that! We have not even been allowed to agree to this, because of the need for a criminal action. This was a criminal action, and it was not beautified – unfortunately the Greens see it – because we were not good at discussing how such an investigation committee should work. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz]] We were just not good. We have – and you have to imagine that! – insists on something that the Greens also wanted. The Greens have entered the negotiations and have said that the first question must be made by a Member. As Members of Parliament control the government, a Member must also make the initial question. – That was the position of the Greens. The only difference was that we have persisted in this position until the end, and the Greens have not. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Abg. Brosz: He still interprets this as an insult!]] And since we did this until the end and actually wanted only one thing, we wanted more – we wanted more possibilities of clarification, we wanted more opportunities for transparency – and because we did not satisfy ourselves with what the government had voluntarily given us, that is why there has now been a criminal action. And not just that – not just that! –, there was even pressure. You have to imagine that! There's been pressure: If the Robert Lugar goes from the Stronach team to this committee, there is no cooperation. Can you imagine that? This pressure has been there! [[Call:Scandal]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gahr.]] And now you're wondering, Where's the problem? Where is the problem if there is someone in the committee who is simply different? We've been accused, we're not capable of packing. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] We have proved 21 times in a joint motion that we are very likely to be packed. We wanted to do more with these rules because we wanted more information, and we did not just take it as the greens and many others, or just the NEOS, who weren't even excited that you finally passed over them, and then just agreed to stay in the boat. [[Abg. Matznetter: You overestimate...!]] [[Abg. Stroll: Hey, not the story again...!]] And even now, it was true that the FPÖ had negotiated this with the Greens and then the NEOS were allowed to be there. [[Abg. Stroll: You weren't there at all!]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Stroll.]] – If you have always been talking about freedom of expression – especially among the Greens, freedom of expression is always spoken of – that means nothing but: As long as all of you think it's not a problem, and otherwise it's outlawed. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] But that this doesn't work, you know, since you virtually excluded FPÖ for over a decade. You've learned it now. You should also learn about the others: Exclusion doesn't do anything. It's all about the same thing to all of us: It's about education and nothing else. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] This means that if different people go to this committee and take different positions, the Greens will have to stand up to it. And I can only tell you one thing – Mrs. Nachbaur has already mentioned it today –: We need more politicians with backbone. I can tell you, we've got backbones, we're not bending. We shall not be prescribed by the Greens who have to go to committee. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] And I can tell you, I'm going to go to this committee and I'm going to tell you whether you're right or not.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e9624	Mr Hable came next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e9645	Mr President. High house! Estimated citizens! Mr Lugar, I do not think it is the right approach, it does not reflect the facts and the history of this committee of inquiry. You have already sounded out of this process much earlier, namely already in the constitutional action, wherever you were invited to participate. You already said no. Of course, you will be left to decide whether you are going here and providing for information and solutions. The invitation to participate has always passed, it still exists now. If you don't accept it, it's your responsibility. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lugar.]] Today, at least the Hypo-Research Committee has become a reality. We did it! This is also a good day for parliamentarianism today, a good day for the Austrian Parliament. At this point, I would like to take the opportunity to thank all those who have contributed to the fact that this committee of inquiry has finally become reality. I would like to thank the two other groups, both the Liberals and the Greens, for their constructive cooperation, now again in the preparation of the request for the Committee of Inquiry, especially Mr Podgorica and Mr Kogler. Thank you for that! I would also like to thank the 250 000 citizens who signed the hypo petition last year to ensure that: The Committee of Inquiry has also brought pressure to bear on the population, and they have contributed to the coming of this committee of inquiry. It's not for nothing to get involved. It's not for nothing! [[Congratulation with NEOS and Greens as well as the Abg. Podgorschek.]] We NEOS have embarked on renewing the Austrian political system – that is in our name, that is in our DNA – and therefore, of course, the hypo scandal has occupied us from the beginning, since our entry into the National Council. Why have we been so busy as a new, young political movement? – Because we are of the opinion and because we have come to believe that the hypo scandal is not the result of mere mismanagement in a regional bank, because we have come to believe that it is not the result of the 2008 financial crisis – perhaps all of this may be true, but it does not explain the loss of € 15 to 20 billion – but this loss at this level has only been possible by a long-term continuing criminal system, it has only been possible by a long-term system failure of Austrian authorities and – at the top of – the Austrian Federal Government. That's why we're so busy. This is not an exception – in the dimension already, but otherwise it is not an exception – because the Hypo Alpe-Adria is symptomatic for the Austrian political system. The Griss report has certainly already shown and confirmed a great deal of misbehavior – it is a solid statement of facts that we must also recognise – but the Griss report has, of course, not resolved questions, it cannot solve questions, namely three questions. First: The Griss report could not answer the question of why. – What was the motivation? Why was this nationalization made without need at all? Why has the bank been hanged by the Bavaria, and why has the Federal Government remained inactive after 2009? Secondly, again a question about the why that is unexplained: Why has it been watched when the bank was cleared out for years? This damage of € 15 to 20 billion has not happened overnight, it has not even happened from one year to the other, it has happened over years, and has been watched over years. Policy and supervisory authorities have been watching for years, and there is, of course, a systematic failure. It is not a flat-rate accusation, I would like to maintain it, because there have been critical reports in the authorities, and the question is what happened to these reports, because anyone must have shoved them. This question is also unexplained. Nor could the third and last question be answered by the Griss report, namely: Where's the money? Where have 15 to 20 billion euros disappeared? – That reminds me a little of the BAWAG scandal. In the BAWAG scandal billions of euros have also been found in damage, but it has never been clarified where this money came from. That's unexplained to this day. It is therefore also the task of the Committee of Inquiry, particularly from the point of view of NEOS, to make it possible to make it clear here and to ensure that these questions are answered so that the taxpayer, the taxpayer, is relieved as much as possible. Summary: It will not always be nice what this Committee of Inquiry will bring to light, but it is necessary: It is necessary for a self-cleaning process of politics. We NEOS as a young political movement are looking forward here to our contribution to this self-cleaning, to this start. Ten. This is service to our country, service to the citizens, and we will make our contribution here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e9729	Mr Hable, I assume that in your findings on which you referred to the head of the Federal Government, you referred only to the accusation of system failure at the head of the Federal Government and, of course, not the accusation of criminal machinations. Can I get out of it? [[Abg. Hable: You may!]] Thank you. [[Abg. Kogler:... always me!]] [[Abg. Kickl: This is a criminal offence!]] Next, Mr Magistrate. Haider on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e9788	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! A brief comment on Mr Lugar's comments: Firstly, it is a desire and not a request, it is also brought in and not voted, but apart from that, my colleague, since Friday this desire has existed, and since Friday you would have had the opportunity to bring yourself in. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lugar]] [[Abg. Lugar: You have rejected it, so it looks!]] You didn't do it, you didn't want to change. So if you think you can blame us now, then you have to play the ball – that is the same one that our colleague Rossmann played to the colleague Obernosterer – back to you. You haven't reported since Friday. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Kogler.]] - But back to the urgent request. 30 questions have been asked by the Liberal Group to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, and I believe that this has not yet been properly honoured. That is why I will now appreciate what the Federal Chancellor has given of himself in answer to these 30 questions. In the first instance, it should be pre-sented: He did not answer 16 questions at all. Let's take a look at what he did with the remaining 14. It also shows a deep view that he has long left the session. In fact, he's not interested in the whole thing: He doesn't care about the whole subject, he doesn't even care about all his work anymore – obviously he expects the name tag to be replaced soon at his office. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Podgorica]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] He answered questions 1 to 4. This is about what decisions he or the Federal Chancellor's Office made in connection with the nationalization of the hypo, who were the actors and what decisions he was personally involved in. – His answer was, each individual measure has been taken in agreement with him, with the Federal Chancellor. That's enough. If you look at the Griss report, the Griss Commission makes it clear that the cumulative failure of all parties – Mr Podgorschek spoke of the ‘multi-organ failure of the state’ – all the decision-makers involved – from the political decision-makers to the officials involved to the official supervisory authorities – that this multi-organ failure is due to the fact that the Austrian taxpayer still has to bear between €10 and €14 billion for this financial disaster by 2025. This finding of the Griss report has answered the Chancellor with the answer that any measure has been taken in agreement with him. - Thank you for that. He answered questions 5 and 6 with No. – But interesting is also when you look at... – Now he is there! [[Federal Chancellor Faymann enters the meeting room and takes place on the government bank.]] Greeting God, Federal Chancellor! I am pleased that you will be able to take part in the meeting again. Question 6 read as follows: “Have you taken any influence on the then well-founded assessment of the OeNB that the HBint” – that is, the hypo – “as ‘not distressed’ qualified, in any form”? He answered this question with No. – It is interesting to note once again that there are only two types of assessment: Either a bank is “sound”, that is, healthy, or it is “distressed, ” that is, ill. If the Oesterreichische Nationalbank considered the bank to be “not distressed” at the time, this was a non-judgment, a discretion assessment, which hopefully – or quite certainly, because I am also a member of the Committee of Inquiry – which will certainly be a subject in the Committee of Inquiry. Questions 7 to 12 have not been answered again by the Federal Chancellor, but these were very interesting questions, namely whether in December 2009 he was aware that, as the Griss report writes, there was no basis for information on the decision of nationalization, whether he had given the report of the FIMBAG of 22. In July 2009, when a dramatic increase in the need for value adjustment was mentioned, whether he had even noted that the European Commission did not consider the hypo to be “sound” in May 2009, and the OeNB, too, finally – a year too late – has come to the conclusion that it would consider the bank to be ‘distressed’. – No answer from our Federal Chancellor to all these questions. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And so, in this tenor, the answer to this question continues. I am not surprised that the Commission is coming to this devastating judgment, even if it is confirmed by the Federal Chancellor here by this panel. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In the parliamentary committee of inquiry, we now have the opportunity to keep the damage to taxpayers as low as possible. The taxpayer expects results from us. The Austrians want to know how it goes on, they want to know what it will cost us, and above all what is being done to prevent such a financial disaster, as the four apocalyptic riders of the Austrian hypo-desaster Pröll, Fekter, Spindelegger and Faymann have almost prevented us in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e9861	The next speaker is Mr Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e9883	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that all possible conclusions have already been drawn from the Committee of Inquiry, who are both guilty and responsible, although the Committee has not even begun, is symptomatic of this debate and of dealing with the Committee of Inquiry. At the middle of the year there were indications from colleagues Podgorschek and Kogler that there would be no pre-conceptions. [[Abg. Podgorschek: Yes did I do it?- Oh, my God!]] I therefore ask you politely that you also do appropriate information in your own ranks, because the pre-conceptions that have come from your political groups today are not very few. We will not participate in the SPÖ, we will not enter this investigation committee with the prejudice, we already know what is going on – for if we already know what is going to happen, we will save ourselves from the investigation committee. [[Abg. Kickl: That means I don’t hear “Haider ” from your mouth anymore?- Oh, my God!]] I can tell you how we will enter this committee of inquiry, which is unbiased. We mainly want to take a picture because of the file situation and, secondly, because of the statements about what has gone down there. We will try to answer the investigation commission formulated by the opposition, which I do not think is absolutely successful – my God, more than these opposition parties do not hold to quality, is already in order – to work out, will try to answer the 52 questions that are being asked there. But I say to you personally: What we will pay attention to are the following questions: How does the Republic work? Has there been any mistakes from individual decision-makers? In what form have these mistakes been? But the essential question for my group will be: How do the institutions work in the Republic, how do offices and authorities work? Decide laws is one thing. To see how the law works, how the authority we have set up by law works in practice, whether there are structural problems, is the other. Further clarification should be made: Do we need to work on improving our laws? Do we need to make reforms in the field of supervision or in the field of ministries? Does the BWG function, or do we need to make improvements? My group will focus on this. We will try to do this according to best knowledge and conscience. I hope you understand that we do not participate in pre-conceptions here. There's already enough of that one. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e9932	Next speaker: Mr Dipl.-Ing. Straster. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e9954	Mr President. Appreciate Mr. Federal Chancellor! Estimated Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== In March 2014, the so-called Griss Commission was set up by then Minister of Finance Michael Spindelegger. At that time, this was a courageous step, but it was accompanied by a skeptical accompanying concert. Nevertheless, this investigation is the first building block to allow a thorough investigation of the events surrounding the Hypo Alpe-Adria. Now, about a year later, this report is an important basis for the upcoming Committee of Inquiry. I see it as a very positive signal that both the Griss report and the Examining Committee are beginning to analyse in Carinthia, because everything started there. In order to improve our political culture, I am already looking for careful handling of the rules, sources and also people. The new U Committee law gives us new opportunities to do this: to deal with the existing legal situation carefully, to deal with information and sources carefully and to deal with the personality rights of those invited to the Investigation Committee. We are thus strengthening democracy and making the U Committee an important and serious means of parliamentary control. This investigation was carried out by: The Committee will be the test of the new U-committee law, and the opposition parties will be able to demonstrate that they can deal responsibly with the new instrument. I am convinced that we will receive further information from the people who will expand the image of the Griss Commission and also the image in the public. Our common goal must be to work out a proper procedure, and above all to draw our lessons from it so that we can no longer experience such misdevelopments in Austria. We advocate strong and independent banking, strong control bodies and less political influence. I would like to conclude by quoting Mr Podgorschek from an APA issue of 9. January 2015, in which he says that one “has nothing to give to one or another of the political leaders. ” Mr. Podgorschek! Thank you for this opinion. It is in line with Mrs. Griss's appeal to allow the political hack to be sidelined in dealing with the events. I wish that we take this responsibility very seriously and that the government parties cooperate with the opposition so that the responsibilities are clarified so that we can minimize the damage and so that we can learn for the future. We are really guilty of people in our Republic. In this sense: Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e10009	The next item is Mrs Dr. Moser's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e10030	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Strasser of the ÖVP and fellow Members of the SPÖ, why do we not bring this desire to set up a committee of inquiry to clarify the processes surrounding the Hypo Alpe-Adria together? You have now clearly listed in a row what you are interested in, that it is being clarified, that everything is to be clarified, where we are to pull together at one strand everywhere. Yes I really wonder quite simply, just like every viewer and every viewer in front of the TV: Why don't we do this together? That's really weird! [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] We have fought hard in the past – in common, I say clearly now – that research committees have been set up by a majority of them. It was then possible to clarify together. It was up to you, your majority rights, that every time it's become critical, the investigation committee was turned off. Now we have the paradoxical case that we can use minority law to set up an investigation committee, that it can now be used without a majority, and that everyone wants it, only: Although everyone wants him, it only demands the minority! Now the minority decision can also be used to invite people to develop the programme, so to speak, but I am curious whether the others will agree or whether it will really only remain in minority law. Because it's strange already: Every Austrian, every taxpayer, you, Mr Bundeskanzler, as well as you, Mr State Secretary, have the right to know exactly why the total amount of €15 to 20 billion was going down the Adriatic, I say now, namely at Hypo Alpe-Adria. I've calculated it once: This is a yacht chain from Rijeka to Dubrovnik, where you can walk dry feet down to the billions. [[Abg. Rädler: Haider-Friends!]] Only as a vivid picture! They all have a right to get information about how it got so far. That is why there is now this possibility, and I am grateful for it. Only: I do not understand today – I repeat – why we are not all in favour of it, where you are rightfully saying that you want to be informed, and where the colleague Greiner has kindly agreed that we have a suitable proposal that we comply with Article 53 of the Constitution. – Yes, thank you, we're doing it in a real way. But, ladies and gentlemen, exciting for me is also another question: How do you, in principle, keep it with Parliament's control tasks? What is it like with the necessary permanent control by the Court of Auditors? When it comes to finding sufficient dates to discuss the work of the Court of Auditors here and the recommendations, if they are useful – and most of them – to implement them? Mr Bundeskanzler, you told us before the summer that you will seriously discuss the 599 reform proposals of the Court of Auditors in order to implement state reforms. How are you doing with that? This is a proposal for a control of the financial deficits in this Republic. - Nothing happened! At least I have not heard anything about what the Court of Auditors had proposed as the institution of the House. Next Gretchen question: How do you keep it with legal changes that will prevent such cases as the Hypo Alpe-Adria disaster in the future? I have not had a single parliamentary decision in memory since the occurrence of this scandal – and I have inquired of four expert colleagues – which is taking precautions that such a thing does not repeat. Where is the liability scheme for the countries? Where is the ban on speculation for the countries? Where, then, are we in the transparency of the double accounting of the national budgets? All the demands of the Court of Auditors! - Nothing happened! [[Congratulations on the Greens and Members of the NEOS.]] We are still dancing in this Parliament, in view of the desire to set up an investigation committee, after the pipe of various national leaders! [[Abg. Podgorschek: Right!]] Here we have to bathe out the disaster of a head of state – not only his alone, there were also some other participants. The next Gretchen question: What about a reform of financial market supervision? How do you keep it with a reform of the occupation of the National Bank management posts, which are paid royally-materially? [[New call for tender of the Abg. Podgorschek.]] Mr Bundeskanzler, in your place, I would, in the face of the honors, be angry three times about what miserable achievements performance that is doing. We pay practically a multiple of these fees now in the form of this hypo alpe-Adria debt. Nothing happened, no change! I now hear from colleagues that, as a result of this Committee of Inquiry, reforms are to be made. I'll tell you: We were so far at the last committee of inquiry before the first meeting that we decided in Parliament to adopt the Media Transparency Act, as the first consequence of the abuses of the permanent advertisements. That was at a time when it was not yet minority law. The majority was able to learn in a certain sector. That's what I wish for at Hypo Alpe-Adria too! Therefore: Luckily for this new committee of inquiry with the new rules! What I would like to stress is: We have always seen to it that the previous committees of inquiry are being properly informed, we have produced reports which you have not carried out as a majority. In the future, the minority will be sufficient, and the minority will make much progress in this Republic! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e10138	Mr Scherak. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e10160	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr. State Secretary! I believe that on this day, which is really a cause for joy, because we can finally use this committee of inquiry, we should look again at how the whole thing has come about. Mr Hable has already referred to it, but I think it is very essential to thank once again all those citizens who have created so much pressure from the public, because without the petitions that have been made, without the pressure of the road, without projects such as Hypotopia and the like, this investigation committee would not have come about! [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Moser.]] I believe that in the case of the Hypo Alpe-Adria, the public has clearly shown that it is enough with tactics of concealment that it is enough with the lack of reconnaissance that happens in Austria again and again! The public finally wants to know who is responsible for such scandals – and the hypo is the largest financial scandal in the Second Republic! She wants to know who is responsible for the fact that, in a already difficult budgetary situation, we will once again have up to €20 billion less. Again: The public wants to know! And the public has clearly shown that – if you give it the opportunity and the means – they also express this will, for example, about petitions. She has shown that she is speaking accordingly! It is an essential part of our parliamentary democracy that we create these opportunities, as we have clearly seen that this leads to good results! At last, we have the opportunity to clarify all the transactions relating to the hypo with the most important control instrument. We finally have the opportunity, as a minority in the Committee, to request the relevant files, to load the relevant information persons, and thus we have the opportunity to really clarify them. This is exactly what we have heard many times today, which has not worked for other committees of inquiry, because at the end of the day the majority has always decided. I cannot understand Mrs Greiner's statement that we are making any pre-conceptions in advance! We NEOS have only shown a list of 200 persons. This list does not even contain witnesses, but it is information. That's not an accused person, it's about people who are supposed to give information about what happened. And we have also consciously blackened the names of all those who are not in the public interest, so that not even the identities of these people are published. But that the former Finance Ministers will declare before this Hypo-Research Committee, was also clear before! That former State Secretary must declare, and, and, Pretty clear! That means that these are not pre-condemnifications – we have only said clearly who should provide information! We are not in a criminal trial, and even if we were, that would be only witnesses, and they are not accused, but people who should give information so that they can be informed. I think we also have other important innovations in the new Rules of Procedure. We know – and this is something very essential – that, when disputes arise, we can go to the Constitutional Court. This is so important, therefore, because it does not, at the end, lead to a political majority decision, but to a legally sound decision on any disputes. In addition, we will be using the new procedure – and I think that is very, very important! – widen the opportunities to protect the personal rights of persons providing information. Mrs Greiner, I can assure you that this is a major concern for us. In fact, we have regulated this in such a way that there is now a trial judge and a trial attorney, and thus explicitly two people take care to ensure that the personal rights of individuals are respected. I also believe that the clear rules in the Rules of Procedure – as they have been mentioned more often today – will very likely lead to the fact that there is no misuse of the instrument's investigative committee. However, I still believe that we must be very careful that the central issue in connection with the U Committee, namely the issue of education, remains at the centre. How you could hear and read in the last few days, a few side shows are already being opened. An example would be the question of the partitions. Fortunately, this question has already been resolved in the presidency. Finally, it is a fact that, first of all, there was nothing to do with these visual protection walls, since the spectacle had shifted to the place in front of Parliament, and secondly, and that the association of Parliament's editors has said quite correctly, people who are not in the public interest should not be taken away anyway. I don't need a wall of separation, that's something that has been clarified by media law for a long time. So here, quite briefly, before we introduced this desire, we tried to sidetrack from what is the essential part of this whole thing, namely the Enlightenment: the Enlightenment of the Second Republic's largest financial scandal, a complete Enlightenment! And we need this reconnaissance so that such things do not happen in the future! Mrs Moser rightly said: The most important thing is that after the Enlightenment, we also draw the corresponding consequences and create the legal changes so that something like this can no longer happen in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e10272	Mr Angerer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e10293	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Estimated government members! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Of course, I was aware that today the government parties will again be blamed, especially the Carinthians, because of the country's liability. That is why I have once again looked at this in detail in the Griss report. I would like to begin by replicate the statements made by Mr Klubobmann of the SPÖ. Mr Schieder said that the captain of a ship, a chief, has at least one responsibility. I agree with that – there was a joint responsibility in Carinthia, but not only with one head of state, but with several! That is how I see it at the federal level, and I am sorry to say, Mr Bundeskanzler, that you have at least maximized the damage to the Republic. Mrs. Tamandl of the ÖVP meant that it was a masterpiece to sell the hypo and maintain the liability. Then I have to say that in the context of nationalization it was a masterpiece that you still have to ask Bavaria what you can do with the bank if you own 100 percent of the bank. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] So what happened! That is why a brief comment on the facts from the long version of the Griss report: A hundred years ago, the mortgage banks were founded throughout Austria, so this is not a specific topic in Carinthia, and a hundred years ago the countries took over the 100% liability for their mortgage. Until 2004, there was no need to decide for countries to assume liability, but the countries automatically held liability for the banks. Around the year 2000, there were seven mortgage banks and 27 savings banks in Austria, for which liability, state liability, existed. This is the system, and I have to tell you – that has already been mentioned today – that: ==References== In April 2004, the Kärntner Landesholding Act was adopted, which laid down the expiry of these liabilities by 2007. In the meantime, everyone has accepted it. All parties – SPÖ, ÖVP, FPÖ and Green – have agreed. We will be responsible in this committee of inquiry, not only as a liberal, but also as a Carinthian. I am very interested in – and it should be up to you all – to clarify this, but please, from the beginning of history to the end. [[President Hofer gives the bell sign]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e10348	Mrs Magnette has now come to speak. Meinl-Risinger. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e10369	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Dear Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Scherak has actually taken this away from me, and today I have also posted it on Facebook: My signature, which I have done under this desire. It has been a great feeling to consider how much struggle there has been here in the house, but also outside that there is really this investigation committee. I dedicate this signature to the more than 160,000 signers of the various petitions, and I dedicate it to them – and thank you for mentioning it, I wanted to mention it too – especially the young students of TU who made this hypotopia project, which was also a very essential, public service thrust that has made sure that there is this reconnaissance now. I dedicate my signature to you, the students! [[Congratulations with the NEOS and MEPs of the Greens.]] In one of my first speeches on the subject of Hypo Alpe-Adria, I have noted that it is a bit disturbing to hear the speeches of the various political groups here – I listened exactly to them at that time as well today – because it is actually a matter of assigning the blame to each other. Mr Obernosterer also pointed out this. You have a little feeling, it's about, ashamed, maybe a little ashamed – I hope so! – stand here, sometimes speaking on behalf of the Group, but to say: You over there, you're also guilty, you're even more guilty or you're a little less guilty. - Anyway. This is a bit like throwing each other with dirt and hoping that at least something will stick somewhere. In any case, it will stick to something. There has long been something attached to the entire Austrian political system, but above all to the confidence that citizens have in this House and in politics as a whole. This is, in my view, the greatest tragedy of this scandal, in addition to the insane financial disaster: this enormous, this immense loss of confidence of the population in politics. This is very, very disturbing. All the more important is this Committee of Inquiry, which will clarify political responsibility, a responsibility which has been discussed many times, but which no one has really perceived. I've already said: Responsibility is not just in the sense that anyone resigns to understand. Many political actors are no longer in politics, but many are still in politics. There and there one will still have to assume the responsibility and perhaps also have to go. But it's mainly about the feeling. No one turns himself and says: Okay, we didn't know better back then, but that went badly. Emergency nationalization was not an emergency nationalization. – It may not be relevant to criminal law, it may not be politically relevant either, because there is no way to withdraw, but at least one excuse, at least some word would be very important and appropriate. Vice chancellor Spindelegger, Mitterlehner – Sorry! –, said in a discussion, I think it was in the programme “In the Center”, that is not a question of individual guilt. I share his statement to some degree. We will see, there and there there will also be an individual debt, but there is also a system failure. This is also reflected in the report of the Griss Commission. The Hypo Alpe-Adria is a symbol of a system, and – that is not what Mr Vice-Chancellor said, but I say it, and the opposition parties point out – the two government parties have created this system in which it was possible that something like the Hypo Alpe-Adria would happen. The clubwoman of the Stronach team has pointed out the ‘NZZ’ article from the beginning of the year, which I would also like to point out, which says more than clearly, how much this system is happening and how important it is to change this political system in Austria. Because we know: The Hypo Alpe-Adria is not only the symbol of the failure of this system, it will also become a turning point of this system – and that I am prophesying. We will read in ten, perhaps in three years, but in ten years' time in the history books: At that time, that was the last flashing of the red-black coalition – then the Hypo Alpe-Adria came, then the population stopped, then there was a reconnaissance and a change of this system. The population will no longer forget that, and red and black will no longer have a majority, and that will be the beginning of the Third Republic, as the “NZZ” demands; therefore, I believe, it will be done. [[Abg. Kickl: Can you say this again: Third Republic?]] - Symbolic. That's a quote. [[Abg. Arbitrator: A very muti- ges citation!]] [[Further calls.]] I quote the ‘NZZ’. [[Abg. Arbitrator: Citing bad is also a fool!]] The tragedy is the price, and this price is far too high. The price that taxpayers, the young people who are being removed from the money for education, research and development, will have to pay for the future for selecting this system, will definitely be too high. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Arbitrary]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e10455	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. According to § 33 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure I agree with the request 1/US to set up an investigative committee to examine political responsibility for the proceedings concerning the Hypo Group Alpe-Adria (Hypo Examining Committee) to the Rules of Procedure Committee. [[14:48:23]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2015-01-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00057_d7e10494	I am still announcing that self-employed applications 853/A(E) and 854/A(E) were tabled at today's meeting. Questions 3412/J to 3474/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations will be convened at 2.49 p.m., which is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
