ParlaMint-AT_2015-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00110_d7e370	I'll open the 110. Meeting of the National Council. Deputies of Ecker, Katzian, Weninger, Wimmer, Höfinger, Jank, Mag are reported as prevented. Zakostelsky, Ing. Hackl, port sticker, MA, Mag. Hauser, ing. Höbart, Kickl, Mag. Brunner, Köchl and Dr. Pirklhuber. [[22:36:24]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2015-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00110_d7e401	As regards the negotiated items and their allocation, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[22:36:37]] Final address of the President
ParlaMint-AT_2015-12-10-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00110_d7e638	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen. We reached the end of the last plenary session this year. Despite an advanced hour, I would like to take the opportunity to say thank you. Behind us is a particularly difficult year, which will be remembered in our minds and also in the history books. When we started a special meeting on the occasion of the terrorist attacks on Charlie Hebdo this year, no one could imagine what terrible terrorist attacks would follow, and only two weeks ago in Parliament did we think of the many victims. We also discussed this in the House today. The IS terror, the war in Syria, the great movements of refugees have moved us all in Austria and in Europe and faced all the biggest challenges. And there will be more to follow. But we also look back at a really very busy year beyond these events of undoubtedly historical dimension here in the House. Today, we have adopted 113 legislative decisions, including important reforms that will have a very concrete and very positive impact on the everyday life of people and our society. I would like to thank you, ladies and gentlemen, but also your employees and those of the parliamentary clubs. I would also like to thank the members of the Presidential Conference – we have always maintained a very cooperative and constructive cooperation this year – especially the Second President Karlheinz Kopf and the Third President Norbert Hofer. Finally, I would like to thank the Parliamentary Director Harald Dossi, his two alternates and all the staff of the Parliamentary Directorate, without whose professional and committed commitment our work would not have been possible. Thank you very much. [[General condolences.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you and your families a beautiful Christmas, relaxing holidays and a good, healthy and fulfilled New Year. The next meeting of the National Council, held on Wednesday, 27 May. January 2016, at 9 a.m., will be convened in writing. This meeting is closed.
