ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e2147	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Dear Members of the Federal Government! I'll open the 98. Meeting of the National Council and wish you a nice good morning. Deputies Gahr, Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein, Ing. Hackl, Podgorica, Steger, Julian Schmid and Doppler. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e2175	Federal Chancellor Werner Faymann is represented by Vice Chancellor Dr. Reinhold Mitterlehner. We wish you better soon! The Federal Chancellor's Office for the Representation of Members of the Federal Government who are present in another Member State of the European Union has also made the following statement for this meeting: The Federal Minister for Art and Culture, Constitution and Media Dr. Josef Ostermayer is represented by the Federal Minister for Education and Women Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek. [[09:08:49]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e2226	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[09:08:59]] Request for a brief debate on the response to the question 5832/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e2326	Before entering the agenda, I would like to say that, according to § 92 of the Rules of Procedure, there is a desire to hold a brief debate on the reply to Question No 6191/J by Mr Steinbichler, Mr Steinbichler, Mr Steinbichler, Mr Steinbichler, Mr Steinbicler, Mr Steinbicler, Mr Steinbicler, Mr Steinbichler, Mr Steinbichler, Mr Steinbichler, Mr Steinbicler, Mr Steinbichler, Mr Steinbichler, Mr Steinbichler, Mr Steinbichler, Mr Steinbichler, Mr Emergency, Mr Emergency, Minister for Agriculture, the Environment and Water Management. This brief debate takes place in accordance with § 57a para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure after completion of the agenda, but not later than 15 a.m. I also announce that the session will be held today from ORF 2 to 1 p.m. and from ORF III in full length. Apart from the 24-hour lead-out period
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e2353	In order to be able to negotiate items 11 to 13 of the agenda, it is in accordance with § 44 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure required to waive the 24-hour deadline for the submission of the Committee's reports. Points 11 to 13 are reports by the Immunities Committee, namely on the request of the National Criminal Court Vienna for approval of the official persecution of the Deputies to the National Council of Klubobmann Heinz-Christian Strache, 847 of the Supplements, on the request of the Procuratorate of Vienna Neustadt for approval of the official persecution of the deputies to the National Council of Ing. Christian Höbart, 848 of the Supplements, as well as the request of the Public Prosecutor's Office in Vienna concerning the authorisation to prosecute Dr. Karl Steinhauser, 849 of the Supplements. I would ask the ladies and gentlemen to give their agreement to the withdrawal from the time-limit for these committee reports. – This is unanimously accepted, even with the required two-thirds majority. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e2389	It is proposed that the debate on points 2 and 3, 5 to 7 and 9 and 10 of the agenda should be summarized. Is there any objection? - That's not the case. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e2415	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 7.5 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP per 101, FPÖ 94, Green 79 as well as NEOS and STRONACH per 41 minutes. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall be the speaking time of those Members who do not belong to a club for the entire agenda within the framework of this Decision per 21 minutes. In addition, the speaking time of Members who do not belong to a club is limited to 5 minutes per debate. We shall now proceed to the vote on the speaking time just presented. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[09:10:42]] 1. Point First reading: Federal Law on the Approval of the Federal Estimate for the Year 2016 (Federal Finance Act 2016 – BFG 2016) together with investments (820 d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e2462	So we come to the 1st. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. Mr Klubobmann Mag is the first to speak. Arbitrator. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e2489	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Good morning! Yesterday, the Minister of Finance gave his budget speech, which was often received in the past, namely, how many minutes, how much applause. Fortunately, the journalistic reception has now focussed more on the content – but the Finance Minister himself has made the comparison with football, a world that many of us are not strange, but very familiar. Today I would like to make the comparison with a hike to a mountain or a mountain tour, because the conditions for the right path to the future are similar to those for a hike or mountain tour. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Auer]] [[Abg. Kickl: The next dizzy analogy!]] You need a suitable... [[Abg. Kickl: oxygen for the clubman!]] – Look, the difference is, when we go to a mountain, then we go up ourselves, with you, if you pull the partyman onto the mountain, he attached to the rope and pulled up, as you see in the photo well. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] That's the difference. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the SPÖ as well as with representatives of the ÖVP.]] But for this we are not in the oxygen tent, but today simply here. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Testifies to intelligence when you take a rope along the mountain! ... crash!]] Where your clubman is, this question may be answered in the course of the day. [[towards the empty square of Klubobmann street]] But maybe you can still take me a short while. They pay attention to the need for appropriate equipment. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] The equipment in Austria is a strong social system. The second is that you need a good preparation for a tour, that is the education system. During the tour you also have to pay attention to the external influences like the weather, to the weather forecast, how to properly interpret the weather, and it is also about how to carefully plan the right route. The policy is to identify future issues and challenges, to find the right answers and to launch the measures that are necessary. It is always about working in both areas today to adjust to what is going to happen tomorrow, to happen and to be able to happen. Taking responsibility and having confidence is said to be at the mountain. In a joint ropeship it is important to take responsibility for each other, in politics it is a prerequisite for good governance. [[Abg. Kickl: “silence ” is a good word!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Moser.]] Finally, it also says to me that you should not leave anyone behind on the mountain or in society, but the rule is that you never leave anyone behind. [[Abg. Kickl: You really don't know yourself!]] Austria has solid foundations for the successful path to the future. We have a reliable, good social system, we have a sustainable training system to envy us many companies and other states. We have an innovative power of Austrian companies, and we have a good economic location. But challenges mean not only keeping the status quo, but also enabling social and economic development. Of course, the implementation of this social and economic development is also illustrated in the 2016 budget. The main focus of the 2016 budget is tax reform, tax relief, the more in the exchange of employees and wage taxpayers in Austria. This creates justice through more than €5 billion of relief and a just counter-financing that is solid and socially just. This stimulates consumption, people have more to live. 6.4 million Austrians will benefit from and will benefit from 1. January 2016 have more in stock exchange. This also creates impetus for the economy and economic growth. Increased purchasing power invigorates the Austrian economy, tax reform invigorates the economy, the WIFO autumn forecast is now also giving rise to this, as WIFO itself says in its forecast that tax reform will set a significant economic impulse for the next year. But that also means that we find the important growth and innovation impulses in the budget: €300 million for broadband expansion, the increase in the research premium from 10 per cent to 12 per cent, the funding for SMEs with €200 million, the funded housing building, the €250 million for the labour market, i.e. older workers, or to keep them in the work process, the education that is additional budgeted for daily school care €160 million, or also the increase of the care allowance, the increase of the funds in the care sector and for the care fund, as well as the project decided here some time ago. Working on the future of Austria also means thinking about new challenges and reflecting on them. The objective of Austrian policy must be: We want to remain at the top of Europe, at the top of the world! Industry 4.0 is one of these challenges, digitization and also the question of how in the future a production and industrial location in this country can best be maintained, because research, training and production must be in one hand so that they can benefit from each other optimally. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz]] Austria is above the industrial section of Europe. But we want to continue to grow in this area. Return to my example of the mountain tour: A run-down route also means that you keep going, that you are calm in the face of dangers – well quiet, that's something for you once! – to keep in mind the opportunities to get out of the way and always have the goal of coming to the summit. [[Abg. Kickl: He has no idea!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Höbart]] I think Austria's budget is taking a good course. But it is also so, and this must also be said that the budget has two areas: once the accountant, where people simply see whether expenditure and revenue are in a reasonable balance. However, there is also a general economic view of a budget, namely that investment today means the value added of tomorrow. I am glad that this budget also contains this future investment, because that means that value added for tomorrow is also possible. If Mr Kickl would like to continue to excite himself: I just want to stress that we're all here again. Your party and clubman should still be looking for the oxygen comparison, so that he can show up here with us. [[Abg. Kickl: Berg Heil! Mr. Klubobmann! Berg Heil!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e2669	Mr Klubobmann's next speech is Dr. Lopatka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e2690	Bergkamerd Kickl: Berg Heil! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! [[Call:Mountain free]] Mountain free for the Socialist Group! Now I've welcomed everyone. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! The direction is right. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] Say hello to God, Mr Krainer, if you need it, I do not find it difficult. [[Rejoicing and condolences with representatives of ÖVP and FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we must ensure that the pace is right. The Minister of Finance presented the 2016 budget yesterday. Not everything – he addressed it quite directly – is where he likes it as Minister of Finance, but the way is right. Thanks to the five-billion relief – and this is a large discharge that is taken into account in the budget – there is on average a relief of € 1,000 for the taxpayers. I'm glad we can say this today. At the same time, those who closely monitor our budgetary situation have succeeded in assuming that the financial situation remains stable. All three rating agencies – Moody’s, Fitch and Standard & Poor’s – rely on Austria for 2016 to be stable. What do we need? – This stability, when it comes to finance, but also the willingness to reform. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler]] Our goal is to bring Austria back to where it was seen by German media in 2005. I did this once again, I also had it here in the house in 2005 with less unemployed, more economic growth, better mood. [[the speaker shows the copy of a newspaper article]] “Why Austria is at the forefront”. – That is our goal: to get back where we were in 2005, in relation to the other countries in Europe. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I have already said that the crucial point is not to lose speed here. The government debt ratio has fallen slightly for the first time since 2013, but it is still very high at 85.1 percent. We have also managed to achieve the structural zero deficit for the third time, but this is still no reason to think about it in any way, that we can rest on it. [[Abg. Singer: That's stupid!]] The opposite is the case. We must do everything we can to maintain our excellent social system, our excellent health system and also the pension system. If we want future generations to find such a network that characterizes Austria, then we must be ready for reforms! I've already said it: The direction that the government has given itself here is right. The decisive thing is that it must also be the pace, because we – the Minister of Finance has recorded this yesterday – have not a problem with revenue, but we have a problem on the expenditure side. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] Behind me is the Minister of Social Affairs, who knows these figures. We already have a cost development in the pension area before the birth-like vintages in the coming years, decades to reach the retirement age. From 2000 to 2015, pension expenditure increased from 10 billion to more than 20 billion euros. We are currently spending 9.15 billion on officials and more than € 11 billion for other pensioners from the budget. And the increase in this area, which is seen by the BMF, but also by the Pension Insurance Institute, is up to 2019 at more than €4 billion. This is not about intervening in existing pensions, but about doing everything to secure future pensions, and we must make it possible to bring the actual retirement age closer to the legal one. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I say this with regard to the 29th century. February 2016, where we have to take very concrete steps here, responsibilities towards the next generations, towards our children and children, so that they also have the opportunity to find such a pension system that marks Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rossmann]] We do not speak badly of the system, but we see the need for a great deal of reform. That is what the Federal Government and we here need to create together, despite the difficult conditions and despite the tax reform. No longer to have €5 billion on the revenue side, because the money remains with taxpayers and taxpayers, is not a simple starting point in which the Minister of Finance had to draw up this budget. I ask the opposition to see that, too, because it has always been called for discharge, and now we have it. I am eager to see how the speakers of the opposition parties will judge this. How the experts assessed this tax reform, we heard when we presented it. The German economy Peter Bofinger mentioned that the “positive, courageous and in the EU comparison is exemplary”. Marcel Fratzscher, President of the German Institute for Economic Research, spoke of a “great and courageous reform”. The families also benefit. The doubling of the child allowance to €440 is quite a performance you should talk about. I am pleased – we have a problem on the labour market, we know – that the economic research institute assumes that we will have more 20 000 employees through the tax reform, and WIFO is talking about an economic growth potential of 0.5 percent. In other words, this relief, which comes to the families in the middle class, is a very positive step in the right direction. - That's the one step. The other step is: We also need to do something for entrepreneurs. From 2015, we will have this additional wage reduction here in stages, in the order of 1.3 billion €. This must work for the companies. That is what we owe to those who actually secure jobs, and that is what businessmen are doing. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Klug.]] Because there was an intermediate call: Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, everyone who finds a job in the private sector prefers me to be one we have to take up in the public service, I tell you that too. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Federal Minister Klug: But you must say that to everyone!]] I come to the conclusion: Just as we have successfully launched this tax reform, we must also successfully implement the necessary reforms. We are here, with great conviction, to bring Austria back to the top.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e2826	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Haider. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e2847	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Good improvement to the Federal Chancellor! Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. But above all also: Ladies and gentlemen, tax payers on the gallery and in front of the televisions! Yesterday, the Minister of Finance gave his first budget speech. She was nailed with flowery comparisons, especially from football. He wanted to lead Austria from the Regional League East into the Champions League, he meant. That he will succeed in this budget has not only doubts about the opposition, but also well-known experts. A newspaper called yesterday, for example: ‘Blind spots in Schelling’s budget. – That is, I think, quite noblely expressed. It could also be said that this budget has been created in the blind flight. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The reason for this is the totally inestimable cost of the migration storm, which has not been lost since the summer of this year. Not even the budget service of this House, which is now really competent, has managed to achieve a cost estimate. In view of the complete opening of the border, I consider this to be quite understandable and comprehensible. After all, this federal government does not know how many people have been through Austria in the last few months and how many people intend to stay at all. Let's just look at the numbers: Disbursements of €77 billion in the financing estimate face deposits of €72 billion, making a financing requirement of just over €5 billion. More interesting and meaningful it becomes when you look at the estimate of results, i.e. the guva, the profit and loss account, when you translate it into the language of double accounting, where actual expenses are then compared to the revenues. And that's when it looks like revenues of 71.4 billion are against the level of 81.2 billion. This is a deficit of 9.8 billion, which is 2.8 percent of the gross domestic product. Unlike the Germans, the Swedishs, the Swisss, who can make surpluses and even reduce their debts, Austria has almost 10 billion losses. And so that it doesn't sound so bad, one has invented the concept or the reproach – not only in Austria, but across the EU – of the “structural deficit”. Then you don't even look at the costs so accurately anymore, but only the ones you can influence yourself. Additional and special costs, such as for refugees or for completely unnecessarily national pleite banks or for otherwise unforeseen ones, are calculated, and then there is a structural deficit of only 0.5 percent. And because it's so low anyway, you say: Ah, that's a zero deficit, and that's great! Not only in Austria, but also across the EU, but it is forgotten that debt has increased to 85 percent of gross domestic product, which is being suppressed. Yeah, that's how you can lie to your own pocket. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Just as we've been used to it for years, the budget is not ambitious. This is less about the Minister of Finance than the person, but rather about the government as a whole, because for years we have seen a consistent refusal to reform that makes any sustainable budget consolidation impossible. Administrative and structural reform – we have been waiting for years for nothing to happen. Wooden the overboarding jungle – we have been waiting for years for nothing to happen. Merging revenue and expenditure skills – we have been waiting for years for nothing to happen. Mr Finanzminister, you said yesterday that “every day without reform is a lost day”. - That's a real statement. You also said you were in office for 408 days yesterday; then it is 409 days today. That's why I can tell you now: If you have decided to deduct the one day on which you will have the collective reform of which you can say that it was all right, then now were 408 lost days for Austria! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But after all, In fact, € 1.1 billion is to be financed against expenditure-side measures – we have been looking for them so far in vain. That's where I've heard it. Should our government at last really be serious about reforming the administration, making it more cost-effective, perhaps even reducing the funding? Should the SPÖ really move at last, where the Minister of Finance has said several times yesterday that we do not have a revenue problem, but rather an expenditure problem? Let us look at what Parliament's budget service says about this. It means: “In particular with regard to savings in the areas of administration and support (...) more details are missing.” – So nothing again. And the budget report – that is the budget report – says only that an independent monitoring body should be set up to report on possible administrative reform proposals. [[Keeping a specimen in height]] Mr Finanzminister, you have the right diagnosis, namely we have a problem with expenditure, but You obviously have the wrong partner, the SPÖ, because nothing goes on for a long time! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would like to take a very brief look at an important point, the so-called cold progression, i.e. the inflation-related sluggish tax increase. It is this secret tax increase with which taxpayers have pre-financed the tax reform themselves in recent years, and it is also this secret tax increase that will have destroyed the effect of the tax reform by 2018. In August, the Minister of Finance said that he wanted to end the cold progression by 2017. That would have been a really good news for the tax payer who was plagued, that would have been a real reform, because reform is so much the case, Mr Klubobmann Lopatka. Just as IHS and WIFO predict an increase in inflation to 1.7 percent for the next year, that would have been, once again, a real, right and good reform. But happy too early, dear taxpayers, much too early! ==References== In September, the Minister of Finance did not have such a hurry with the discharge and has postponed the abolition of the cold progression to 2018. Today I have read in a newspaper that he does not know whether 2017 or 2018. We will definitely be watching it, and I am already excited how often the abolition of the cold progression in Austria will be postponed. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Since I still have time to speak, very briefly to re-regulate the VAT, the reduced rate of turnover, and to increase from 10 to 13 percent, especially for accommodation. This does almost nothing for the budget, but for those affected, unreasonable administrative tasks, unreasonable additional burdens. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A small example of tourism: If you stay at a wellness hotel where there is a sect breakfast – which is already part of the standard repertoire nowadays – then in the future, three tax rates will be charged individually by the entrepreneur 13 percent for the night, 10 percent – that is true, Mr. Finanzminister! – for breakfast and 20 percent for the glass of wine. [[Federal Minister Schelling: That's not true!]] A small profit for the Minister of Finance, but a great effort for the entrepreneur. And none of this is expected of a reform: that the bureaucracy will become more! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Finally, Mr Finanzminister, one more word on the thousands you mentioned yesterday, which each Austrian should have more on the stock exchange since 2016. It does not bother me at all if the Minister of Finance uses flowery comparisons, especially from the world of football – that is understandable, because the national team plays for classes better than this Federal Government – but the sticky thousands, Mr. Finanzminister, reminded me of something I heard 21 years ago. [[Interference of Vice-Chancellor Mitterlehner.]] Mr Finanzminister, I do not know who wrote this to you, but something good he did not do with it, because it reminds you of the Ederer-Tusher – it really has not happened! Although he was later tried to beautify him through various studies and to speak beautifully, the Ederer-Tausender is still the synonym for the EU disappointment of the Austrians. And if you try the same picture now, I really can't congratulate you on it, especially since you yourself also say that the effect will be eaten up by cold progression by 2018 at the latest. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] So stay as a final assessment of the budget: It is continued as before – at the expense of the hard-working taxpayers of this country.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e2953	Mrs. Club Chairman Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e2974	Madam President. Mein Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Mr Finanzminister, I can imagine very well, or we can imagine what a burden you have had over the past few weeks and months – from the Greek payment crisis to the ITA tax to the preparation of the budget – but I must honestly say that we expected something more from you yesterday. On the one hand, you have acted as a politician, as Minister of Finance, who has shown a very great zeal for reform, but on the other hand, this budget speech was actually the same as the budget speeches all the years before, which are largely empty and includes a lot of announcements that we have heard so often. [[Abg. Lopatka: But you didn't listen to that!]] – I listened very carefully. There were a lot of announcements we have heard so many times. Only the statement that “every day without reform is a lost day” is almost provocative in view of the deficits, as far as the reform projects of the Federal Government are concerned. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I'd like to bring you a few examples. One can like to draw flowery comparisons, but what are sentences like: “We save ourselves” and not with the citizen!, really mean? [[Interference of Federal Minister Schelling.]] I would have trusted you with a little more depth. – You can then explain to me what you mean by that. The pension reform has now often been addressed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] Pension reform, yes. [[Abg. Lopatka: You did the wrong thing in Vienna!]] We have also heard that a large package has been cancelled in summer, which is a very important project for older workers, where we all, I believe, want to pursue the goal of improving the situation on the labour market for them. The bonus malus system has just been cancelled! You had done that for the summer, could have entered into force already now, but has simply been cancelled. That's what I mean by provocative: When you say “that every day without reform is a lost day,” but on the other hand, you don’t even agree on a bonus malus system for companies for which companies between red and black can agree. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] As we already know them from many budget speeches, you are not worthy of such shame, Federal Minister Schelling. They're little things, but they just cause trouble. Approximately: They say Austria is a cultural nation, which we can also cost, 15,5 million € more for the culture. But if you look at the figures, it turns out that it is only about the issue of a credit for the museum quarter and that, on the contrary, even less is budgeted for the culture. That's what I mean by dirt that we don't really need. The same applies to science. Here is also announced: 160 million € more for the high technology location. In reality, however, the adaptation or increase of medical and medical salaries to the medical union is hidden. I find so much transparency and so much shame is actually not necessary – and you don't need it either. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Let's get around with each other a little bit more honest! At the beginning of your budget speech, you have also spoken of truth and portability, so let's leave these shames – they remind me of past times! –, let's just let it go! [[Abg. Wöginger: The Greens also have a shame...!]] A very relevant area is education. In education policy, we need a reform which is not limited to making additional money available, but it is also about creating real additional quality. [[Abg. Rädler: Vassilakou withdraws!]] [[Abg. Lopatka: Vassilakou has not resigned!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] The Education Reform Working Group has been working at the snail pace for months now – at the snail pace! I don't know, do you mind if I talk about education? Why do you talk... I understand. She's not if I'm talking to her. [[Abg. Wöginger: You hear what you want to hear!]] I understand you very badly when I speak myself. You obviously want to go to the Vienna municipal council – you can go over and discuss over there. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Kickl: It would only be because of the truth!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators:... councillor!]] - I'm coming back to the educational budget. The Education Reform Working Group is working at the snail pace. I remember the sentence: Every day where there is no reform, it is lost – or something similar. ==References== On November 27, this reform – which will be negotiated behind closed doors – will come to pass. The budget is to come into force on November. We are heading towards a gap of more than half a billion euros in education, and you did not say a specific sentence yesterday, and even the club members of ÖVP and SPÖ have not said a single sentence to this relevant future area, how to deal with this huge educational gap. I think that's very central. You've done your grandchild a visual job – I think it's nice that you think about your grandchild – but we're thinking of all the children and all the grandchildren of this republic, and that's why we have to take care of the educational reform and close this budget hole. Here's another shame: You said 100 million € more for education. – If you look more closely: Here, too, a grassy face: For years, the Federal Property Society of the Ministry of Education has been renting. This is now over, it has to pay at least €90 million in rents, that is, these €100 million are de facto eaten up by a structural problem from the past. – So there is little to do with reform! I am also very sorry because we are very happy to cooperate in reforms, and there have also been some steps that we expressly welcome. The fight against fraud in the tax reform is all right, yes, I think it is also very, very desirable to tackle automatic employee and employee charges. These are all reasonable projects, but please at a different pace! [[Abg. Lopatka: Very good!]] That really doesn't go on! In reality, in the context of the economic crisis in 2009/2010, the crisis in the labour market should have been a major challenge to these structural reforms. And essentially: I mean, the statement “we are saving ourselves” and not the citizen is a bit too cheap for me, Minister of Finance! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. El Habbassi.]] Now, at the heart of the tax reform, which is actually a collective reform: You also said yesterday, “Austria has an expenditure problem – and not a revenue problem”. I want to relativize this a little: They refuse to discuss the structure of revenue, and we have a tax structure problem. That's why we've been hearing the eternal replay of the statement for 20 years: Reduce additional labour costs! They refuse to discuss a tax reform with regard to the structure. [[Interference of Federal Minister Schelling.]] – On the one hand, Austria is still a paradise for the wealth, for foundations, for super-rich, but on the other hand, there is no fair taxation as far as pollutants are concerned with CO2. There is no ecological component in the tax reform, but there is an insidious burden on additional labour costs and the labour factor. – You should also discuss this, and this is not hidden with the sentence: We have a purely expenditure problem. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] – Yes, but we also have a tax structure problem, and we also need to discuss and work on it. And what is also very unfortunate: We have now discussed intensively the last weeks and months about international and European policies in dealing with refugees, with refugees. I would have liked – and not only I, I believe – that in some way this is reflected in foreign policy, in development cooperation, in our participation in international aid programmes, but the opposite is the case. The funds for the UNICEF Children's Relief Agency, one of the organizations that called out last year in September, that they can no longer put together packages for the children in the refugee camps around Syria, are cut in this budget! You will actually be cut by € 15 million! And I really don't get this together: on the one hand, the confessions from the European level down to the other, and on the other hand, we don't even have the opportunity – or you don't even see the possibility – to better support the child assistance work UNICEF in its important work on the spot, where the entire families are now fleeing. There was also an explicit mandate from the National Council both to you as Minister of Finance and to Foreign Minister Sebastian Kurz to finally address the development cooperation stage plan. They ignore this 100%, and this is simply unacceptable in the context of the international situation, I'm sorry. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] One last point, because it is also about the children and about the grandchildren: This year we are facing an all-important climate conference, the United Nations climate conference in Paris. It is clearly documented by all scientists that we really have the last chance to reach a global climate agreement with this conference. This means that for Austria too, we are facing the decision whether at the end of this century in Upper Austria we will have a climate like in southern Spain, that is, superheating days without end. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek]] This is a terrible burden for our next generation to change the climate in this way, and I would have at least one sentence – a single sentence! – on the issue of climate policy or climate protection or climate financing. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Perhaps you can make up for this today, Minister of Finance. This is certainly also an issue concerning children and grandchildren in Austria, and where there is also a reduction in resources and no increase in this budget. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] Unfortunately, I have too little time to deal with it even more in detail now, so again back to the starting point: We would have expected you to have a little more detailed or even a little more depth and not these shames, the sentences you brought. We have heard those of the Spindelegger speeches, we have heard them before from the finance ministers, and this is actually no longer appropriate to the situation.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e3257	Mr Klubobmann's next speech is Dr. Strolz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e3278	Madam President. Estimated government members! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear taxpayers, future taxpayers on the gallery and on the screens! Today, we are negotiating the 2016 budget, and in addition to unqualified calls from unqualified best practice, we are negotiating today the speech of the Minister of Finance, who spoke of responsibility. [[Abg. Rädler: Mr. Haselstei-ner!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] Mr Finanzminister, you spoke of responsibility, sustainability. – You know, I am on and on my own I am a Schelling-Sympathist; I can also sign a lot of what you made sound like here yesterday. On the track, Mr. Finanzminister, I have some sympathy, but: By the deeds you will know them! – And this is the problem of this federal government: that words do not follow. [[Abg. Lopatka: This is Biblical!]] – Yes, Mr Lopatka, there are other Bible festival, not only the ÖVP, be calm! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Kickl: They're not that far apart!]] By the deeds you will know them! – and I ask you: They deliver a budget here, where we deliver the 54. Year in a row – the 54. Year in a row! – the next generation recharges a weight of further debt. The 54th. Year in a row we charge further debts on the highest debt mountain in the history of this country. These young people who sit up there waiting outside to enter the labour biography – and that at a time when the highest unemployment has been waiting for them for 60 years, at a time when we have an emergency in the education sector, because a fifth with 15 cannot read enough, at times when we have a tax reform that will further promote unemployment – put this young person another €5 billion in the backpack next year – €5 billion! Claudia [[towards gallery]] [[Abg. Kickl: At times where..., you drop that back under the table!]] Gamon as the voice of the boys and as a fighter for generation justice here yesterday addressed it: These young people will hardly be able to get up because this backpack is getting harder from year to year – it gets harder from year to year! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] And because you're talking about responsibility, I ask you the following – show you –: Who of you considers it responsible and a sign of sustainability to pack another €5 billion into this debt backpack? Who of you – show you! –, who thinks this is sustainable? Who here thinks this is sustainable? - None! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] See, this is the problem of this Parliament: We constantly decide things we know about and of which you also say under four eyes, that's not right, but we decide, and we fail to do things for which we have absolute majority in here under four eyes. [[Abg. Kickl: We don't decide anything!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ:We do not!]] Under four eyes, ÖVP members and SPÖ members tell me: Yes, we should, but we do not, because we do not have the power to take these decisions in here. Why? - Because they can't move. Mr Finanzminister, you are the most prominent “häftling” of this Republic, that is the problem. [[Abg. Lopatka: Go!]] You are hostageed by representatives of interests, by national leaders, you are wearing a multiple footband. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] That's my sympathy, but you can't move. You'll have to admit that after a year. [[Abg. Lopatka: That was hateful now!]] Yesterday, Mr. Finanzminister, I read an interview from you in the ‘FORMAT’: It's been three years since you signed this standstill in Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] You said a lot of right things, but things don't happen. And if you say that every day without reform is a lost day, and the Lord Mitterlehner whispers into my ears right here – I don't know what, but he whispers – then I have to tell you one thing: 10 490 days is the ÖVP in the government, and there were damned many lost days for this country and for the next generation – damn many! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] And I have to tell you: Next year another full 365 lost days will be added. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Why? – They will not get away from the spot in the administrative reform. You say that you will set up almost a billion in counter-financing for the administrative reform. What's going to be Are you doing so in the administration which will be a positive move to the budget within the next year? - You can't do that! Please talk to Tacheles! It's just windy to look at something like this without being able to fulfill it, and you know at that time that you can't fulfill it. [[Abg. Wöger: How do you talk?]] I quote one who is not with NEOS, but who is familiar to you. Hannes Androsch prophesies the Federal Government a disaster. He says that this government is driving “at 200 kilometres to the wall. ” They have been “degraded to a subterranean conference. ” He says that the real problems lie with the Federal Government. The social partners, various stakeholders, but also the national leaders themselves, are paralysing this policy of government. The true “power centers have the strength to prevent everything but not to move. ” And this is the signal to the citizens if you really want to move here, if you want fair opportunities for the next generation – at the moment we are being passed from the front to the back in the European Union, we will massively reduce in the next few years in terms of prosperity, quality of life year after year –: Dear citizens, if You want to change that, then you have to start choosing differently – that's quite simple – otherwise it won't work anymore! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Why? – Because they are structurally caught in these conflicts of interest. What to do? – Unemployment will continue to rise next year, Mr Lopatka, by 6 to 8 percent. Almost 50,000 new unemployed will be added – not a turnaround. [[Abg. Kickl: And you want to open the labour market! That's it, too!]] We will have an economic growth which has been reduced by half for this year alone compared to the forecast half a year ago. We will also put unemployment on it in 2017, and you do not have counter recipes there. What to do? – Of course, we have to reduce additional labour costs, for example, and we have also made proposals for chamber handling, for example, towards the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Labour. There are 40 percent plus forced contributions over the last ten years. Yeah, where are we? Hallelujah! While people have lost real wages, while entrepreneurs have been in crisis for seven years, the forced contributions amount to 40 percent plus. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] That's what we've got to do! This is not the case with the Federal Government. Be honest, too. Confess this, Minister of Finance. You should, of course, adopt labour market packages. You have already announced this in spring, then you have postponed it to September – now we have October, and nothing has still happened. Social partnership has become the biggest brake block of this government at the passenger’s seat after it has acquired great merit. Why? – It is not only a shadow government, it also blocks the majority in here. That's the problem. [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: Well, what now? Now you've just said we're going to the wall with 200, then why do we brake at the same time?]] They're slowing down on reforms. [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: That's not true!]] Mr Mitterlehner! You have to imagine this in the picture: This federal government is on the Loserstraße on the trail. That's the acceleration you're making here for this country. [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner:... does not work!]] You all know, and you too, Mr Mitterlehner, know it. If you are outside companies – and I was a lot with companies – then you know how the mood is [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter]] I haven't met any entrepreneurs in recent months – and I was in many companies – who would have said: Yes, I feel encouraged and understood by this Federal Government, so I will create new jobs! – I met many who said: I can't do it anymore! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] No expansion investment, no replacement investment – with this federal government I can't imagine investing in the right country here! And look, this will fuel unemployment. A last look at education because I look at young people – Eva Glavischnig has already mentioned it –: [[towards gallery]] How did you do this? – We have asked several times, you are missing 343 million in the budget this year. [[Abg. ==References====External links== Lugar) The Lugar is already standing!]] We asked several questions: Where do you get the money? . As a Parliament, you have not given us an answer, although we are the sovereign for the budget here. You will then make a supplementary budget where you will simply move over 300 million without informing Parliament, and it will also include a surplus authorisation for next year, where you will do the same again. [[Abg. Lopatka: Look-up, not addition!]] We miss 500 million € for education, and you say: Yeah, let's see. We put 106 million on it, of which we need 80 percent to repay the support of federal property funds from 2014. That means that there is still a half a billion missing next year. And you say, Yeah, what's the matter? – Probably at the end of the year, we'll be somehow tricking again. Look, so you can't make a policy for fair opportunities and sustainability, and that's why, I think, you shouldn't put the term sustainability in your mouth when you talk about this 2016 budget. [[Federal Minister Schelling: This has not happened at all in the entire speech!]] It's just not a convenient term for what you're planning here.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e3637	The next item is Mr Klubobmann Lugar's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e3659	Madam President. High house! Mr. Finanzminister, it's not a secret. When you got there, there's been a lot of advance ladyberries for you. Also from our side was a great hope with your person, as you are an economic captain, who also has this certain independence and independence, which is necessary to do the right thing as a finance minister. And I have to say: It looked very, very good at the beginning. In the meantime, however, we are experiencing something that we unfortunately had to experience with other finance ministers, namely that the willingness to implement reforms actually decreases exponentially, the longer you are in office. Many say that you at least realized yesterday where the problems lie in this country, but that has already been recognized by everyone before you, even Mrs Fekter, who unfortunately is not sitting here, has recognized this. They, too, also Spindelegger has repeatedly said where the problems lie, and yesterday we heard that from you – but we have not heard any solutions. We've heard headlines, but the question is: Is that enough? And if you look closely at the budget, you'll find a point on which to look at it. They are particularly proud, namely the tax reform, which is, in fact, a tariff reduction. But if you look at this tax reform carefully and if you realize that you are here as a Finance Minister giving us €5 billion as a tax reduction, but in reality you are €5 billion new debt, then you realize that we have to repay this with interest rate and interest rate. That is, the big throw you place here is nothing but the following: On the one hand, they take up 5 billion new debts and give them to the taxpayer – and hope that he doesn't think he has to repay that one day with interest and interest rate. That's the government's tactics! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] That is, it's going to spread sand into the eyes here, because otherwise it's impossible to explain that you're standing here, holding a budget speech and then saying great: We want to build 10,000 new apartments! We have a huge problem in Austria, namely: Living is becoming less and less sedentary. – That is, where someone used to reach, who deserves to pay for apartment and everything else, it is not even enough today if two earn. [[Call the SPÖ: Please!]] In order to prevent this from being able to live in Austria again, we need at least 40 000 homes once to recover the backlog, because there are 40 000 apartments missing – and that's why you come and say you want to build 10,000 new apartments. With 10,000 new apartments, you can't even accommodate half of the refugees coming only this year. We have to expect 80 000 refugees: Where do you want to accommodate them? – In other words, these 10,000 apartments you want to build are not even a drop on the hot stone, and yet you are here and announce: This is a great offensive; sustainable living will finally be possible! Or a second example: education. – We have a huge problem in the field of education, and the only reason why you don’t help here is that the Minister of Education is now from the other side. Unfortunately, the Minister for Education is the SPÖ, and that is why the education sector is starved out quite gradually. The Minister of Education can no longer pay the rents for the schools, the schools can no longer heat and can no longer repair them – of the expansion of the schools, of the whole day school, of the possibilities of internal differentiation, of individual promotion not to talk at all. The Court of Auditors tells you that we need at least €300 million for school alone next year, probably €500 million. And then put yourself here and say, 106 million € is available for the school – and the whole thing is still in connection with the women's budget! This is a blow to the face of all Austrians, who only a little bit deal with the numbers. Why Make You do? Why is the money so loose when it comes to throwing €2.4 billion behind Bavaria? They tried to explain to us yesterday – and I must acknowledge this – why this is so meaningful, but I, honestly, could not understand it. [[Federal Minister Schelling: That did not surprise me!]] Why do we pay the Bayern a little above, where the Bayern have made the debakel a substantial contribution to the hypo? In this case the money is loose: 1.2 to 2.4 billion €! But when it comes to giving what she needs for education, the €300 million that the Court of Auditors is talking about, or the €500 million that one can at last do a substantial thing in this area, then the understanding is not enough, because unfortunately the Minister for Education is from the SPÖ. – This is the problem we have in this government. And then you'll be very proud that it's been great, because after 41 years you've managed to make a signature. This must be broken on the tongue: For 41 years the Minister of Finance has been able, together with the President of the Court of Auditors, to harmonise the accounting and accounting rules of the countries with a single signature, so that one can finally see what the countries are doing with the tax money. This is our tax money that the countries get! And for 41 years, finance ministers have not been able to make this signature. I emphasize: For 41 years! [[Federal Minister Schelling: I already did it!]] Now you've done it, and it's also in your budget speech that this is a great achievement. Of course this is a great achievement! But only to get a sense of how long it can take in Austria until a finance minister puts a signature under a document Not because the finance ministers did not already realize before you that this is necessary, not because you did not realize it, but because the country heads simply brake it! [[Federal Minister Schelling: Twelve months, not 41 years!]] And now you seem to be the first to give up courage to do something here also against the heads of state. But is it really what we want? This one signature you could have done 30 years ago? [[Call SPÖ and ÖVP: What do you want now?]] When we talk about reforms, it is not about a signature under a document, but about the fact that we really do something in the pension sector, in the health field. You mentioned the health sector with just two sentences in your budget speech. You just said that the health costs are exploding. Off. [[Federal Minister Schelling: That's not true!]] – I have it here in the original, I can read it to you if you do not believe it, two sentences: The health costs will rise! - Tastes! That's it. In the same way in the administrative field: no approaches at all! It's just about buying the taxpayer with gifts. Buying voters at voter's cost: That's your program! Look at the tax reform! I am not against the tax reform, of course people have to be relieved, but we have to be able to afford it, and that is why we need reforms – and not a signature after 41 years, but substantial reforms. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] As the Court of Auditors has been expecting not only since the 400 days or a little more than the 400 days you are now in office. The Court of Auditors is thinking of what to do. Only: You don't do it! What you're doing is: You buy the voters or at least try, you won't succeed. [[Federal Minister Schelling: Mr Stronach did that!]] It is quite impossible, Mr Finance Minister, to buy the voters. But if you, Minister of Finance, tell us, on the one hand, you are giving us 5 billion tax reductions, and on the other hand, we are paying back this with 5 billion new debt with interest and interest interest, then that is not fair. This is not a reform! And that's not worthy of you either.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e3805	Next, Mr. Vice-Chancellor Dr. Mitterlehner spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e3826	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! We actually have a problem, but I see the problem also or especially in the discussion, because the discussion would already require a certain differentiation and should and should be in order to address the problems and the opportunities. On the other hand, I also see a certain contradiction, not only in the pictures that Matthias Strolz has striped here, with the 200 km/h and the brake blocks at the passenger seat, but that is his matter. I have seen the contradiction with Mrs Glavischnig-Piesczek, but also with others who, on the one hand, criticise the fact that there is a certain deficit, on the other hand, complain that there is too little there and there, in the field of education and elsewhere, and there are strong proposals where there should be more. That is why I would first of all like to say one thing because some are always criticizing, the EIA has put the Minister of Finance in the last 15 years, or even 40 years, which is not quite the case, but would have been better: Only that and the care of the ordinary merchant have led us to have a budget as we have it, a stable one – compare it with other countries across Europe! – where the pensioner can rely on his pension, the unemployed person to ensure that unemployment insurance works, the people to ensure that the infrastructure fits that universities are financed. We thank our finance ministers for this continuity. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Secondly, I also tell you that it is thought and intentioned that the budget and, above all, the fiscal reform included in the budget should lead to growth accordingly. I've actually not heard that in the speeches yet. Yes, that will be the case! Mr Lugar, it is a bit funny if you say that the Minister of Finance said he would give money to citizens, €5 billion, while the deficit would rise by exactly 5 billion. [[Abg. Lugar: Exactly!]] This has other causes, otherwise we would not talk about counter-financing. [[Abg. Lugar: Yes, but it is! We can't afford it! That's it!]] It is very responsible not to make a tax reform exclusively on pump in times like those where we owe. [[Abg. Lugar: That's what you're doing!]] It wouldn't be responsible! It is responsible to make a serious counter-financing and then to ask why the budget deficit is rising. That's what I'm going to come back to. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] So I tell you – and this is what the economic researchers say – that the tax reform will help us to pick up the delle that we have had in growth, that we will be at 1.6 percent after IMF. They all read the studies and the “format. ” Read it exactly! It also says that unemployment will even fall. This is the IMF's assessment. We hope that it will work and that the tax reform will, on the one hand, lead to consumption and, on the other hand, increase investment. That is true of the negative mood, because I am quite right to Mr Strolz, which has become a self-trailer. But I also see the responsibility in one or another representation of interest here, because if Mrs Schratzenstaller and also Mr Felder say yesterday, well, it is not as clear as the measures to counter-finance the tax reform will take, then either can be wrong or the other presumption that everyone in his own field believes that he and his group will pay twice for the tax reform. I don't mean that cynical now, but that's what I mean, that some seem to overvalue. For example, if Mr. Haider addresses the 3 percent in tourism: If you look at the inflation rate and what Statistics Austria has presented in this context, a part has already been passed on – as in the theatre cards. It's the right thing to put this in the price. [[Abg. Haider: This is paid by the hoteler, nothing will be passed on!]] But the history of VAT is a proposal of the industry itself to get the 3 percent in touch. The fact that this is of course associated with bureaucracy is clear, but it is not possible and so desired. [[Abg. Haider: This is not so desirable!]] We're trying to make it as easy as we can. So: The tax reform will work, will bring us forward. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mrs Glawischnig, you go out there and say that all that the Minister of Finance says there, for example, in the field of science, everything is just a shame. And then you said in the field of science, 160 million increase for 2016 inside, so we only finance the higher medical salaries. I have to tell you: This is simply not true, with always the fact that any increase, especially in a field such as hospitals or science, entails personnel costs. But that could have been the first ten years before, in the own autonomous field of medical universities and others. But the second thing is: A part is used from the reserve that we have built up, and is not effective in this area. They could also devote – and with this I am in differentiation – to the fact that for the first time we have 4.3 billion for science, research and development and increase rates that bring us there that we have an R&D quota of 3%. This makes us fourth in Europe. That doesn't mean we can't get any better, but that's actually a good development. But I understand, you're opposition. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] But now I am also telling you what development and the willingness to reform are going on: What else is the Minister of Finance supposed to do, because he has to picture the activities and the payments and revenues for the coming year here? And he can only point out that, of course, future security will only be given with reforms and every day that we are wasting is a bad day. But at the pensions you have to see the reality as well: We all decided sometime, some 40 years ago, to create a very complex pension system. It was the Lore Hostasch, who started with Mr Bert Rürup in 1996. And counter-taxing is definitely difficult when it comes to turning a pension system in such a way that it costs less and then we have more money for childcare and also for education and universities. Yes, we all want that, but it's difficult because we don't want to cut the benefits. We are working on this, but it is clear that the Minister of Finance is asking for it, but not in a budget for the next year. So that's not too little ambitious, but it's just ambitious and right in terms of the future. And since you are all such good football experts: Whether we play there or there in the league, a certain qualification, a certain time span are always necessary for the Cham pawn League. Only if you are committed to it and properly build it up – and we do! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] My speaking time is relatively short, but I would like to address a subject that concerns all of us, and that also shows the contradiction. This is where Mr Haider and others of his party go out and strongly criticize the costs for the refugees, but not only the costs, but also make it clear that these costs are not affordable, and point out that the budget service and others also criticize it. Now I'm telling you: That's pretty cynical, that's pretty unfair! Faith You really think you can plan war, persecution, or need for protection?- Oh, my God! Do you really believe that?- Oh, my God! We are faced with this problem. And everyone who accuses the Federal Government: Where's crisis management? Look at Germany, look at France!, I can only say: They have exactly the same problem there! But if we have the same problem, that does not mean that we cannot deal fairly with the problem. And that's what I'm telling you: It is not a shame, but it is true that we are funding it and that we see that this is also in line with the fears of the Austrians, that there is no one who believes his pension or other would be at risk if we were to cover the costs for the refugees sufficiently. Only: There, Mrs. Glavischnig, I don't understand one again: They criticise that we have not balanced the budget, but the next moment they say that families need much more, and the Foreign Minister would have the task of doing something here. I'd like to bring you up: Where is your funding proposal for this? And I'm asking You also: What has a climate conference lost in the budget speech? [[Abg. Brunner: Klima-Bilanzierung!]] – I can only tell you: As far as climate objectives are concerned, we have taken the successful path of achieving them, and this is positive for Austria. There and there we have changed far too slowly as far as the CO2 payments are concerned. They were a budget-relevant. But otherwise this is not the subject of the Minister of Finance's budget speech! – Yes, but do you want us to do even higher now – and there we are again at the contradiction – voluntarily what we have to do anyway? [[Abg. Brunner: Yes! ... financial support for developing countries!]] [[Abg. Silver: Brunner!]] Or what do you want? [[Abg. Brunner: A fair contribution from Austria!]] What do you want? To blame us on the other side, the budget is not balanced! Therefore, ladies and gentlemen: I would ask you if you would ask for something if you would ask for more money for the education and everywhere, that you make an appropriate funding proposal. [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Enjoy! We still have speakers!]] – And your accusation, Mr. Lugar, is really: It is not even worthy of you to say that only because the Minister of Education comes from the coalition partner would this area starved. You need to discuss this in your own club, not with us. [[Abg. Lugar: But this is reality with you! That's where you have to get your own nose!]] It's not quite qualified somewhere, but you have to evaluate it and the listeners. I come to the end of this and I want to say: It is not easy in times like this because the problems have become more complex. It's only right that we have a stability anchor, and that's our budget. Throughout all these years, it has always been respected, despite all fears, we meet the requirements of the European Union and we can also cover outsiders and other financing needs, emergency aid as in refugee problems. I don't know if you forgot, or if I have to tell you again: We are in the sixth year of an economic crisis, which has had such an impact not only on us but also in other countries, and we have really managed it very well when you look at the labour market. I'm sorry, you won't be able to take it positively afterwards, but at least you should take it with you that you are not the whole truth, but only the one part. But there is also the positive. And the art of the budget is to keep the balance and take a path that leads back to the top, which is also objectively detectable. The fact that we have to deal with this ambitiously and possibly also have to act together is our task. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e4036	Mr Hundstorfer has been reported next word. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e4057	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen. I can speak to you today on behalf of the not completely healthy Federal Chancellor. It has already been explained a lot, much presented. This budget is a budget in very complex times. It is a budget at a time when we are expected to have an economic growth of 0.7 percent this year. It is also a budget at a time – and this has just been done by the Vice-Chancellor – where an economic and financial crisis leaves its mark across Europe and, unfortunately, worldwide. They all know the data, among other things, from Asia, especially from China. These are major challenges, and I think we have faced these challenges. We have opposed that we have set out specific measures to ensure that employment and economic growth are as good as possible in international comparison. All this under the premise of keeping the budget within the framework of European rules. And we managed to achieve a structurally balanced budget, two years earlier than we had proposed, because we knew how to use better conditions. Steps are now being taken again to keep the budget stable, but at the same time to respond actively to the challenges of the economy and the labour market. I now need not repeat everything connected with the tax reform in detail. I think this is well known here. But it is remarkable to implement such a huge project in 2016, still fully counter-financed, and it is also remarkable that we can thereby provide 6.4 million people in this country with a discharge. It has often been mentioned by the Minister of Finance – and again yesterday – on the issue of counter-financing a few important details. It is also important to mention here that it is economically and morally right and that the task of responsible policy is to take the money from tax evasion and return it to the hard working people. And even though I am repeatedly criticized by some members of this House that we would be too hard in the wage and social dumping law, in the anti-fraud law: Ladies and gentlemen, it is about fraud! The issue is that wages are not properly paid out, it is that taxes are not disposed of properly. It can't be to want to protect that. This cannot be the economic model of this country. I would really ask some to consider their point of view in depth and to take note that we are on the right path here. The result of the tax reform and this effort is already seen in the forecasts: In 2016, our economy will grow by 1.4 percent. That is, as has been said, a doubling compared to this year. At the same time, we remain faithful to our premise: “Save where it is possible to invest where it is necessary. ” We spend €300 million on broadband development. We invest in economic promotion and, and, But we also face challenges, for example on the labour market. We see, among other things, that reforms that we have set in the pension system – the retirement age in Austria will also get higher again this year – and I say here very consciously: Of course, we have to keep that path. We can't leave this path. This higher growth will also not automatically lead to noticeable improvements in the labour market. There will continue to be a very tense labour market situation: on the one hand, the increase, because we live in a Europe where ladies and gentlemen from Europe want to come to our labour market – as well as Austrians go out to the European labour market – and on the other hand, there will be a continuing increase in women's participation in the labour market, and, of course, the aggravation of the conditions of entry for early or invalidity pensions will also affect. For us, this means that we have to work hard in this area, and we will need measures here to keep people in employment for longer or, in order to do so, to create enough jobs. It has also been held here – this is especially addressed to you, Mr Strolz: We have more 30 000 jobs compared to the previous year – yes, many of them part-time, no question at all, but it is still better to work part-time than not at all. [[Abg. Stroll: I know that!]] As a result, it is not the case here that everything is collapsing and that there is pessimism everywhere, because otherwise we would not have a company in Upper Austria, for example, which has invested 350 million euros on the border with the Federal Republic of Germany alone in this year alone, otherwise we would not have to invest quite properly in many, many other areas of this country. I am also sorry what Swarovski announced yesterday, namely, to reduce the number of workers on the one hand, and to invest €90 million at the same time. I'm sorry, too! Conversely, they compete with China, which we also need to see. [[Abg. Stroll: Then we need framework conditions!]] We cannot bring the Chinese environment to the European market, Mr Strolz, please. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Do you want 280 million migrant workers, as China has, who are not socially insured?- Oh, my God! Do you want to do so in Europe, in the relation bill?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Stroll: 10 percent more expensive than in Germany is the labor force! That's the problem!]] But that is not the case, Mr Strolz. Look Why don't you take the budgets? Look You're looking at the conditions that prevail there! Listen to what the Swiss industry says! Listen carefully! [[Abg. Strolz: Switzerland has balanced budgets! The last ten years – eight years of surplus!]] And you'll see that this model doesn't work either. In this connection, I would like to say: Anyone who is willing to make a constructive contribution here is a partner. But if there are sturding positions, then there will still have to be decisions, because we – and this is especially related to jobs – are guilty of people looking for work. I know that, of course, such a budget estimate or what is available is very massively criticized. That's clear to me. But, ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party, you already allow me to say the following – it has to be said quite simply –: Only what you have submitted here in recent months or in the last one and a half years in the social field means an additional effort of €12 billion – €12 billion, and you do not even start by saying how to finance it. To say that a few close-to-party organizations are supposed to get less money, is a hectic – because they never get 12 billion €, you know that too. That sounds good, is populist, but not anymore. I would really ask you: If you think you want to take on any responsibility, then be serious! Because, on the one hand, you can make yourself up here and say, this has to be done away with and that has to be done, but at the same time you have to deposit €12 billion of demands, knowing very well that they are never eligible for funding in the form you represent here – they are never eligible for funding! – this is a process that I have to say: Seriosity, please, look different! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: So if you had always done this, I wonder where the debt came from! Where's the debt pile coming from? How does it come from when the SPÖ has always seen that you can cover everything?]] A task that we had to face in the last few weeks and months was the question of refugees, and of course there is also here – that has already been done by Mr Vice-Chancellor – the question of the costs arising. But I think we made provision in the 2016 budget. We've taken care of it, I think, a lot of seriality. We have also provided with a lot of attention, because you can of course never know exactly in this area: If people who fight for their lives leave their homes because their lives are at risk, you can't put up with planning numbers, just as you might do with production planning numbers, that's no question. But I think we have tried very hard to provide basic services here, we have provided for integration measures, for measures on the labour market. Of course, we have also made money available for NGOs and for the federal states. But it's clear: The best investments we can make in this context are funds that will prevent people from fleeing or at least stay close to their homes. Here, too, I believe, Austria – and I am deeply convinced that – will contribute appropriately to the support of UNHCR, the World Food Programme and the Madad Fund. And of course we will also, with experts, support the establishment of hotspots at the EU's external border. Ladies and gentlemen! I'd like to finish. I would like to thank all the employees of the resorts very much. I would like to thank the Ministry of Finance and the Minister of Finance for the last few days and weeks when this budget is being drawn up, sometimes very hard work for colleagues in the departments, but nevertheless a very, very great work. It is a budget that shows that Austria can be proud of what we have done in the past, of its people who do excellent work. But together we can also be proud of a state that is aware of the challenges of the future and is very active in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e4178	Mr Krainer is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e4199	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! The most frequently liked words in this debate were “football ” and“ refugees. ” And yes, they have something to do with each other, for example, that someone who came as a four-year-old a little more than 20 years ago as a refugee to Austria now carries the number 10 in the football team – Zlatko Junuzović – and we are all delighted with his great achievements that he delivers for Austria. Perhaps you should also remember how important it is not only that you are human and people who are fleeing from war, that is security and sometimes also a new home, but also how important it is to integrate and that from the first day when someone comes to Austria as a refugee of war, you also think about integration and integrate the refugees. And sport is just a nice part of it and a good example of how well integration works. The Austrian national team consists not only of Junuzović, but also of a Dragović and Arnautović and an alaba and a Harnik, which is also integrated, because it is also half a German. [[Abg. Kickl: Think exactly what that means!]] In fact, this is also a nice picture of how well just working in sport integration, and we are all happy about the successes of this national team. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Because a bit of a complaint has now been made that the budget speech – under quotation marks – is “a bit fat”: I didn't find her fat at all. But that it is more announcements and nothing new is simply because we have a new budgetary right and the essential key figures of the budget are simply decided in April and in May here in the house. In the past, the question was always: How high will the deficit be? – This has been known for months now. Therefore, the speech of the Minister of Finance in spring, I find, in fact, more exciting than that in autumn, because there really is the essential key figures for the next few years. [[Abg. Lugar: They're not both exciting!]] This is perhaps something that has not yet arrived entirely in the culture of the house and in the consciousness of all. I believe that the budget, which is now available in all the details – and not only on the rough lines, as we have been here since May – is particularly noticeable by one, and that is the tax reform. The tax reform is certainly the essential part of this budget, where we can also read out what is happening here, namely that the tax structure – Mr Glawischnig has rightly said that we have a tax-structure problem – will continue to be improved in Austria. This is not a new step, not a new one, but a way that the Faymann I government has actually taken: to reduce taxes and taxes on work and to re-establish or increase taxes on wealth and capital. This road was right and is right and will continue to be right in the future, because it is only one or two important and really big steps that we are taking with the tax reform, but we still need to reduce taxes and taxes on work, and we still need to improve this balance, which we still have in our tax structure. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I believe that this budget also provides for a number of important investments – important if you look to the future. Investments in education, particularly in day-to-day support, all-day schools, investment in research and development, and, for example, in rural, broadband, can be read well here. These are very, very important investments in the future, which you see in the budget and which surely deserve the support of the whole house. Of course, you can always find a few critical words – I have done this with every budget speech so far. What I believe is that we need to do more about unemployment. The budget contains very important points in the fight against unemployment. Only through the tax reform and the resulting increase in purchasing power, and so on do we expect impulses. The Social Minister has also said that we have more jobs than a year ago: 30,000 more. Yes, “only” – with quotations – 3,000 are full-time jobs and 27 000 are part-time jobs, but as far as labour market policy is concerned, we create more jobs each year. The inflow to the labour market by young people, also by immigration, by women, through longer work is just greater, I say, than what is being created there. [[Abg. Street: The boys are getting less and less in demography!]] But I think we have to put more emphasis on the fight against unemployment. With regard to the discussions that exist here at the government level and at the social level for a labour market package, I believe that it is very, very essential that they come to the finish line and that we make really massive investments this year in the fight against unemployment. A second criticism is of course that we still have structural support for staff costs in the field of education and training. [[Demonstrative applause by Mrs Walser and Mr Rossmann.]] This is balanced by a supplementary budget, as it was presented yesterday, but we also need structurally simple budgeting in terms of staff costs. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rossmann]] So these are points where there is still a need for improvement. But the whole thing has to be kept: The focus of this budget is the tax reform, and it is really a great, great thing. To reduce taxes on work and increase taxes on capital and assets is exactly the right way. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e4286	Next speaker is Mrs Tamandl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e4308	Ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens, via live stream, on the gallery! Madam President. Mr. Minister of Finance! Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! The Minister of Finance presented his budget yesterday. My colleague Krainer said: The financial framework for the years to 2019 was already presented and presented here in May, i.e. we have no major surprises at the expenditure ceilings or at the other key figures. However, Mr. Finanzminister also explained this yesterday, this budget is of course marked by major challenges, such as the situation on the labour market, where we cannot expect any improvements in 2016 and 2017. Of course, it is also marked by the wave of refugees that overruns Austria and Europe, and in this respect, Mr Vice-Chancellor has already explained that it cannot be planned that it is not possible – we could not have recognized five years ago what high expenditure we have here. However, it is also marked by the tax reform of €5.2 billion, which we have awarded here. And all those who claim that we can't actually afford this, I can only give it right. But the tax reform is not a gift, Mr Lugar, but the tax reform is the relief of taxpayers, who most often pay in the state bags. [[Abg. Lugar: A gift of choice on pump!]] And thanks must be given to them, because otherwise we could not distribute anything either. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Lugar: A gift of choice on pump!]] I can only say to those who are still talking about more redistribution and more and more amounts of redistribution: If we don't take anything, and if we keep squeezing out more and more of the taxpayers, then at some point nothing will go at all. And I think we have taken a first step in this tax reform. On average, 1 000 € per year we save taxpayers. The tax reform will also have a high degree of self-financing: € 900 million. We have also put in place many other measures, including simplifications. I think it is not bad enough to say that there is an automatic employee charge. It is not minor to say that now families no longer have to apply for family allowance if they have a baby, but that this is automatic. I believe that even small steps should be very, very positive. But as far as the reforms are concerned, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot rest on the laurels of this tax reform, nor can we rest on the overall tax reform. In other words, we are very much in need of an additional wage reduction. In this respect, we have already agreed that this will at least work from 2018 onwards. The Minister of Finance addressed yesterday 2017. I think every day earlier is a won day. The second is, of course, the abolition of the cold progression, which we also owe to taxpayers, because otherwise they will pay every time they get real income. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, If the call for more money comes – more money for education, more money for the labour market, more money for other things – then I have to tell you: If funds are used but not used efficiently enough, then we need to review that. [[Abg. Lugar: Just do it! Do it!]] Then: If we spend €1.5 billion on active labour market policies and spend 80 per cent alone to qualify workers who are unemployed, but we do not succeed in reducing unemployment, but in increasing unemployment, we have to make sure that we have a tooth on the increase in efficiency. [[Abg. Lugar: What prevents you from doing so?]] The same is true of education, ladies and gentlemen. For those who are always demanding, we need to invest more money in education: Yes, then Mrs Heinisch-Hosek should write to the main book that she must also be more efficient! [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Oh, call at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wittmann: And what about the Mikl leader? Then we'll talk about the Mikl leaders as well!]] [[Further calls to representatives of the SPÖ.]] Because the amounts we put into education per capita are higher than in other countries, only the output is not so good. [[Abg. Strache: Mr. Schieder, she is not wrong: the money does not come in the school class!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let me finish. Efficiency is an essential point, and I believe that we should not be content with medium-sized measures in Austria. We should get back to the top in Austria. We should consider how we succeed in joining in the growth, innovation and strength that we had in Austria, for example in 2005, 2006 for example, when Mr. Bundeskanzler Schüssel was observed by Germany and by other countries and when it was said: Austria, you're better, you're better Germany! [[Abg. "The better Germany"?]] - We have to get back to the top. [[Abg. "The better Germany"?]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Bitch.]] At that time you were in the government, Mr. Strache. I don't know what to laugh at. [[Abg. I'm just quoting you! “The better Germany,” you said!]] We will deal intensively with the budget in the next few weeks. We have enough opportunity in the Committee on Budgets – starting for a week with a hearing – to discuss, analyse, advise on the budget. But, ladies and gentlemen, what we still need and what we stand for are reforms, further reforms in education, in the pension sector, in other areas. [[Abg. Lugar: Do it!]] [[Abg. Lugar: Do it! Do it! Do it!]] [[Abg. Lugar: Don't talk – do it!]] Therefore: We are bringing Austria to the top, and we are, of course, there, Mr Lugar. Whether you're there, we'll see.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e4547	The next item is Mr Ddr. Fuchs. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e4569	Madam President. Members of the Federal Government! High house! Values Advisors! The budget speech made yesterday by the Minister of Finance needs some corrections. [[Abg. Lopatka: Go!]] For the first budget speech fairy tale – I quote –: On average, 1 000 € directly into the wallet through this tax reform. - Quote. It is true that tax increases need to be deducted from these €1,000. I would like to mention the following tax increases: Delete the tax deductibility of the special expenditure on pots, increase in the car relationship, increase in the maximum social security contribution base, increase in capital income tax, increase in real estate income tax, increase in sales tax to 13 percent in many areas, introduce a hidden inheritance and gift tax by increasing the income tax, and so on. After deduction of these tax increases, nothing remains of the promised thousands. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Federal Minister Schelling: The fact that a tax advisor is so wrong is also good!]] The fact that the average taxpayer, whom the Minister of Finance has repeatedly quoted yesterday, is not present in reality is to illustrate the following example: According to the new red and black millionaire relief rate, a top earner with a monthly gross salary of 84 124 € will be relieved by around 2 000 € per year. If you divide this €2,000 by two, you will get an amount of €1,000, and after the Minister of Finance's division, two average taxpayers will be relieved by €1,000 each. – So that can’t really be true! For the second budgetary speech story – I quote the Minister of Finance again –: From for secret tax increases, i.e. for cold progression. “This is a gift from citizens to the Minister of Finance (...).” – Quotes. It is true that the cold progression is not a gift from citizens, but a tax increase without a legal basis. In reality, from 2016 onwards, taxpayers will be returned €5 billion, which they have been illegally removed since 2009 by the cold progression. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Schelling.]] On the third budgetary speech story – I quote once again Mr. Finanzminister –: “But we also need to consider the impact of laws and regulations in practice and see if the effort is in any way beneficial in relation.” – Quotative. [[Federal Minister Schelling: Well quoted!]] It is true that entrepreneurs are planted with the two regulations on the obligation to register. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] ==References== In January 2016, all companies with annual turnover exceeding €15 000 and annual cash sales exceeding €7500 shall use a register. However, the technical requirements of these registers should not be fixed until the end of the year. An entrepreneur must therefore buy a register for 2016, which may no longer meet the security requirements of the Minister of Finance from 2017 onwards. [[Call the FPÖ: Crazy!]] This is a plantation of entrepreneurs, Mr. Finanzminister! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If one now believes that cash turnover is only the payment by cash that is wrong: The cash turnover also includes payment with banknote and credit card. So, as you can do when you accept payments with the bank card or credit card, I am not aware of it. [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] – Since once again the form of office and the Minister of Finance call this “perceptible simplification and red tape”. [[Abg. Darmann: Unmistakable!]] For the fourth budgetary speech story: Everyone, from the entrepreneur to the apprentice, benefits from this tax reform. – End of the quote. It is true that this tax reform is financed by a long list of anti-entrepreneurship measures, such as extending the depreciation period for buildings, increasing the capital income tax on profit distributions, deposits of GmbHs are made de facto tax impossible, abolishing the education allowance, abolishing the education premium, price increases for business transfers, and so on. For the fifth and last budgetary speech – for lack of speaking time –: The counter-financing of the discharge is solid. - Quote. It is true that the counter-financing of the tax reform is not done by savings, but by tax increases and by re-indebtedness. Sustainable state and administrative reform is not at all addressed, so the problem of expenditure remains unresolved by the Republic of Austria. This budget is not a glamour.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e4709	Next, Mr Magistrate. Rossmann speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e4731	Madam President. Dear Members on the Government Bank! High house! The budget does not really bring any new things at all! This has already been decided in spring, from the ceilings in the expenditure area to the so-called fiscal reform 2016. But one thing I would like to hold down, I take away from the budget speech: There are so many reforms announced there, and that has not been the case since yesterday, that has been the case for many years. I've been through this for many years. Let us take the example of federalism reform, the financial compensation reform! What was it? – Your predecessor, Mr. Finanzminister, has extended the existing financial compensation, which is marked by implementation federalism, by two years and thus postponed the reform. What about the educational reform? - We've been waiting for them for years! And if you say, Mrs Tamandl, that the Minister of Education should deal efficiently with the funds, I would like to say that your group is the one that has been preventing educational reform in the field of school organisation for years on end. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is already so – it is indeed so – that the education sector has been under-financed for years, and this is going to be more from year to year. Whoever claims otherwise simply says the truth and simply not the truth. Today it is more than 340 million €, next year it will probably be 600 million €. Mr Finanzminister and Mr Mitterlehner, where are your answers to the financing of this structural gap in education? I would like to highlight a reform area, Mr Finanzminister, because it is very important to me, these are the new budget rules for countries and communities. I would already like to acknowledge that you, together with the President of the Court of Auditors, have made progress in this respect, but unfortunately you have stopped half way. [[Federal Minister Schelling: That's just wrong, Mr Rossmann!]] - No! – Important areas remain out of place. The medium-term budget is not the subject of VRV, which you will soon be adopted. The municipal associations are outside, there is no result-oriented budgeting. Please, if you don't have all these things, where do you have comparable budgets? And where do you want to compare the budget results – and on that matter – of individual federal states? That's not going to happen! If there is no quality assurance by the Court of Auditors in the rest of the field, you will never have comparable budgets. There's an illusion. This reform, which is supposed to be the core of this budget, is now the tax reform. – Well, reform wasn’t, I think we all agree on that. This was a tariff relief, yes, but reform cannot be mentioned here. As Mr Krainer of the Socialist Group has said very critically, he said that structural reforms in the field of wealth taxation must be addressed. Little happened. He said something had happened in the field of wealth taxation. – In the incomes, yes, in the wealth itself no. If, as part of the counter-financing, you had made a tax-structure reform with the taxation of assets, an inheritance tax, with an eco-social tax reform, then you would not have the problem of non-solid counter-financing today. If you, Mr Finanzminister, have claimed in your budget speech yesterday that the counter-financing of the discharge is solid, I can guarantee you as a merchant – so, I think, was the first sentence of this claim – then I must say that there are you and the government the only ones who claim it. [[Federal Minister Schelling: Wrong quote!]] There are many critical voices from economic research, there are critical voices of the budget service that say this counter-funding is on tone, from self-financing via tax fraud – well, important that there is – but it will not be possible to realize it fully in one year. It won't play. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fekter.]] What about the so-called administrative cost brake, Mr Finanzminister, with which you want to save €1.1 billion? Where are these measures? – I made the effort yesterday to expect a little, and I looked at what it looks like in the activity effort of 2016 and in the business effort. In the activity plus 2.9 percent, in the operating effort plus 8 percent. Now tell me: Where do you want to save €700 million at the 2016 federal government? This is a thing of impossibility! This is not an administrative cost brake, it is an administrative cost turbo that you have here. So you will not be able to represent a solid financing. You will also bite out your teeth in Brussels, as well as trying to reduce the costs for refugees from the structural deficit as a one-time measure. [[Federal Minister Schelling: Were you in Brussels or me?]] – This is not consistent with Brussels. You have been to Brussels, and you have previously fully announced that you will try not to charge these costs on the Maastricht deficit. [[Interference of Federal Minister Schelling.]] Hardly were you in Brussels, have you agreed with Mr Schäuble and all the other finance ministers that this is not a subject for the time being. This is how it looks, and this can be demonstrated by a broadcast by Mr Schäuble's Minister of Finance in this regard. So don't be surprised when you get a blue letter from Brussels once again, but don't write a reply again with fake measures that you don't implement anyway, as in 2015. [[Federal Minister Schelling:... 2014, Mr Rossmann!]] - 2014, yes. However, if the tax reform is really well-financed, then, Mr Vice-Chancellor, unfortunately, it does not look as if you claim that it is a turbo for growth and employment. Let's take the economic research institute's estimates. In the case of scenario one, i.e. with full implementation of counter-financing, the growth effect in 2016 is 0.0 percent, the employment effect is just 1 000 employees. However, this does not come from growth, but from the increase in public consumption. [[Interference of Vice-Chancellor Mitterlehner.]] – Look, I can show you the numbers, so you can read this black on white. [[The speaker presented a document to Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner.]] [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: This has long been...!]] Only if the counter-financing is not fully implemented in 2016 will the cumulative effects be higher until 2019 – then and only then. One thing I would like to add, also to the science budget, because you, Mr Vice-Chancellor, said that much more money is spent there: [[Abg. Rädler: Final word, Mr Rossmann!]] Yes, €160 million more for the universities, that's right, but I can't see anything in the budget report from the reserves resolution you mentioned. And the 2 percent of GDP target will not reach you in the field of tertiary education by 2020, by the way, with the additional expenditure currently being negotiated in the service agreements. The same applies to research, which is also a future area in your eyes. At present, we are 3 percent of GDP, the target being 3.76 percent by 2020. If we continue research at this rate, we will not achieve the goal. Another word: Unemployment is the central problem these days. She'll climb. While the IMF says it will sink, says WIFO, it will continue to rise. Measures against rising unemployment are largely lacking in this budget. I am surprised that this issue is not being taken up more strongly by social democracy. I am also surprised that no stronger recipes are discussed, such as a recovery of economic activity at European level, but not through a junker’s package, but through real investments, and we should finally have a discussion on the possibility of reducing working time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e4881	The next item is the speech by Mr Hable. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e4902	Madam President. High house! Estimated members of the Federal Government! Dear citizens in front of the screens and on the gallery! Today we are discussing the 2016 budget here in the House. Since yesterday, we have heard words from the Federal Government such as “responsibility” and “step in the right direction”, but one thing is clear when looking at this 2016 budget: The current debt policy is continuing. And the continuation of debt policy is not responsible. Since 1962, for two generations, no longer has the Austrian Federal Government been able to present a balanced budget. For over two generations! The result of this debt policy is obvious: Not only do we have debt records, we not only have record unemployment, we also have economic growth on the zero line. The Austrian economy is no longer moving. This debt policy – which shows these facts – has failed! Not only do we say NEOS, but also international experts, such as the renowned IMD Institute, confirm that Austria has crashed from place 11 to place 26 in recent years. On key issues, especially financial and economic policy, a bad witness is issued, for example, in the level of tax burden: the most recent place among 60 countries. Or: With regard to the adaptability of policy to economic challenges, Austria is again the leading among 60 nations. This debt policy has failed. Of course, the question is: What to do? What would really do? Yes, Mr Vice-Kanzler Mitterlehner and also Mr. Federal Minister Hundstorfer have asked the opposition parties to say how to finance their reform proposals, which is not supposed to be possible. Well: In fact, it would be a duty for the Federal Government to say how to invest in the future with a balanced budget, but if you do not manage to strike through these seemingly gordic nodes, I can say that to you. It is also a good NEOS tradition that we not only harshly criticize where it is necessary, but also put solutions on the table. You don't have to look far in the orientation. For example, one only has to look at Germany and see that at a tax rate of 40 percent, Germany is able to present a balanced budget, that Austria will be able to submit a balanced budget at a tax rate, not of 40 percent, but of 45 percent, but will not be able to put new debts in the backpack of young generations each year. That is to say, the problem is, of course, the expenditure structure, which is out of line with the Austrian state. Adjusted per capita, the Austrian state spends €22 billion more than Germany. 22 billion € more, every year! Mr Finanzminister, in the analysis, in terms of tonality, we agree: Austria has an expenditure problem and not a revenue problem. This is also on the first side of the NEOS tax reform programme. [[The speaker keeps a copy up to date.]] It is the expenditure problem that we must address first and how to do this is obvious: In the context of early pensions, we must give pure wine to citizens and make it clear that people cannot retire early on when life expectancy is constantly rising. We must cut in the funding of those billions that are spent in order to satisfy the clients of red and black. We must finally establish federalism efficiently. We need to save on health management, and we need to debureautize the economy. A total of €19 billion can be saved over a period of eight years, that is not to say, universities, that is, research institutes. [[Abg. Brosz:... 6 billion!]] You only have to get these reform concepts out of the drawer, where they have long been inside, where they have been rubbed. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] What could you do with all this money you can save? – One could honestly relieve, make an honest tax reform, without raising taxes on the opposite side. Finally, you could also reduce the additional wage costs. We would suggest that they be reduced by €4 billion to relieve the economy to relieve businesses so that they can invest again so that they can create jobs again – this is incredibly important in times of record unemployment. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz]] Of course, we could also set up Austrian financial policies in line with generation. We could finally allow fairness to prevail toward the young generations. We could finally present balanced budgets. [[Call the Greens.]] We could also invest €3 billion in debt reduction every year, including the NEOS tax reform concept, in order to finally make this debt backpack easier. And – this is the strike of the apparent Gordic knot, Mr. Vice-Chancellor –: In fact, there was still money left. On this basis, we could invest more than €3 billion in the future, in the education of our children – that is also necessary – and all of this on the basis of a sound financial policy. I'd like to make this available to you. Because so much was the talk of football, of the Austrian national team and of what successes it celebrates: These successes are of course also based on a Swiss coach, on a very successful Swiss coach who managed to get the national team on the right track. [[Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek:... refugee children!]] If you don't believe us NEOS, I suggest you're looking for a Swiss coach for the Federal Government – who knows how to do business properly, who knows what reforms you need. And we don't need these reforms at some point, we need them now. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e4981	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e5002	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Yes, exactly 409 days ago, Mr. Finanzminister Schelling was presented here, and I gave him as Vorarlberger, also as a free-thinking person from Vorarlberg, advance lady bears. I told him that the Vorarlberger mentality – creative, creative, husle building – is very positive, and I, as Vorarlberger, am taking it from him now that he will renovate this budget. However, I have now been given the impression that the Minister of Finance has looked too much through the rosary glasses of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, or he has played too long in the East Regional League, as he did yesterday, because – Mr Hable has already mentioned it – this government needed a Swiss coach and we should look over the Rhine. As a Vorarlberger one is very happy to look over the Rhine, one can see what is going on there positively, that the budget in Switzerland is in order, how the labour market policy works, how one can save and how to invest reasonably. [[Interference of Federal Minister Schelling]] By the way, there's someone else you could look away from. Mr Krainer referred to the football team earlier, and since we heard a lot about football yesterday, I have to relax again. There are players like Alaba, Junuzović and so on. Mr. Krainer, these young guys all went to the football academy of Frank Stronach. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Frank Stronach knew in advance how to bring something positive to Austria. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] And then I want to go on... [[Abg. Scherak: All refugees...!]] [[Abg. Brosz:... was a refugee child, the Junuzović!]] [[Abg. Krainer:..., Junuzović was at the GAK!]] – Alaba was definitely there. The point is that you, Mr. Finanzminister, with an economic captain who has built up a billion-dollar business out of nothing, you have mistakenly created many jobs in Austria from which this government has still benefited and can take the lead. I am now giving you this programme, the basic programme of the Stronach team, where there is a super tax system inside, where there is how to do business properly, how to create jobs and how to involve employees in the profit, so that they are motivated. [[Keeping a document in height]] [[Intervening calls from Mr Matznetter and Mr Gisela Wurm]] That is how we do politics, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[The speaker presented the said document to Federal Minister Schelling.]] [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner:... at the Stronach! Do you want to be a clubman? Lugar, he wants to be Klubobmann!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday I received a text from a banker from Vorarlberg, who I know very well, during the speech by the Minister of Finance – Mr Vice-Chancellor now becomes a bit nervous. [[new interim remark by Vice-Kanzler Mitterlehner]] He wrote me the following: The Minister of Finance is funny. It is not supposed to have so much sulphur, but rather to explain why the 600 Court of Auditors' reform proposals are not implemented. And the structural deficit is an absolute nonsensus, these are off-balancing tricks that have already sent large banks to the Nile. [[Abg. Fecter: Of the 600 are...!]] - Quote. [[Abg. Fekter: Don't always tell...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Little.]] Ladies and gentlemen, that says a banker who has to do with matter and who knows himself. And if you don’t believe it to the banker who is from the people and has watched what has been best given here, look at yesterday’s “Small Newspaper ”: “Chills until the Troika comes”. I talked about the child yesterday – in another debate about the jobs that the boys prefer to chill instead of making a teaching – and Franz Schellhorn writes: “You may already have noticed that the ‘structural’ budget deficit is the only thing that has ever been mentioned. That should make you light-heard. Why? Because this term conceals the true financial situation behind a “Hätti-Wari” account”. And that is the point, ladies and gentlemen, on the budget of the Minister for Finance. So I really expected more. Now I would like to address a few details because, for example, security in Austria is of course an important issue. In the budget speech, Mr Finanzminister said that Austria is one of the safest countries in the world, and further: “This is due to the good work of our police officers, who are now (...) doing extraordinary achievements again.” [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Ladies and gentlemen, that is true, and you can only thank these police officers. I myself am on the front, as a police officer who is still on duty, and in view of what I get from my colleagues, how the reward for the police who really have to give her last looks up to me, the gray bears up. In the budget speech it was said: “In the field of interiors, the 2016 estimate is EUR 497.7 million above the 2015 estimate. This has to do with the additional expenditure for the refugees in particular". And then you said you decided for the security package for the executive another €72 million. – Yes, that may be, but I don’t think it really comes to people outside. I heard in the early morning on ServusTV WIFO chief Karl Aigerger, he has literally said – remember now the images of the refugees, when you see the flow of refugees on television, we see mainly women, families and children – and he will know it: 90 percent of refugees are young men who will then reclaim their families. Now we can assume – and I do not say that, Mr Aiginger of the WIFO – that this is causing a terrible additional cost, and I assume that this €72 million for the Executive Security Package is not going to be the executive, where they would be needed urgently, but that this must be reinvested in the refugees. Mr Vice-Chancellor said today that we cannot estimate the cost of this – this is a problem that is going through the whole budget. I would also like to address the Federal Army. They said – it almost took off my shoes –: “The Federal Army receives a special investment package of €96 million for the renewal of equipment.” Not only these devices, which exist there, belong to renewed ones, but to the federal army belongs a lot renewed. These are not just the few vehicles that rust there, but the federal army is really all in the arrogance. That's an investment! For example, if a state like Lithuania has planned to invest 1.2 percent of GDP in the military, then we need to take a look at it, because we are 0.5 percent, ladies and gentlemen. That's where you see what safety is worth. For nothing, it is not that the officer company Vorarlberg sends out a letter and collects signatures: “Stop the German army-certification – for a safe Austria!” A citizens' initiative has now been set up, and they write how massively the security suffers, how massively the federal army is undermined. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nice to meet you.]] I believe that this would be good investment in the security that would really benefit the entire population. We have a lot to do. If we hear that half the budget is in social expenditure, we know where the cock is crowing or where it is going. There you may have to consider where you could save there and see if investments there are useful or not. You need to look at that better, you can save a lot. As I said, The Court of Auditors has proposed 600 points, look at them, then you don't have to do much anymore – and our programme, please! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e5183	Mr Schelling has now spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e5205	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to comment on a few points that have been raised here. First on the subject of culture. If there were no more €15 million to be spent in the cultural budget, because it had run out, and we add €15.5 million, that is known to be an increase, because otherwise we would have reduced it by €15 million. [[Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek:... it's less!]] As far as you can understand this, that would be all right. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek: Now it is lower than before!]] The second point, very briefly: Mr. Lugar, if you're already quoting, then right. I said: We have the best health system, but we also have the highest health costs. In 2016, this has an impact on the budget increase of €86.1 million. – So what you quoted was certainly not correct, but be it as it may be! Of the €86 million, €60 million go to the decided free gears. It was addressed to Germany – thank you for the note! It is better because there were massive interventions and reforms just ten years ago. And since I asked yesterday that we urgently need these reforms, I would like to point out something: I am not 41 years of Finance Minister of the Republic; even if you, Mr Lugar, perhaps consider it desirable, I will not experience it anymore. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kogler.]] But one thing is clear: that within the shortest time, not even within a year, we have called for what you have here at my first appearance in Parliament together with the NEOS – bring the VRV on track! –, have done it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lugar]] She's on track. Mr Rossmann, please speak to the management of the budget service. I was confirmed yesterday that what the Budget Service has proposed was 100% incorporated into the regulation and was therefore an essential step. And that is not a question of whether 41 years has been negotiated, but of whether we now have the conditions for making these comparabilitys. In the field of education, we have had fifty discussions over years, long before my time, that the problem with the education budget is not to be solved through more money, but through reforms. Everyone comes up with the idea: When you pump more money into the system, the system gets better. This has not proved successful so far, so we have been trying for years to implement appropriate reform measures there. I would also like to draw your attention to this issue in this House: It is of course true that the Minister of Finance is presenting the budget, but the implementation of the budget is the responsibility of the respective department. This is an important prerequisite for the question of how we deal with the funds and where they arrive. Our aim is to ensure that these additional funds in the field of education are in fact sufficient, because we are now eliminating the old burdens through a supplementary budget to be decided upon. At some point, however, we have to start putting in place measures to ensure that we have a clear budget structure. For this, education reform will be essential, and I hope that this educational reform will look so good for our children and for our grandchildren, that there is a good school system and that it will not be discussed whether the money is sufficient or not. Mr. Fuchs, with all due respect, but if you create yourself here with your knowledge and your know-how and spread targeted disinformation, I am sure that if I ever go back to my private life, I will not be sure if I would take you as an advisor. [[Abg. Haider: Hey, hey, hey!]] [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nice.]] We've had a lot of work in the past year... [[Abg. Fuchs: Give examples! Where are the examples, Mr. Finanzminister...!]] – Yes, for example, the topic with the registers! Look You agree with the corresponding regulation we are negotiating with the Chamber of Commerce, then you must withdraw the statement you have made here now! [[Mr Schimanek and Mr Fuchs: they're not here yet!]] [[Abg. Haider:... totally refreshed...!]] Mr Haider, I'll be right back to you. You have addressed the beautiful Switzerland. Quite honest: I do not want the state of growth in Switzerland. The Swiss currently have huge problems because they have fallen from a planned growth of 2.2 percent to less than 0.5 percent due to the Franken problem. Of course we can... [[Call the FPÖ:Always more than Austria!]] – No, that’s not true, but that’s something you can read about the economic researchers. Because the statements of the economic researchers are always doubted, I ask you: Then what else should we go back to? And because the criticism of the counter-financing of the tax reform is constantly coming here, I refer to Mr Schratzenstaller, who said: Every budget has uncertainties, but if it does, it is solidly financed. That's the statement that was made. [[Between-call of the Abg. Rossmann.]] – Mr Rossmann, you will have to take note of this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Rossmann, if you are a soothsayer and know what the Commission will decide, even though you have never spoken to the Commission, I say, congratulations! It will not be enough, however, to act as a soothsayer, but to achieve something with the Commission requires tough talks and negotiations. [[Abg. Rossmann:... not consistent with the Commission!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] – Mr Rossmann, don’t stand here and say so! I spoke to the Commission, you certainly are not! [[Abg. Rossmann:... Talk is not a promise!]] – Wait You are simply referring to the outcome of these discussions, before you abuse any facts that are not at all true. [[Call at the ÖVP – towards the Abg. Rossmann –:Wahrsager]] It was never, Mr Rossmann, to mention the Maastricht deficit. The Commission has never discussed the Maastricht deficit with regard to the refugees. [[Abg. Rossmann: Growth Pact!]] It was discussed whether one-time costs for 2016 could be calculated from the structural deficit. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler]] To this end, there is a provision in the Stability and Growth Pact that this should be taken into account in the event of disasters. I have made this request to the Commission. The Commission has to decide. We sent our budget to the Commission yesterday. I'm still paying attention to something: They are standing out here and have spread to budget 2014: will never work! - zero deficit. You said 2015 in every budget committee: it won't work! – It will work. [[Abg. Brosz: Has the education budget kept in recent years?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rossmann.]] And that's why, if you've already done a divination, it's someday to say: Whoever is telling the truth must prove the prophecies too! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr Haider, I am very sorry that an educated Member of this House cannot distinguish between the proposal for funding and the proposal for results. [[Abg. Haider:... comes the insult!]] Please read the budget report! - No, you didn't. [[Abg. Haider: Hello, I've distinguished!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schimanek.]] You have claimed that the deficit does not amount to €5 billion, but €10 billion. [[Abg. Haider: In the final budget!]] Read here in the budget report, please read pages 31 and the following on which it is explained that this is not even a financing expenditure. [[Abg. Haider:... on page 31, that's your guv! I said that too!]] Between the earnings budget and the financing budget there are also expenses that are not eligible for funding, because we are planning expenses in the long term, because we are setting up value adjustments, which are always necessary. [[Abg. Haider:... didn't say anything else!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schimanek.]] I am against the fact that a Member of this House is producing and saying that the deficit is €10 billion. [[Abg. Haider: That's your guv, that's what you've got in it yourself!]] You said that. Read the pages 31 and the following, then you will understand all of this quite clearly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schimanek.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, to conclude: I have on the occasion that I was in office for a year to refrain from saying what we have been doing this year. I also say: There has been a lot of very busy and also very unpleasant things moved when I think about what we have been doing this year in the area of the crisis that you have triggered with Hypo and HETA in Carinthia, when we look at the fact that we have presented a financial framework which has been accepted by both the Commission and Parliament, that we have delivered the tax reform properly and at the appropriate time that we have reached the VR that has been negotiated for decades, that we have set up a financial compensation that is being negotiated in the light of a new methodology, or that we are now in the process of financial transaction tax, which would have long since been out of the table without the support of Austria and our Presidency, and are trying to install it. I therefore believe that it can be seen that we have now also created a solid budget which is now available for treatment in this House. Of course, I understand the criticism in many areas. What else is the opposition to do? However, the proposals that have been made so far are not suitable for creating a budget other than that which I presented yesterday.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e5556	Mr Dr. Fuchs has now come to speak of an actual correction. You are aware of the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e5580	Mr President. The Minister of Finance has said that my statements on the registration obligation are not right and that I would have carried out targeted disinformation. On the contrary, it is true that the register security regulation has not yet been published in the Bundesgesetzblatt, which will only take place during this or the next year. That is, those who buy a register now do not know what security requirements they need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e5612	Mr Katzian. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e5633	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! In recent days, weeks and months, it has come a little in fashion to look for guilty people for things that don't run as some imagine, and, in particular, the social partners have been increasingly called guilty, because they are blocked and not modern. [[Abg. Haider: The SPÖ!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hagen]] There are some Members who are now also making calls, of which I have honestly expected nothing else anyway. It's just the envy, because you've never been there, but just keep going! [[Abg. Hagen: No, I'm not jealous!]] Then there are others – like the presidents of the Industrial Union – in which I already think they should think well about what they get instead if they want social partnership on the dumps of history. You, Mr Finanzminister, made this quite different yesterday in your charming way. They meant that the social partners should be part of the solution and not part of the problem. Yes, then, let us distinguish who is part of the solution and who is part of the problem! The problems we face in the social partners are going to be one of one another. We don't need any calls either. [[Abg. Peter Worm:... Shadow Government!]] The fact is, there are different interests, and fact is even if interests are different, one must try to negotiate this or carry it out differently. If someone does not want social partnership, then he should say what he wants instead and how conflicts of interest or differences of interest should be carried out in the future. I just want to say that so that someone does not mean yes if we had known that, we would not have been so attached to the social partners. I would like to say to the workers in the social partners that we have always tried very hard not only to look at their interests but also the whole thing. The tax reform is a good example of this because we have not only achieved a relief of workers, not only more tax justice, but also because, with regard to the whole thing, we also ensure that purchasing power increases and that tax reform, by increasing purchasing power, in turn, has a positive impact on economic development and, as we hope, on jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, trade unions and workers' chambers are part of the solution in this country when, at eye-to-face and with respect, they talk and negotiate with each other and when the solutions are designed in such a way that workers benefit from them respectfully through announced or threatened reforms do not stay on track. Then you will always have a partner in us. If you do not want to do so, let the situation escalate deliberately, and what such a situation may look like, then all those who will have to answer for it will have to do. We are on the social partners. We also insist that it also takes time to negotiate and discuss some things, but if any balcony muppets call us again and again, we should walk on the garbage piles of history, then this is not beneficial to the whole. They provoke a situation that we at least do not want. Everyone who does this should think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e5706	Next speaker: Mr Auer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e5727	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Katzian, I am forwarding that I very much appreciate the social partners, as you know, because I consider them important. But I already have a request: If you are annoyed as a social partners, you must also accept that other institutions or the government are begging your calls. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] I would therefore ask that we solve the problems in joint positive cooperation – they are big enough. But again: I appreciate the social partners. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Hagen said today that he was not sure whether the €72 million of the security package would be available to police officers. Simple: He just needs to decide the budget, and then they get there! Quite simply, ladies and gentlemen! I am already looking forward to what Mr Hagen's voting behaviour will be and how he will behave if it is so far in a few weeks when we decide on this budget here in Parliament. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it's a rather law: The budget is cast in figures policy. It shows the direction. It's the signpost where the way goes. The fact that solid state finances are an indispensable basis for sustainable and positive economic development and social stability in that country is undisputed. Of course you can and should also light and question one or the other. Of course! This is also the task of Parliament – not only the opposition, but also the task of Parliament as a whole. But if in times like this – and we have times of crisis that have been addressed – we are able to establish a tax reform of over €5 billion solid, then the positive aspects should also be taken into account, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Moser: The “solid” is...!]] And if in times like this, despite a tax reform of over €5 billion, a structural deficit of 0.5 percent of GDP can be met, then this should also be maintained, ladies and gentlemen. If you are critically illuminating the costs in various areas and if the Federal Minister of Finance is expressly holding yesterday, the safeguarding of future pensions must be important to us, then it is also important to ensure the excellent health facilities in Austria – and in these two areas we are clearly world leaders. You should hold that clearly once. Show me another country where there are pensions at this height, in this security and in combination with this low age of arrival – there we have a problem! That's easy to say that everything is changed, but tell a 58-year-old or 59-year-old today, starting next year the pension is due to start at 63 or 64! We must secure these expenditures in the medium term and in the long term and give people safety. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I should also like to add a few points from the point of view of agriculture: It is important to ensure that in rural areas the fast data highway, the fast Internet is available. Therefore: Thank you to the Federal Minister for the first tranche of the broadband offensive, because this is important not only for industry and for households, but also for rural agriculture. It is also important to note that we today are able to produce excellent quality, ladies and gentlemen, and it is therefore also important that the budget for agriculture and forestry is secured, pointing out that no single cent has to be left in Brussels, but that every cent is picked up. Especially the strengthening of the Austrian family businesses must be important to us, because the advertising with the hopping pig is too little. The fact is that farmers also have to go to the stable every Saturday, Sunday and holiday in the morning and evening and produce excellent Austrian quality that can be seen. I am therefore also grateful that we are getting an export service site because it is important to be able to export this Austrian quality – not mass, but quality. It's remarkable: The economy is rightly proud of export production, we are rightly proud that six out of ten jobs are secured by exports, but if agriculture exports, it says: Surplus. [[Abg. Pirklhuber:... Industry, colleague Auer, not agriculture! The dairies...!]] Then it always says: surplus; the negative word surplus. In agriculture too, jobs are secured in the supranational and downstream sectors, and we should confess to them, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Pirklhuber, I don't think your museum garden ideas are too few. The farmers want to produce and not just be museum gardeners.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e5834	Next speaker: Mr Themessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e5855	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear viewer! Mr Klubobmann Arbitrators have compared Mr Finanzminister's budget speech with the mountain climb, but what he has forgotten: [[Abg. Moser: Not the budget speech, but the work on the budget!]] The first thing you need to know when climbing the mountain is which mountain you climb. When Mr Klubobmann Arbitrators believe that the Federal Government has accumulated over the past few years due to all the unresolved problems, then he needs the oxygen bottle that he has promised to colleagues Kickl, well and gladly. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] When I heard yesterday the first page of Mr Finanzminister's speech, I thought: Self-knowledge is the first way to improve! I have been in this House for nine years now and have a big goal in every budget speech, as a condition for a budget to work and be properly created, provided that one has to admit the truth to oneself once so that one can even talk about a problem solution. You can't keep talking something beautiful that just isn't nice. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If the Minister of Finance said yesterday, not all recognize the signs of the time, there are still many people, especially politicians hiding behind the truth, then I wonder: [[Abg. Darmann: He must know!]] That means, in turn, that this federal government, which has now been in office for over eight years, has always been hiding behind the truth over the past few years! That means you've been talking about things that didn't actually exist. That's what I thought, after that doesn't look so bad. If you look at the entire 26 pages of your budget speech, you have to realize that there are loud things that we have been calling for innumerable requests for years. “The funding environment for Austrian companies is difficult.” – But we already know this for longer than the 409 days that the Federal Minister is in office! “The high tax and tax burden is damaging the location and hindering our competitiveness.” – We have been talking about this for nine years since I was in this House. I remember, Minister Schelling has been since I was a Member – Molterer, Pröll, Fekter... – the fifth Minister of Finance, and all finance ministers have said so far that the tax rate is too high, we are over 40 percent, it has to be lower. [[Abg. Lightenecker: Spindelegger!]] Now, despite tax reform, we are still 44 percent, and an improvement is not in sight. “The overwhelming bureaucracy takes air from our businesses.” – Mr Finanzminister, we know that for longer than the 409 days you are in office! This has been known by these Federal Governments and by the delegates here for over eight years since this red and black federal government existed. The reduction in additional labour costs is suddenly a topic. “Austria specifically relieves relief – impulses for the future”, “targeted, massive relief of taxpayers”, “less bureaucracy for citizens”, then the thousands to whom everyone is relieved: We're still waiting for the Ederer-Tausender! Now there will be a second, then there will probably soon be the two thousand! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] “Austria has an expenditure problem, no revenue problem” – your predecessor Spindelegger has always said so, so we have known that for over 409 days, and so it continues, “Save with ourselves”. What really surprised me very much by this Minister of Finance was the fact that he did not mention the unsubsidy with any single word. We know that in Austria subsidies of over €17 billion are distributed, and there are huge savings potential. One does not mention this with a single word, and in total, only one is to be said, and I conclude by saying: This budget speech is nothing more than a statement of bankruptcy by the Federal Government of the last eight years. We have known all the demands in there for eight years, and this federal government has now confirmed to us in writing what it has not done for eight years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e5939	Next speaker: Mr Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e5961	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker has now practiced general criticism – should be. In principle, too, our group is relatively disappointed by the contributions made by the Minister of Finance, along with the various points. I myself still try it the other way around: From my point of view, Minister Schelling is still the most ambitious one we have ever had in some areas, but you can see that the air goes out, it goes down, because perhaps he himself is held back by his own party or party at the federal level, but with certainty at the country level. If we are already debating the budget, expenditure and revenue – as far as the expenditure side is concerned: we are never closing up there; this has something to do with so-called reforms – then let us take a brief look at how the conflict lines are going regularly, and let us stop – we have not invented it! – once again the picture of the Austrian national football team, which is also a bit enjoyable. By the way, I would like to include Marcel Koller in such a way that, although he is Swiss, he thinks very sublime and far-reaching, and if you listen to him and talk to him, you can see that he is certainly a European thinker and designer, whether it be in football. This is obviously a good condition. Obviously, he has also recognized that the half Austrian national team has migration background, and can do something about it accordingly. We should then consider this in the budget chapter – or go through many chapters – if suddenly and from my point of view perversely in the context of war refugees only cost positions appear. The problem, however, has caused others, and they have to explain themselves. But let us stick to the football comparison and come to the downfalls of the Austrian real constitution: If the Federal Minister – even more than the Chancellor and the Vice Chancellor – tries something on the field for a long time, he has a problem. We're all sitting in the stadium, he's making his strategy, he's sending the team to the field – and then there's always people out of the field, and that's the country leaders again and again. It's better thanks to green government participations, but it's not good enough yet. [[Abg. Peter Worm: Where will it be better? Where?]] – Well, it’s about what a failure, a healthy, a real federalism, is about following a true principle of subsidiarity, and where it’s all about celebrating primitive power-keeping rituals, but which actually do cause enough damage in reality, because they cause unnecessary costs. We are particularly concerned with expenditure and with reforms. All I say is that it is always observable that ambitious federal politicians are prevented from taking massive action on the part of the national conference or similar events. Sometimes one has the feeling that the federal policy must go after with the Cornerfahndl, but not about an offensive attack policy. Where does this take place? – In health policy; and this is not about shortening benefits or anything else, but about how we can and should implement as reasonably as possible what we want to offer. There is still enough lost with these nonsenses, which we maintain here in Austria – especially the Minister of Finance who comes from this area – and that is a relatively little going on. You have to be allowed to say, that's the way it is. But this is about long-term prospects, not just about this budget, that's right. It is similar with the school problems mentioned; apart from having a huge hole in the educational budget. Similarly, it is still – but that doesn't matter at all at all at all at all at all – in the completely uncoordinated economic promotion. What this loses in money, so we would look at it once to keep these things together. I look at how the Minister of Finance is torpedoed by individual national leaders who are their financial advisers – that they may even be called so, Mr Sobotka! – presend and torpedo the hypo solutions when it comes to whether you should pay 8 to 10 billion in total or participate in the creditors once and for all, plus/minus – gross, I say. If someone finally does something after all generations of finance ministers and government leaders have failed, then it will fall into the arms as well as they can. - And the match is open. We'll hear this afternoon how complicated it is. It is also not all for the best with the Bayern comparison and what still follows. But the first step to say that we are once making a payment stop so that not always the federal government as a taxpayer comes along has been attacked by whom? – From parts of the federal states. The match is still open, and – because we are talking about the budget – it is still about many billions. It's been forgotten. I wonder – obviously, there is already a certain excess – that you can be so surprised about the subject in a budget debate! But then we'll discuss it in the afternoon. There's nothing in the race at all, there's not everything in the dry. I am once glad that we have this payment stop, but much further we are not yet thanks to this often very unskilled country policy and this argumentation. We have already argued about this before. When I listen to Mr Sobotka, it seems to me that these are the calculations of St. Pölten's children's fascism, which he celebrates, and not really worthy of a finance council. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with greens and NEOS.]] If we look at the revenue side, it is to be said that we have a problem with the tax reform, of course: that it is too little employment in relation to what it has in terms of volume – Mr Rossmann has done it – and that the structure of the tax system is not changed. We are somewhere in the OECD comparison. Usually everyone is always running around with these comparison tables – there they would be right. We have a massive structural problem. The inheritance tax is necessary if we are to be able to relieve ourselves elsewhere, especially where it is good for jobs, for example in the field of labour costs, both for workers and, yes, Mr Haubner, for entrepreneurs. The concept is known to you. Finally, a brief personal outrage: I feel it – I have already mentioned it – is very strange if we have a debate here in the context of the budget on the refugees of war, but there, where we have been sluggish for years and decades, almost nothing goes on again. Col. Windbüchler-Souschill will do this. As far as development cooperation and all the other donations are concerned, which would have to do with the fact that we have been able to help more locally for years now – now that everyone has to do something about Syria – we have already shown in the relevant EU bodies in 2012 that nothing goes on, but that, contrary to all the announcements, not even a euro will be loosened. I find this disgraceful and hypocritical.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e6017	Next word: Mr Mag. Vavrik. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e6039	Mr President. High house! Dear Members of the Government! I am allowed to follow Mr Kogler's comments and to cut the triangle budget refugee crisis EZA – the EZA was also mentioned by Clubobfrau Glawischnig in short – because this is very important to us NEOS. The refugee problem has disappeared a little from the headlines in the newspapers because the elections are over, but the problem is still there. There were 7 000 refugees in Nickelsdorf yesterday. [[Abg. Unbelievable! This information is suppressed!]] It is expected that next year the number of refugees will not move in the hundreds of thousands, but in the millions – this news comes from UNHCR – and that is, huge challenges of social, security, fiscal and political nature come to us. This is partly taken into account in the budget. The Federal Minister has estimated 910 million to finance this. We believe that this will probably not be enough, but he has meant that the taxpayer is the truth – in some areas obviously rather in disciples. What we have missed, however, are financial measures, put in budgets, which also tackle and attack the situation on the spot, in the countries of origin and in the first host countries. There is more or less consensus on the issue of the refugee crisis: that the problem should be resolved in the countries of origin. If there is half-peace in these countries, half the ordinary living conditions are given, then people do not have to get on the way at all. Unfortunately, Austria is sparse in this respect, and that is a pity, because the money is very, very well invested there. I would just like to mention – I got it from UNICEF – what can be done with money on the spot: UNICEF is able to obtain 167,000 € of teaching material for 400 teachers and school materials for 40,000 children for one year. Other example: With €90 000, UNICEF can obtain vaccines against polio for 200 000 children. – Just to mention examples. That is, with every euro that is invested there, we save €9, which we later have to spend in the form of symptom control here in Austria. The question now arises: What is Austria doing? What has Austria done so far? – I have considered Austria’s contributions to the World Food Programme as an example because the World Food Programme had to cut its aid in the refugee camps around Syria at the beginning of the year and is one of the reasons for the wave of refugees. People are going so badly there that they try to get away from us a second time. Austria, with its contributions to the World Food Programme, is 65. Place with – cumulated in the last five years – € 5.5 million, at €65. Put it! Ireland: 107 million, Switzerland: 310 million, Sweden: 475 million; so what Sweden is doing is about a hundred times what Austria is doing. – Only as an example; there is urgent need for re-examination. Unfortunately, I have only one point in yesterday's budget speech: The foreign disaster aid fund will be increased from € 5 million to € 20 million. It's just... it's... it's... it's... it's... The Federal Minister has meant that if a reform is introduced, the extent of the first step is not important, but the direction. So this is a step in the right direction, but it is a very small step. I don't see anything else. The alleged increase in the bilateral EZA budget is a major increase. Only the planned reduction for 2016. The bilateral EZA budget is stagnating at just over €70 million. What is absolutely necessary – and we are always waiting for it, Mr. Federal Minister; I will extend it to him later by OTS – is the famous stage plan, so that Austria finally reaches the 0.7 percent of GDP. Austria has recently committed itself to reaching the goal by 2030. It's 15 years up to then, we need 15 relatively small steps to achieve that. It would be nice if we could see the first step towards that. It is finally time for this stage plan to be presented. There was also a motion for a resolution here in this House in May, which calls for this. Actually, this should not be necessary, we are here to pass laws and control the government, and not to ask the government to simply work and implement its own plans, because that is also part of the government plan. Mr Federal Minister, once again: We expect the level plan, which would establish by law that Austria will finally increase its contribution to official development cooperation to 0.7 percent of GDP, so that a local contribution can also be made in order to limit the flow of refugees at the source. Madam Minister of the Interior, I can give this to you, perhaps you can pass it on to colleagues Schelling! This is the GLOBALE RESPONSIBILITY plan, perhaps it is a first building block with which he can continue to work and give us results soon. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e6081	Next word: Mrs Ing. Dietrich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e6105	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Klubobmann At the beginning of the debate, Schieder compared the budget with a mountain tour. I think this comparison is very striking, because, as an opposition party, sometimes one really feels that this government is in the fog. This government does not see the essential problems that are there: demographic development, debt, the preservation of the social state, pensions. This government takes care of those areas that affect each individual directly in the future and even now. If a mountain tour is already spoken of, I wonder: How high is the mountain we climb? – If we talk about the debt mountain, it has an altitude like never before. We're talking about 296 billion. 296 billion, ladies and gentlemen, it will be 2016! This is a debt of 86.5 percent of GDP. It'd have to wake us up. Or do we talk about a small mountain, comparable to the Burgenische Geschriftenstein, 884 meters – that is the highest mountain there, but a low mountain from Styria’s point of view – of a low mountain? – When it comes to reforms, we are talking about looking at where we really have problems and having the courage to address these problems and to address reforms. [[Abg. Brunner: This is our highest mountain!]] [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Ladies and gentlemen! On a mountain tour, however, you also have to consider exactly what loads you impose, because you also have to estimate the load to make the whole thing. And if we are now discussing the refugee issue that we have, then we must say: We are not infinitely taxable! We have borders as a social state and we have a duty to our citizens to adopt these borders. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The economy creates jobs – we have discussed this several times in this area. The economy creates jobs, the economy generates the money we need to distribute so that we can afford to this welfare state of Austria. In this budget, I really miss incentives for young people to become independent. This budget, which is the key to the registration of registers, is designed to move young entrepreneurs to stop and return to an employee relationship. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Listen to me.]] I'm telling you, this is really a confusion that I've never experienced before. This is not my assessment, but the Chamber of Commerce Chief Leitl, who is not anyone in the economy, calls for a shift to 2017. He says that practical implementation is not yet possible, because it is not yet possible, because it is not yet defined. The government is burdening entrepreneurs by having to pay €1,000 to millions for these registers, but we still do not know what the technical equipment is supposed to be. I'm telling you, this is a cutback for entrepreneurs. Ladies and gentlemen! Not only Business Chamber Chief Leitl, also Chief Economic Chamber Josef Herk from Styria says that this is a register lotto because the entrepreneurs do not know whether they have bought the right device or have to buy or retrofit a new one – a cut-off for the entrepreneurs! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] This is going on with the financial police. In the “Economic Sheet” it was read that not even a tax advisor is able to complete these 16 pages in the examination of the register. And that's where this government is talking about red tape and simple system?- Oh, my God! I'll tell you: You lost any credibility with me! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I conclude with a quote: It is high time to stop worrying our country, our entrepreneurs, the middle class, the families and the farmers, because when the entrepreneurs go, the unemployed remain. You won't believe who this quote is from?! – It is from Reinhold Mitterlehner. One would think that someone sitting in the government wants to implement what he says, but the current budget shows us that words and actions are miles away from each other. The Bible rightly quotes them by their deeds!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e6175	Next word: Mrs Mag. Grossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e6197	Mr President. Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! I can now lead you from mountains and football fields thoughtfully into Austria's classroom. The future of a country is written in classrooms because the skills and skills of the people are our most valuable and most important resource. Thus, every euro spent on education is well-established money, an investment in our common future. This is what I would like to put forward when we talk about the educational budget. To this end, the expansion of the educational budget is a vital step in which many valuable measures can be continued: the qualitative and quantitative expansion of all day school forms, the New Secondary School with the team teaching, the Modular upper level New, the educational education New – that is, much that has now been started – adult education – it is possible to re-acquire free of charge education – including education, initially in model regions, hopefully soon Austria-wide, covering the whole area, and much more. This, of course, also needs appropriate resources to be provided responsibly. – So a most necessary step. However, it has also been a very necessary step that the structural deficit, which was covered by the structural gap in education, was initially covered for 2015 because this gap has been opened up by many jointly agreed measures such as the team coaching in the New Secondary School, but also other measures, valuable measures, the reduction of the maximum number of students. All of this has so far not been sufficiently budgetaryly covered by the Ministry of Finance, and it has always been a trembling party to get a corresponding educational budget on the line. However, I hope and expect long-term security of educational expenditure, because that is what we owe to the future. Of course, reforms are also necessary. The Education Reform Commission, the Ministry, all of us are working on it on high-speed tours, and, of course, the children, the pupils and students must be at the heart of it and not any interests of standing and power. It's all written in the main book. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] It is true that the Minister for the Interior is present, and I would ask you to give your attention to the persons and organizations close to your group. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e6248	The next item is the speech by Mr Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e6269	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The Minister of Finance stressed yesterday in his budget speech that we must set up a budget under difficult conditions. The effects of the economic crisis are still present. This crisis is already seven years old and, unfortunately, economic growth is not the way we imagine it, and we too have discussed unemployment sufficiently yesterday. I'm sure we have some things to do. Moreover, the loss of confidence of entrepreneurs, investors and, of course, the population is still being lost. Summa summarum: a difficult starting point for creating this budget. It is precisely this, ladies and gentlemen, that is also our chance. WIFO has presented a paper that will increase growth next year. We'll have 1.4 percent growth. The IMF speaks of 1.6% growth. This brings us closer to the EU section, and this is quite optimistic, and from these points of view, the three main points presented yesterday by the Minister of Finance are certainly correct. First: The targeted massive discharge of taxpayers with the collective reform will bring more net of gross and will thus strengthen purchasing power. I believe that this is a very essential point, because if we have a stronger purchasing power, we will also boost growth and thus provide the necessary impetus, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The second important thing is that despite rising pension costs and stressed labour market situation, the budget presents an orderly budget for 2016. It is true that, of course, we need to focus on reforms here – and this has also been stressed – because, if we want to present a corresponding budget in 2017, it will be essential that we put these projects on the rails, otherwise we cannot guarantee that we will be able to present an orderly budget in 2017. So: We need action, and this was clearly defined yesterday by the Minister of Finance. There is a very central focus on yesterday's boost for growth and employment in the budget speech. We heard: Increase in the research premium from 10 to 12 percent, which is an important point. We have many great companies in Austria that invest in and support research, and these companies also cooperate with many small and medium-sized companies. This is a unique win-win situation. It is also worth mentioning that the housing initiative, which concerns the creation of 10,000 new dwellings, also provides the necessary impetus for the construction industry, which is also a very important factor in ensuring employment. To say this, as an entrepreneurship representative, it is also very important to me – I said it yesterday – that: This is why it is very important that we also set up measures to strengthen the economy. This is a very important point, and there is a very important point in the announced additional wage reduction of €1.3 billion. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kitzmüller.]] I ask the Minister of Finance to implement this point as soon as possible, because this is also very important for the mood in the economy, because, as we know, mood is a very important factor and should not be underestimated in the motivation for investment. For the trade, of course, we want the craftsman bonus, which is an essential measure in order to regain a corresponding impetus in the trade, which currently has a light delle. If we want to go back to the top – and we definitely want to do so – then we have to keep this path iron. The path to the top requires an iron will, a lot of creativity and a consistent implementation. I think we're on the right track with this budget. And the budget speech – the Minister of Finance has said it – has also been an appeal to implement the reforms. I'm all trying to play an active part in this.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e6346	Next speaker: Mr Zanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e6367	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Budgetary speech 2015 – one could also say, as a subtitle: Old-known, new phrases and admission. New phrases that manifest themselves in statements such as “the sleeves of highly lame Austrians”. Now we know that our citizens are never lying on the lazy skin, are diligent people, always curling the sleeves up, but they are now also used to having to let down their pants before that government. An admission can be found on the first page of the budget speech: “The truth is reasonable to men. It is our duty to give pure wine to the people.” At the top of the budget speech says: “The word is true, ” and it was spoken on 14 May. October 2015, and that implies that until that day the truth was not reasonable to people and that people were obviously given ingredients other than pure wine. I do not want to take the word “lye” into the mouth now, but in all cases it means that the truth has been changed, bent, bent, concealed. Finally, one who says that. Well, you can count that up once if someone says the truth. Otherwise, a lot of old-fashioned ones can be found in this budget speech. The objectives set out above are as follows: The government must have solid budgets. – Well, that’s actually a matter of course! That you have to say such a thing is not necessary, we hear it all the time. But nothing has been done so far. And here's what it says: The goal is also to “bring Austria back to growth. ” – We have known for many, many years that we have to do this. Here's also: “Responsible for Austria”. And: That's what this government has been doing for many years. She takes responsibility for the children and for the grandchildren, and she takes responsibility far beyond the next election. – But not to be noticed until now! That is why I am also critical when I hear that this should be the case at once. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We hear about declining competitiveness, because we have to bear high tax and tax burdens. We hear of excessive bureaucracy. And for the first time, there's something specific about the budget speech. A very specific objective has been set by the Minister of Finance regarding the Court of Auditors' proposals, which he has said or written, that 50 percent of the Court's proposals should be implemented by the end of 2016. There were 599 proposals made by the Court of Auditors. We will then look at this at the end of next year, and the Minister of Finance can then address 599 questions. As I said, we will then see how far he has actually come with the implementation. I would be pleased if it were actually to be implemented, but as I said, we will also control it. In his budget speech, the Minister of Finance also reports on many conversations with people he conducted during his activity when he was on his way to Austria. I'm just wondering who he was talking to. In most cases he was seen in photographs with the gentlemen from the Economic Federation or with the gentlemen of the Farmers' Federation who stood next to him and heard what the Minister of Finance gave of himself. Perhaps they have dropped some critical word, but in total they are probably more likely to be crawled back to crosses. I would like to draw your attention to the real concerns of citizens by means of a few examples: The company ASB, a project company of the Federal Ministry of Social Affairs, was commissioned to prepare budget advice for low-income families. I got myself some very interesting data. For example, it is said – in principle, the Social Ministry itself – that a couple household or a single parent household with a child, for example a single mother with a child, has a fixed monthly expenditure of around €2,000. – These are not figures from me, I didn’t invent them, but that’s what the ministry says. The Ministry also says that, for example, a couple with a child have fixed monthly expenses of €2,772. – That’s not what I invented, but that’s what the ministry says. Now I wonder, and I also ask you: What single mother with a child earns €2,000 a month? Which worker who has a woman looking at the child at home deserves €2,770? My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, I think you have lost one thing: the relation to reality! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now I come closest to what moves the Austrians: the costs for the refugees. In an APA report from yesterday, it says – not invented by me –: “A refugee costs 10 724 euros per year.” – Well, we compare that to the salary of a single mother with a child. [[Abg. Scherak: This is much less than you always say!]] But these are only the official costs that are explained. In his budget speech, the Minister of Finance has also spread a little on the subject of refugees. He said that basic supply costs, integration costs and labour market costs were already known. What is more, of course, is that countries also have to get into the bag. The APA writes that by 0.1 percent the countries may deviate from the Stability Pact. That means another €345 million will be added, and that's why we're already at a billion. These people who come into our country also have numerous questions, such as: How does her health look? What do the appointed doctors, the Red Cross and the nurses cost? What is the cost of using the executive officers who accompany the refugees, but who are very likely to have to make foreign police recordings? What's the cost that interpreters need? – I think that all these are hidden costs, of which we know nothing exactly yet, but that is what the citizens are interested! There is a calculation of the ministry from September, which states that the use of the executive for ten days should cost € 13.8 million. Now you're expecting that, please, for a year. We have half a billion euros to add, and then we are already 1.5 billion euros. I really don't want to know what's going on here. There is a secret paper that speaks of €12 billion by 2019, and that means that it is not true. I mean, Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go. Let's just think about what else can be added to what's still on it! So I think we're not going to be that far, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now we know there are transit refugees and there are asylum seekers in Austria, but at present we do not know how many they really are. We know that there will be some who will receive asylum status. The question is: How long will this asylum status apply then? Is it really true that if there is no more asylum grounds, these people leave Austria and return to their homes? – I would like to know all of this, because it all means follow-up costs, ladies and gentlemen, too. One point is particularly moving me: What happens to those people who do not receive asylum status? How long do these people stay in Austria without a legal basis? – I would like to know that too. And I would also be interested in what it costs. And because it's always said these people will go home again: Let us look at the average income of those countries from which most asylum seekers come to our country. In Austria we have an average annual gross income of approximately €38 000 per capita, in Iran this is €3 824, in Syria €2 705, in Afghanistan €487 and in Eritrea around €500. – Tell me a motivation why one of these people who does not receive asylum status here should go back voluntarily? I think there's been some sort of intervention, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e6434	Mrs Windbüchler-Souschill's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e6455	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! After such a speech by a member of the Liberal Party directly back into the budget debate, it is extremely difficult because, in my opinion, what has just been presented here was such a thing from the back. [[Abg. Kickl: Can you answer the questions?]] – To play population groups in this way is on the opposite side. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Back from you! That's where you have to see the direction!]] There is no doubt that tense times and also complex situations in which we are in fact requiring comprehensive action. From my point of view, they must be sustainable, fair, socially fair and, of course, global and European. However, all in all, such measures are missing in this budget, because, from my point of view, there is a need for a truly responsible budgetary policy to know, it also needs the political will to look at the major lines, to address them and to find solutions. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! No one has to be surprised whether the situation in Syria, whether the situation of the refugees of war, whether the situation of the humanitarian emergencies surrounding Syria or the situation of the causes of escape. The war in Syria has been under way for four and a half years, and a peace plan has already been presented by the UN together with Kofi Annan in 2012, coupled with the call of the United Nations that the UN's aid programmes receive too little financial resources. I emphasize: That was three years ago! Therefore, no one needs to feel surprised that the situation has now become even more extreme, even harder and worse, because the financial resources are missing. I believe that difficult budgetary frameworks should not be used as excuses for the failure to provide humanitarian aid at multilateral and bilateral level. This is ignored, and this ignore continues because the same figures are unfortunately also found in the 2016 budget. Although there has been a constant discussion over the last few weeks and it has been constantly called for that there should be support on the ground, in the crisis and war regions, there is no reference to this in the budget. Sustainable development cooperation, which needs strategy, a comprehensive strategy, a general government strategy, but above all financial resources, is ignored. The bilateral projects to end poverty, violence, hunger, inequality remain at the low level from 2015. Even less was it in 2014, because there was a minus of €1.5 million. It's just a non-exploitation-neutral design. And the contributions to the multilateral development policy, namely those contributions financed by the UN aid programmes – the World Food Programme, the UNICEF Children's Aid Agency, UNHCR, the High Commissioner for Refugees, the High Commissioner for Human Rights – are actually reduced by €15 million. That is, the funds for the UN aid programmes are not even at the same level, but they are reduced by €15 million. This is not only shameful and embarrassing, but it is also negligent, namely in that when one simply does not shape foreign policy. Now for food aid a word. – As far as the World Food Programme is concerned as part of the Food Assistance Convention – it is part of the Ministry of Life; it also includes the Food and Agriculture Organization of the UN – this pot is neither transparent nor exhausted. The problem is that all these pots, which are not transparent for UN and UN aid programmes, are not used up, and that the funds are too low. This needs to change as quickly as possible in order to be able to shape an external and development policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e6518	The next item is the speech by Mr Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e6539	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! I am sorry that the Minister of Finance is no longer there, because he meant earlier, he always hears only negative from the opposition, and I now have something positive to say. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] - Very good. When it comes to the budget we are currently using for refugees in Austria, I am sure it could be more; we have called for NEOS over and over again. – I don’t want to imagine how it would be with another government constellation. – The fact is that things are being done in this regard, and these are also reflected in the budget. But we could, and we have already heard that, save ourselves a lot of money if we were to use the corresponding resources in foreign policy, especially as regards EZA. Then we would not have to use the high level of financial resources in Austria. Nevertheless: It is important that we take these resources into account, it is important that we carry something forward in the area of integration, it is important that we use the money accordingly in terms of active labour market policies. It is also important – and we must not forget – for the following reason: Civil society has done a lot over the past few months, and it would cost far more without it. But now it's just going out of the air. We hear that all the time, and we see that, that's also logical, because if you help so many months, you've sometime also used your vacation or have to go back to college, and so on and so on. This means that we will have higher costs in this area. Mr Rossmann raised the question of whether we will manage to take this out of the structural deficit and what the Commission will do. And that's where I'd like to say: I'd rather be there with you, Mr. Deputies. I don't understand why the Minister of Finance just wiped it away. Although both of us were not present in Brussels, it is only necessary, for example, to listen to Mr Felder, who clearly says that it will probably not be possible to calculate this from the structural deficit. But even if this calculation is possible, because it is considered a unique situation, there is still the big problem – and that is the question of the future – that this situation will not be unique, because we will still have this situation in the next few years. I wonder what we will try next year and whether we will first write a letter again to Brussels and say, look, we have not been able to foresee this now, let us see if we may have to figure it out again this time. That means that we must think more about the future in this area and then we will also meet this challenge accordingly.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e6582	Next speaker: Mr Muchitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e6604	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Before I go to the budget On behalf of Mrs Marianne Gusenbauer-Jägerbei, I should like to extend my warmest welcome to our professional school in Linz 7 at the Hohe Haus. [[General condolences.]] I would also like to extend my warm welcome to our Members, apart from Karl Dobnigg, with his wife; dear Karl, I also warmly welcome you to Parliament! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am now allowed to deal with the budget estimate of social affairs. The total volume is €77 billion, of which €22.1 billion is due to the Federal Ministry of Labour, Social Affairs and Consumer Protection, 28.7 percent of the total budget. Now on the three main areas: The labour market sector is worth just over €8 billion. The focus in 2016 will be clearly where we are already well on the road, namely to increase the employment rate, especially with the focus on older people, young people and, above all, the return of people who are difficult to access to the labour market. In the area of social and consumer protection, just over €3 billion is available, with only €2.76 billion in care. To remember: Yes, the care money will be 1st. January 2016 increased by 2 percent, the care fund will continue to grow, and so it will also be able to create and secure thousands of new jobs in the field of social services. The third area, the largest area is the area of pensions. In the budget estimate, just over €11 billion is planned for this. Here too, the objective is clearly defined: to further increase the actual retirement age and, accordingly, to create more employment. However, pensions must also be safe and secure. And this has to be mentioned again and again: Even if there is a great deal of discussion about pensions, it is true that for years in the field of pensions, the values found in the proposal will be lowered. But at the end let me take a short look beyond 2016. If the Minister of Finance here announces that the future is only possible with reforms, hot iron has to be addressed ambitiously, then I must say, yes, he is right, but it will not be possible to achieve a budget recovery largely through the social sector. I believe that the opportunity for reforms lies in other areas, wherever we manage things twice and triple. You know what I am talking about, namely the division of tasks of the Federal Government, countries, communities. We are overmanufactured in these areas and we know that there is the greatest potential for savings there. I believe and am convinced that the financial compensatory negotiations that will start in the autumn are a huge chance to determine who is doing what in these areas: in the care, in the care of minimum security, in the area of housing construction, in the purpose of promoting housing to other areas, health, care and education. We are excited about what the commitment between the federal government and countries will be. I would like to see these financial compensatory negotiations carried out by the Federal Government vis-à-vis the other levels of administration. In this sense, I look forward to the next talks, including the budget consultations for 2016. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e6679	Next word: Mr Wöginger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e6700	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The Minister of Finance has presented a stable budget in difficult times. This is also confirmed by the three major credit rating agencies, each assessing the outlook with stability. I therefore strongly reject the attacks on the Minister for Finance on the part of my group. He's been in office for a year. Ladies and gentlemen! Financial minis- ter Schelling has presented a large tax relief with a package of €5 billion that we decided before the summer. He's done the hypo treatment for which he can't do anything, also with a general comparison with Bavaria. It was the Greek crisis that kept the whole of Europe in breath, where it has been distinguished by its expertise in this area, and it is now presenting a stable budget in difficult times. We thank our Minister of Finance, ladies and gentlemen, and give him a very good witness. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On the reforms: This is strange, and we know that from the regions in Austria, about 80 percent of the people, especially the opposition, which is always calling for 100 percent, reforms, social reforms, health reforms and administrative reforms. If these reforms are carried out, then these people are no longer present, or they are criticising the fact that exactly the reform should have been made different. Ladies and gentlemen! And this is the unreasonable one here in politics: Call for reforms, but then do not participate! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There has never been a pension reform of the opposition, neither in the past 13 years nor before. Reforms in the pension area are always being implemented within three or four years. Due to the 2012 budget situation, we have decided a consolidation package of €27 billion. Who wasn't there? – The Opposition! Who was not involved in the measures where we made cuts in the pension sector, which are painful, also for us Members of the Government? Who wasn't there? - That united opposition. [[Abg. New builder: Thank God!]] – Yes, thank God, Lord Neubauer. And you stand out here with a proposal of €12 billion in the social field, and nobody tells us how this should be financed. This is populist and inaccurate, ladies and gentlemen, and it must be said to the population. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Then we hear in the In the course of this budget debate the accusations that the deficit is far too high, the debt is far too high. – First of all, and this should also be known to the population, the deficit is falling from 1.9 percent to 1.4 percent, and the debt ratio is also falling from 86.5 percent to 85.1 percent – and this is far too high, we agree. But do you know why she's gotten even higher, by 5 percent? – Because 14 billion € had to be set for the hypo disaster in the budget, which increased the debt ratio by 5 percent – a disaster that the liberals in Carinthia have to answer, ladies and gentlemen! You have to say that. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] We are also faced with numerous demands in the field of education, social and health. These demands are legitimate, ladies and gentlemen. However, if we never get a counter-financing proposal when only the 599 Court of Auditors proposals are referred to, where there are certain which are to be implemented, that is not a question... – But then, Mr Lausch, you are the staff representative, and say what that means in the field of public services, that is, that bras are closed, that means that entire structures are being changed in the public service. [[Abg. Just don't you do it!]] [[New calls from the Abg. It's funny.]] You have never carried out a reform in the public service, ladies and gentlemen. It is you, Mr Lausch, who have never done this before – but always ask for it, and then at the end of the day you always leave the courage if we take the decisions here! That's not how history can be, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Call the FPÖ: Don't get up like that!]] We set up €40 billion for the social sector, which is about 50 percent of the total budget. Ladies and gentlemen, this is unique worldwide, you will not find it a second time around the world, and the challenge will be that we can secure this very good system for people in this country for the future. This is the challenge we have here, and that is our responsibility, and that is why I am in the process of bringing Austria back to the top.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e6805	Next, Mr Magistrate. Shrangl to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e6826	Mr President. Madam Minister of the Interior! Mr Stöger, Minister of State! Mr Wöginger, I come from beautiful Linz. There are three district captains there. You could easily put them together. This is Upper Austria, there you are. That went very quickly, ruckizucki, because we have a savings potential. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This has already been proposed by the liberals – let me think about it – three or four years ago. Today, however, I am again talking about a subject, and this has already been very well said by Mr Wöginger, where the government has cut something short – without the opposition – and especially the colleagues from SPÖ can certainly remember the glorious promises of our Federal Chancellor in the National Council election campaign 2013: 100 000 new apartments for Austria. Throughout the year 2014, many rural clubs and also municipal council groups of the Reds, SPÖ, have repeatedly informed their members and also the people out there, yes, the housing package is coming and there are so many apartments coming. Even the Upper Austrian club boss Christian Makor was delighted on 2 October. April 2014 on the confirmation of the Minister Ostermayer that the housing package will now finally and soon come. [[Abg. Schopf: Who is responsible for residential construction in Upper Austria?]] - Yes, the haimbuchner. Thank you. The SPÖ colleagues put an elf on me. In contrast to his SPÖ predecessor Kepplinger, he managed to increase the volume of housing by 1 000 flats per year. Thank you, Mr. Landesrat Haimbuchner! [[Complementary and intermediate calls at the FPÖ.]] Unfortunately, in May 2014, the Federal Government mentioned the reduction of the housing package from € 276 million to € 180 million – the reduction of the housing package! Now it is to come, the housing package, the large housing offensive of the Federal Government. In addition to the normal new construction capacity, 6 000 new apartments are now to be built per year. [[Abg. Haider: [O Muhammad] Then you have deceived yourselves, friends.]] In Germany, I am already talking about the consequences – and I miss a little in Austria, the Germans are once again a bit more honest – of the migration movements currently taking place, and cases of noise from social housing and from communities, because the communities need space for refugees, the media dominate. And that's why I'm wondering, my dear friends. Ladies and gentlemen: Is this housing package perhaps just a drop on the hot stone if the 80 000 refugees projected this year will be pushed into our housing market in Austria? And who also says that this package will keep at all? I remember the reduction in May 2014. And unfortunately, I have to say – now he is no longer there, the Federal Minister of Finance, – I am afraid that this large-scale package will be shortened again, because yesterday, in his first budget speech, Mr. Federal Minister did not mention the word “wohnbauoffensive”, “wohnungen” or anything else. [[Abg. Fekter: Oh, yes, you didn't watch!]] I've been watching. And I've got that too. You can show it to me, Mrs Fekter. I'll come to you. But the people outside this house are moaning under the cost of living. Young people live longer and longer with their parents. And families with children need to spend an ever larger part of their income for living. And this is a priority to help. And so I hope for the people in our country that this housing offensive from announcement giants will not again be implemented. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e6906	Next, Mrs Mag. Brunner speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e6927	Mr President. Dear Members of the Government! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Seers! So I don't think anyone here argues that this budget was created in a difficult time and has to deal with many difficult situations. But yet, I believe, the expectation is justified that the great challenges and the great opportunities have a place in this budget. Climate change is certainly one of the biggest challenges in this century, and I am convinced that the energy transition is one of the biggest opportunities that Austria has. In the budget speech of Mr Finanzminister yesterday, however, neither the words “climate protection” nor “energy” nor “environment” have occurred in any form whatsoever. When I looked at the budget documents, I could even understand why he kept this secret – because the environmental budget was greatly reduced. Eight weeks before the climate conference in Paris, the environmental budget will be cut short by this Federal Government. And if our club lady criticizes this, Mr Vice-Chancellor and, by the way, Energy Minister says: Well, what do the climate change conference and climate change have to do with the budget? – I find it quite shocking that one cannot see this connection, but I will be happy to explain it to him and you. Not only is there nothing to be found in this budget from a budget path as regards the Austrian commitments to climate protection commitments, which are extremely important for the success of the climate conference, but, as has been said, all climate change measures we have are cut short in the budget. The funds for the Climate and Energy Funds will be reduced by one third. Thousands of projects will not be implemented and financed in the context of domestic environmental support. The much praised rehabilitation check for the thermal rehabilitation is reduced by almost half. And all this, although there are as many revenues in the environmental budget as never before. There has never been as much revenue as it is now, through revenue from emissions trading. And the Minister for the Environment has apparently taken this completely away, and in addition, he has allowed the entire environmental budget to be cleared out. So, as an environmental politician, my heart is bleeding when I look at this budget. But as a citizen, I'm already wondering: What the hell is this? Do you still get anything in the Federal Government? This is not just about climate protection – it is! – but also on many other aspects. Their budget means that Austria will save 2.5 million tonnes of CO2 less in the future. I ask the Minister for the Environment: How do you want to achieve your micy climate targets, which we discussed yesterday? We will save less energy 200 gigawatt hours a year. So I ask the Minister of Energy: How do we want to achieve our energy efficiency objectives? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What's more, we're going to lose 7,500 jobs due to these cuts. Can we afford this now? And €465 million will be less invested. What do we need these investments for? The economically difficult times have been addressed. The environmental industry has doubled in Europe since 2000. The environmental industry is one of the few sectors that have developed positively since the start of the 2009 financial crisis. We simply cannot afford not to invest in environmental protection for reasons of climate protection, but also for economic reasons. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And all those who were in the last Economic Committee hopefully have the words of Professor Aigerer in mind, who said that if Austria also wants to remain at the top of the economy, we must recapture our environmental pioneering role and invest massively in climate protection. This budget is the opposite. The Minister of Finance has said that every day without reform is a lost day. This is true, and this is especially true of climate protection, because the longer we wait, the more expensive it will be, and the more we will lean behind instead of taking advantage of our opportunities and progressing. In this sense I appeal to you all: Let us take advantage of the next eight weeks to the climate conference, which is also the time when we are negotiating the budget here to reach a turnaround here! Sleeves up! We need this urgently. And I am convinced that Austria also urgently needs an independent, strong and committed Ministry of Environment, Energy and Climate Change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e6998	Next speaker: Mr Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e7019	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Minister! Yesterday, the Federal Minister of Finance said that every day that does not bring about reforms is a lost day. We'd like to start today. I would have a tip for him – he could even do this on his own – to support the companies in this country: He should delete the confiscation agreement with the Chamber of Commerce, which could immediately be removed from the Chamber of Commerce 2. This would help many companies. [[Congratulation with NEOS and FPÖ.]] The second tip I would have for him – something that his predecessor has already set up – is the transparency database that has not yet entered into force. For these reasons, I must say, the entrepreneurs and the citizens do not understand it when they are called the thieves of the nation and perhaps the thieves of the nation are elsewhere. Let us take note of the book of Kurt Kuch, who, unfortunately, died much too early, condemns the felt in this country. On the one hand, all entrepreneurs are criminalised, in the faith, so that €900 million can be made available, and at the same time we are wasting a lot of tax money on double-tracks. How is that supposed to work together? How should we achieve a consensus among the citizens who naturally know the situation, who know it is narrow? If it doesn't go so close above and if you distribute a birthday money in the new budget for the country of Salzburg at the amount of € 4 million, because it's 200 years old, then I don't understand the world anymore. This is no longer understood by the public, if the reforms are simply omitted, but they are stepped down and said: You thief, you businessman, you've always worked black. - I'm right about Minister Hundstorfer: Yes, we are also in favour of this being done and that, accordingly, bars are pushed forward here. But on the other hand, wasting the money, I don't see that. I'm sorry for every businessman. And when Mr. Wöginger speaks of the need for courage: Yes, often today – I don't want to talk to football teams at all – the structural deficit has often been quoted, but structural reforms have never been undertaken and will not be addressed in the future. And why this is so, the Minister of Finance himself has proved. In November he said to Mr Wolf in the “ZiB2”: No new taxes with me. Now we have new taxes, he's still there. He has announced – and I have also recorded this in a protocol – for example, with regard to the registers: the E131 regulation is sufficient, the cash registers must be manipulative. We know today that she's not enough. He has confirmed it in Parliament, before us, but it is not enough. What are we supposed to think about it? What are we supposed to think of a Minister of Finance, saying: No new taxes with me. We have a problem with expenditure and not a problem with revenue. What are we supposed to think if we still do not know how to implement the reforms, if not even the Image is drawn, but we are only held with empty promises, but at the same time the entrepreneurs are represented as the thieves of the nation. That's disgraceful. This is inasmuch as I do not have to expect optimism among the companies, the economic operators, because they are the thieves of the nation anyway. That's not good. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Last example, we've often got it delivered enough: With the future VAT increase at Logis, even with the depreciation period, where do I want to spread optimism here? Then there are words from the west axis – that is not the axis of evil, but the west axis – which then says: Our representatives of the EIA remain sitting when it comes to this. - You're up! What are we supposed to think about it? I think it's just more of the principle: We dream of warm ice slides, get the money from the entrepreneurs and then distribute it from above as anniversary gifts, because a country has grown 200 years old. With these 4 million, we could pay a lot of teachers. That is the point where we could go, and that would have to bring about a structural reform. We must not be in the grip of these social partners – Mr Katzian is not here – and not in the grip of these national leaders. We are talking about negotiating Article 15a agreements. Let her sit down! This is a reform. Let's do it: Let us set up structural reforms in the countries, federalism and supportism. Then we're on one. Good way and then we have two billion loose inside.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e7094	Mrs Mag. Kuntzl will speak next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e7116	Ladies and gentlemen! Just one addition to my previous speaker: I do not fully understand the excitement as far as entrepreneurs are concerned, because the tax reform, which, as some Members have said before me, is the core of this budget, will bring a discharge of €5 billion, a discharge that will on average amount to €1 000 per capita. [[Abg. Riemer: Entrepreneurs understand them!]] And that's exactly what businessmen will feel because an essential effect will be economic acceleration. So the excitement is not justified, on the contrary, this is a very important step, also towards entrepreneurs in our country. One area that is particularly dear to us and which is undisputedly one of the important investments in the future is education. The school area has already been discussed today. I would like to devote myself to the field of tertiary education and its presentation in the budget. As far as the universities are concerned, these will be equipped with an increase of €160 million in this budget estimate. We expect these higher education structures to be used to improve care conditions at universities. To improve by creating more professorships – just as we and the coalition partner have agreed to do. There are two ways and approaches to improve care conditions: One is to have fewer students, and the other is to have better conditions. We assume that we do not have too many students in Austria, but rather under bad conditions, and that these additional funds should be used accordingly. As far as technical colleges are concerned, there will be €16.5 million more for technical universities. This means that there will be more than 38 600 higher education courses financed by the Ministry of Science. This is also very important, since this is an area that is quite pleased with demand, because more vocational training is offered here, and so on, that one can successfully complete it in a professional manner. That is also something very important, something we need very urgently. Something I regret is that although the approach to study funding remains the same, it does not grow. This would be very important from our point of view, because it would be important to increase the funding of studies. We have more and more students who have to work and thus have longer and longer study periods. And we heard yesterday from Mr Vice-Chancellor – which has somewhat irritated me – that study contributions are a means of controlling access to universities. From our point of view, this would be exactly the wrong approach to control social selection. Therefore, from our point of view, investment in equal opportunities in education, a stronger investment in equal opportunities in access to our universities would be a very, very important investment in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e7151	Mrs Schittenhelm's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e7173	Mr President. Estimated Minister of the Interior! Federal Minister! High house! Mr Schrangl, who meant that the Minister for Finance did not talk about housing, because there is nothing to say: Please read in the speech on page 6, here it is very well inside. So be a little more precise. [[Abg. Schrangl: But he didn't say it! There are only 1,000 apartments inside, not 3,000!]] [[Abg. Pendl: Life is hard!]] Nothing happened, it's in it and it's done. High house! The impact of the economic crisis is still present, although it has been for seven years. And I thought, How will the Federal Minister for Finance be able to present us with a budget, which is also feasible, and, of course, of course, let it be decided accordingly? The economic crisis is seven years behind; we have the disaster of Hypo, weak economic growth, high unemployment, although we have to face this with very high employment, the Greek crisis that continues to affect us and the economy. [[Call the FPÖ:Unemployed government!]] And above all, there is also – and this is an essential point – the great uncertainty of investors, but also the population with regard to global instability and the associated crisis of trust, which Austria has also achieved. You have to admit that. And yet our Minister of Finance Hans Jörg Schelling has created a budget that will make an economic offensive possible and will trigger it according to investment impulses. I'm deeply convinced. Zugute also comes to us – and we should not take too little account of this – that our Austria is not only a beautiful country, but above all a safe and peaceful country. This means for the companies: Yes, there is stability. Generations before us have worked hard to achieve this status and this status, all of us – as we are here today – and the Austrian population is also working today to ensure that Austria, in terms of quality of life, will continue to participate in all international rankings in the future. With this 2016 budget, the objectives are clearly defined, we have heard this several times: a solid federal budget. We all know that there must be reforms here, as quickly as possible. Here, of course, the Federal Government will show its commitment accordingly. A discharge of taxpayers and corresponding impulses for growth and employment is the point. We need economics, employment, social balance in our country! [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] In addition, of course, Europe, but also Austria, has been facing a new, extraordinary and difficult situation since the middle of this year, namely the flow of refugees. That is why, in agreement with the Minister for the Interior and the Minister for Defence, the Minister of Finance has, of course, also done so in the field of security. We look out, we see what is happening and we also know how to keep it in total, especially this year 2015. Today there is still € 230 million for the BMI, € 70 million for security measures and € 160 million for infrastructure, because the containers, the buses, the housing communities, all that costs. You have to imagine that. That is why I do not want to waste – because she is present here today – our Minister for the Interior Mag. I would like to thank Mr Mikl-Leiter for her work, for her commitment and, above all, for her work at European level. That sounds so loose – we read it in the newspapers – but our Minister of the Interior is also fighting at European level: first of all, to give a real look at things, also for the European colleagues. A thank you also to their police, to all those who are busy with it, of course also the NGOs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The same applies to the German army, which makes an important contribution with border protection. We are – thank God! – in the happy position to be able to use 3,000 ground defenses, recruits for extended border protection. [[Abg. Hoebart: They're just standing there!]] It's true, even if you hit your hands together! I don't think it's a good idea to say anything and every one in this republic. If you're talking bad, it'll hurt our country. And against that we refuse! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Höbart: Whoever does not act makes the land even worse!]] However, the German army will also be put to the side – this is an essential aspect, and this also shows the responsibility for the future – for maintaining the order and security of budgetary instruments, should this require the situation. This is a very essential point, which, of course, is not defined in figures. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, a key point was also the family. And the biggest point, when I address the family, is, of course, the tax reform that we have already decided on. It is the largest package in this budget 2016. Families are relieved in about €100 million, a big point. This will also increase the purchasing power of the population, i.e. the families. And the WIFO says in a study that the purchasing power of families will increase by 1.5 percent in the next year alone due to the tax package. We need this movement in the economy, we also need this incentive for entrepreneurs, and I am deeply convinced that we will bring Austria back to the top. Anyway, I'm there, and I hope so many of you are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e7280	Next word: Mr Ing. Höbart. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e7302	Mr President. High house! Believers at the gallery! So the whole Republic has now become a witness to how to put word aid and empty word donations into a speech. [[Abg. Gisela Worm: So this is really last-class!]] Mrs Schittenhelm, we have noticed that you are not acting! They have just accused us, in our direction, that the Freedom Party is only criticizing and only our country is bad. I'll tell you: It's clearly better to put the cards on the table – we're saying what things are – than you do. And that is what we accuse the Federal Government of: that it has not been acting at all for years, in no area! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I have to say: Every year, not only does the Christ Child – with which our families have joy, our children have joy – come back, we also discuss every year again the budget of the so-called “Rubritt government”, the red and black district government, which can do nothing but burden the last performance providers in this society accordingly, to express the last performance providers such as semi-empty or semi-trail lemons. These are developments that we oppose as a Freedom Party. I would also like to inform you of a study – I know that you are already very nervous – a 2014 study by Bertelsmann: ‘Austria’s policy is slow and incompetent. That's what brings things to the point. Austria – which has been said many times today – slips off in all rankings, in all rankings: in terms of competitiveness, in terms of economic growth, in terms of the attractiveness of the economic location and in terms of the efficiency of the government – no na net. In unemployment, we are also slipping back more and more. Nor will any administrative reforms be implemented to ultimately obtain budgets to invest. I'll get you together. This red-black federal government does nothing at all, it is just blocked. You're blocking each other. There is no direction, there are no visions. We've been wondering for a long time: Where is the Federal Chancellor Faymann, who actually had the task of missing the Republic a drop, to give a direction to give visions? Yeah, he's disappearing. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] That is why you – and you know that very well – are running the voters in all federal states and also at federal level in crowds of them. Now, just to the budget, quoted from the media: There are many blind spots in the budget, the tax reform is almost in the sand, economic growth is at zero. The question is how counter-financing looks like savings. You don't know everything. We have a miserable economic policy, we have no recovery of the economy, an extremely high level of unemployment, which will continue in the coming years – at least this federal government will become tragic. We have a permanent budget gap of 350 million in the school budget. This is where Mrs Heinisch-Hosek is sitting, who, by the way, no longer trusts in the street in her home town of Guntramsdorf, because she is then addressed by the people, why there is nothing going on in the school and education sectors. Yes, asylum has already been addressed. In Austria, doors and gates have been opened to uneducated and culturally distant people from all regions of the world, which will cost billions of money in the coming years. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] I'm already excited about how you're going to organize this. Now you're all sitting there and saying, This will bring a corresponding added value! – Already the previous immigration has not brought any added value to our Republic at all. I'm already excited about how this should happen to Afghans and Pakistani and other people. In conclusion: Not only has the budget failed – that is, already failed – but also the Austrian Federal Government has failed.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e7369	Mr Schopf spoke in favour of an actual correction. Mr President, you know the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e7394	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schrangl of the FPÖ has said that, under the Councillor Haimbuchner of the FPÖ in Upper Austria, more dwellings have been built. [[Abg. Haider: That's right too! More than 1,000! That's what the voters voted for!]] - That's wrong! [[Abg. Haider: Despite your shortage! Even though you left the resort that way!]] After a television discussion of the ORF, the fact-finding check of the ORF shows: Under the National Freedom Council in Upper Austria, concrete 1 279 apartments were built less than in the time of his predecessor Dr. Hermann Kepplinger of Social Democracy. And that's the truth.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e7463	Next word: Mr Mag. Loacker – Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e7484	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! If I want to show, as Minister of Finance, that Parliament is in a mood for me, then I miss the budget debate. – So much for that. [[It was in favour of NEOS and FPÖ, as well as MEPs of the Greens.]] And whatever is extremely laborious, the constant excuses are why a deficit is being generated again. It's always something: Once it's the hypo, once it's the refugees, once it's a flood, the financial and economic crisis, Greece – something always comes to your mind why it's not going out again this time. As the Minister of Finance always uses the comparison with the private budgets: A private household cannot find a new excuse every year as to why it does not work out. A few words about the labour market, where the government is running out of costs because the economy is not going on and unemployment is high. Therefore, there are high costs for passive benefits and there is no money left for active labour market services. Although the crisis has grown, less money is available per unemployed person than before. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] We finally had to reduce the additional wage costs – and we discussed this widely yesterday. This is what the Minister of Finance has announced, and he wants to do something about the family compensation fund. How it should be, how it wants to achieve a discharge, if this fund will still be over-indebted to me at the end of 2017, with almost €2.4 billion – it must be for me to do so – for he cannot move it further into the minus. For pensions, it looks like we have to put 20 billion € on the social security pensions every year for civil servants' pensions plus federal subsidies; so we actually need a mortgage for pensions every year. Nothing happens – nada, misachievement, nothing goes on. By 2060, the KOLAPS, according to which the Pensions Commission, says that the Federal Grant will rise to the pensions of 2.9% of GDP to 5.6 percent of GDP, and this is what the Social Minister then prevents, but that the total cost of gross domestic product will remain more or less the same. This is the typical fine calculator, as we know from the Federal Minister for Social Affairs. For we are paying pensions, not from GDP, but from what people are paying in the payment procedure. But if I have fewer contributors, I have to get the difference out of the means of taxation, and that's where the costs run away from us. It's always nice talking. At the moment, we also see a little that effect on pensions that age stabilizes, on the one hand because of statistical tricks and on the other hand because of a biennial window because of hackler pensions. By 2013 as a man of 60 years of age could be retired, now comes a two-year window where she They must wait until they are 62 years to take advantage of the hacker board. But we will have the next push in the hacker board from 2017 on both the ASVG and the officials, which is favored by the deposits. That means we didn't get anything, we just pushed the problem out for a few years. Whoever doesn't care what comes out of civil servants' pensions, that's the State Secretary Steßl. She also does not care because she is only responsible for legal matters with officials, because if there is a problem with pensions, it is the Minister of Finance again. As long as nothing is done and the responsibility is merged with the officials, both for the law of the service and for the financing and for the pension at the end, this will remain the same and will not move. As the vice chancellor so aptly formulated it, it will be rehearsed.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e7558	Mr Wimmer came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e7579	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! In budget heading 34, 130 million are planned for the Industry 4.0 project. I would like to thank you very much, Mr. Alois Stöger, for setting up this “Industrie 4.0 platform” in this context, where all the stakeholders at the social level can accept this challenge and deal with it. A warm thank you! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am therefore saying this, ladies and gentlemen, because of course this issue will be very serious and deep in the future, because we can produce more and more with fewer and fewer people. Much has already been said about social partners today, I believe that Mr Auer has already spoken of calls and social partners today. After all, we cannot always choose the social partners, once we get a little more comfortable and often we don't like it at all. [[Abg. Auer: Me neither!]] Now we have a time again, ladies and gentlemen, at which it is not so round. Today we have collective treaty negotiations in the late afternoon, and our social partners, the trade association of the machinery and metal products industry, have been directing us since 6 o'clock in the early morning, that he will be feeding down the people who work there in the establishments, i.e. his employees or our colleagues, with the inflation rate from Europe, at 0.1 percent. [[Abg. Auer: You're going to do that!]] This is really interesting, because we know that people live in Austria, not in Germany or in England. That's why I'm surprised. Because if we are already consistent and say, yes, it is necessary that we take into account the inflation rates of the countries we supply, then we must also be consistent and say that we have world businesses, we deliver to the whole world, we are taking the inflation rate of the whole world, which is 3.45 percent. [[Abg. Auer: I've known you for so long, you're going to take care of this!]] This would, of course, be better for colleagues. But let me say another point on wage tax reform, which has really been comprehensive and really epochal in this budget place. 5 billion more are available to people, ladies and gentlemen, a sum that has never been available in this republic. It has already been mentioned today, people from January are really staying in the wallet. And this is so important because, as we know, the wage tax revenue has been enormously high this year and therefore this reform has been implemented. I think this is a big throw and it will be a good day for the working people in Austria, but also for the pensioners.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e7648	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Zakostelsky. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e7669	Mr President. My Honourable Government Members! Ladies and gentlemen! We have, as usual at the budget discussion, a lot of party-political hack, that was no different to expect either. Let us, however, turn this aside and ask ourselves what the objectives at the meta-level for the Austrian Federal Budget 2016 are. I would think that these are three objectives: Firstly, a strict budgetary discipline as an absolute prerequisite for stable finances in the country. Secondly, the budget should show that we are saving the state and investing in the future of the citizens. And thirdly, above all, it must be said that in the budget it is visible and also felt that the money of taxpayers is handled with care. And here, the 2016 budget seems to be very well suited to the quality of the budgets of recent years. As I said, it can be used here as an excellent fight and Hickhack, but let's just speak the numbers, let's look at the time series. Let us perhaps start with the Maastricht deficit: For the third time in a row, we are already achieving a deficit value which is clearly below the Maastricht limit; 2014 2.7 percent of GDP, 2015 1.9 percent, and 2016 the Maastricht deficit has already fallen to 1.4 percent in budget terms. That is to say, one sees that the trend is also going in the right direction to significantly reduce this deficit. The structural deficit: With a minus of 0.54 percent in 2016, this is also within the target corridor for the third time. For this, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank, on the one hand, – although not present here – finance ministers, but in the end also the entire Federal Government, in particular, since it has become well known that all members of the government have agreed in the so-called confessional procedure on a careful handling of the taxpayers' money. But so that you don't misunderstand me: I do not want to deny that the deficit in 2016 hurts at least € 5.1 billion. The debt in Austria continues to rise, but as Reinhold Lopatka has already said, the path is the right one, but we need further reforms. And I would also admit at this point that we should and must take this path a little bit more quickly. A key reform building, ladies and gentlemen – we know this together and therefore we should not be small in the interest of our country – is the tax reform. The tax reform, which – and you know these figures sufficiently – brings each Austrian and every Austrian more 1 000 € in the famous “Tascherl” and thus – as the WIFO says – an economic incentive of About 0.5% of GDP will be achieved. And since the mood is so important for the economy, for consumption, we must also carry it accordingly, in the sense of the welfare of our country. Ladies and gentlemen, of course – and the Minister of Finance mentioned this yesterday – the second part of the tax reform must follow, a discharge from entrepreneurs – the entrepreneurs who create jobs, pay taxes and thus secure our prosperity. Schelling has already announced yesterday that this second reform will follow from 2017 onwards. The main focus here is on reducing the additional wage costs, and therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we will lead Austria back to the top. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e7718	Mrs Mühlberghuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e7739	Mr President. Dear members of the Federal Government on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! I want to dedicate myself to the topic of family. If yesterday in the budget speech the great tax reform was mentioned again and again, it is to be remembered that per family just € 220 per year is left by increasing the child allowance. An example of this: A mother earns 1 300 € gross monthly and has a total amount of 4.58 € per month for her child by doubling the child's allowance. In this tax reform, it is true that: The more families earn, the more they can get back through the free money. I wonder, therefore, where there is a reduction in the risk of poverty for families, which is or should be the focus of family policy on the budget. I would like to remind you that we have over a million vulnerable people in Austria. Most of them are families, a large part of them are single mothers, and nearly 400 000 are children. Or: The former 13. Family aid, which has been reduced to €100 school start-up money shortly after the introduction, is now only worth more than €94 due to inflation. But now I want to come to the so-called big throw of the 2016 tax reform, to the family aid, which is with 1. January 2016 will be increased by 1.9 percent. However, according to economic forecasts, inflation in 2016 is 1.7 percent. If the Minister of Finance has spoken about increasing family support in his budget speech, it should already be noted that this increase alone consumes 1.7 percent of inflation. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A short example: The family allowance for a ten-year-old child is € 136.20. These will be 1st. January 2016 increased by 1.9 percent, resulting in 138.80 € – a total increase of 2.60 €. If you subtract inflation, then exactly 27 cents remain. – And this is supposed to be a big throw for our families?- Oh, my God! Finally, I would like to mention that yesterday, the “Economic Sheet” reported on the 2016 budget and was read – and the “Economic Sheet” is, as far as I am informed, not a “blue” leaf – “it will be remedied”. – Ladies and gentlemen, there is nothing to add to this.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e7782	Mrs Gamon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e7804	Mr President. Appreciate members of the government! We are tending to increase the budget after that. value how the changes may affect us or our own clients. But what's really missing is that you look at the whole thing in the long term and think about those who don't have a voice yet. Is this budget suitable for generations? – The answer is unfortunately: No, no, no, With this budget, boys are given new stones to us in the debt backpack, which is already very difficult anyway. The government debt is already rising that 60. Year in a row. But we can not only measure generation-righteousness by how much debt increases, but above all by why they rise. Investments in the future will take place in Austria, while we spend a lot of money on past things. This is now manifest in the so-called implicit government debt, which in the future represents relevant payment obligations compared to future revenue. And last year it rose from 271 percent to 315 percent of GDP. The government has made financial promises that it will never be able to meet, while we have to make every euro available for future investment at present. – It almost triggers government crises when we talk about things like education. – More than double the educational budget will be used for pensions in the coming year, and pension insurance grants will rise by 3.2 percent. The valued Minister of the Past Hundstorfer, on the other hand, makes himself up and believes that he would have moved something because he was not exploiting the financial framework. And we are happy here to see if the maybe short-term improvements will be improved and then wake up in a sad reality in which we realize that pension policy is refreshing our future. The federal grant will rise from 2.9 percent to 5.6 percent of GDP by 2060. In particular, we have achieved one thing, namely that we no longer have funds for future investment. The urgency is not seen by this government – we have to wait until February until finally what we can do. You have to say: We don't have time anymore. That really pushes. Every hour, almost €2.3 million is spent on pensions in the budget – every hour! Every minute we pay €39 000. These contributions will rise in the next few years, and that means that during my speech alone, almost €120 million have been lost from the budget in pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e7849	Mrs Mag. Muttons. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e7870	Mr President. Dear Members of the Government! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make a few comments on the external chapter. Europe has been surrounded for several years by a semi-circuit of growing instability and war – starting in Ukraine, through the Caucasus, Turkey, up to Syria, the Middle East and also North Africa. To date, the impact in Austria has been felt mainly by the strong increase in protection seekers. It must be clear that the main burden of the Syrian refugee crisis is still borne by the direct neighbouring countries, with over 90 percent of refugees. The countries there are now at the end of their opportunities with this task. At the same time, the money goes out for the United Nations World Food Programme. So we have to ask ourselves what happens if these politically and economically weak countries no longer do, what happens if these previously stable countries come together and violent conflicts break out there as well. If we now increase the foreign disaster fund from €5 million to €20 million in order to better support these countries in the supply of refugees, and if we take back the massive cuts in development cooperation funds – I am not talking about increasing them – then the right and necessary measures are what we really need to support and welcome. And yet, ladies and gentlemen, we should be honest. These measures are not an act of international solidarity alone, as Mr Finanzminister said yesterday, and the foreign disaster fund and the entire EZA funds are not only an altruistic act of mercy to people in need. No, they are in our own and selfish interest, because they make a direct and direct contribution to our security in Austria, and therefore they must be properly equipped. A wormhead drop in this context is certainly the significant reduction in money for international organisations. The UN and the OSCE are doing invaluable work in crisis prevention and crisis prevention, especially in the European neighbouring regions. We should therefore look closely at where we are shortening, and make sure that we do not engage in our good standing in the OSCE and in the United Nations. We have worked out this good stand as an international location, but also as an active member through good work over the last decades. We shouldn't put that at risk. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e7916	Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Dr. Fekter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e7937	Mr. Minister! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of High house! The direction is right. We are in the fifth year of consolidation. Today, a good overview in the form of a table has been published in the ‘Kurier’, which shows: In the beginning of 2011, we gradually reduced the deficits and approached the zero deficit. Since 2011, we have known the debt brake, we have decided it here in the House, and since 2012 there has been a stability pact with the countries, municipalities and social security funds. There is the Stability Pact at federal level and also at European level. [[Call the Greens.]] It is therefore gratifying that, in addition to the Stability Pact and the consolidation path, a tax reform with a volume of €5 billion could also be decided. [[call to the FPÖ.]] However, the consolidation path has not been abandoned. Of the €27 billion consolidation that the path has set out until 2016, the majority is done through very strict budgetary discipline. The funding reform is not yet fully completed. This budget therefore has its own reform focus in this field: a cost brake in administration and funding – €3.3 billion by 2020; only €700 million savings in the Federal Administration for the next year. Mr Schelling, Minister of Finance, has called for reforms, and that is a good thing. A particular cost driver is ÖBB and rail infrastructure – I mention this because the Minister for Infrastructure is here. Hidden in the pre-load law and the framework plan, the pre-loads for the next generations are now increased from €39 billion to €42 billion. [[call to the FPÖ.]] We are moving these loads into the future. That's where we leave the next generation a huge debt mountain. [[Abg. Heinzl: What about the hypo?- Oh, my God!]] I am in favour of infrastructure and long-term investment, but I am sure that the funding for this will not be limited to the following generations alone. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Heinzl]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gisela Worm.]] If, in the case of long-term investment, a generation has the economic advantage, such as jobs through construction measures, economic effects through these investments, it is precisely this generation, which has the advantage, that it should also bear the costs, not entirely but predominantly. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] It's all quite hidden, intrusive, hidden, not visible in the budget. Mr Minister, I would ask for more transparency, more clear presentation – starting with the framework and also with the pre-examination law. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Heinzl: What did you do as a minister?- Oh, my God!]] The consistent continuation of the consolidation rate and the tax reform we have also made is a welcome one. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Heinzl.]] I would like to thank the officials of the Ministry of Finance for the very detailed preparation of the budget documents and the clear presentation of the impact targets and targets for the departments. These targets, when we reach them, will, of course, bring Austria back to the top – connected with reform wishes. I'm with you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e8048	Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Schrangl in word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e8084	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Mr Schopf said first in an actual correction that Landesrat Haimbuchner had built fewer dwellings. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] You have to look at it more precisely, he's perfectly right. It is true that more rental apartments – yes, please – were built, but overall, and that I quote from a... – Yes, under Kepplinger more rental apartments, yes. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schopf]] [[Abg. Shopf:... Kepplinger!]] However, I quote from the figures of the country of Upper Austria – from 2004 to 2009 – were created during the term of office of the SPÖ housing council Kepplinger 13 248 housing units. Between 2010 and 2015, under the leadership of the State Council Dr. Manfred Haimbuchner, it is 14 341 housing units. [[Oh, call at the FPÖ.]] This corresponds to an increase of more than 1 000 housing units. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e8143	Ladies and gentlemen, the Rules of Procedure do not provide for an actual correction to be made, and in the event of a reply, one must be personally involved in order to be a response. [[Abg. Auer: Learn Rules of Procedure!]] [[Abg. Pendl: Nothing to add to it!]] [[Further call to the SPÖ.]] Next word: Mr Mölzer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e8196	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! We have a budget debate here, and of course we can also check the budget speech of the Minister of Finance plus the budget law that we will be discussing here in the House in the next few weeks. Now, when I get a few headlines from the media that have been brought to Austria today, it can be read that experts in this Minister's budget doubt that it is a wave budget that it was a budget speech without fire and thus a budget without fire. A blind flight in which we are there – this has already been given by colleague Roman Haider for the best. If you compare this with the years before, you have to say again, unfortunately, that it is a visionless budget, which contains little substantial new – except for this collective reform, which was long overdue. In my opinion, of course, this blind flight is problematic in terms of asylum costs and follow-up costs, where we simply do not know where the trip is going, and we still have too optimistic expectations about the counter-financing of the tax reform or collective reform. Let me lose a few thoughts about the cultural resort, the cultural area. We know that in the last 12 or 13 years, if you really adjusted the whole thing, a 5 percent reduction in the budget was actually the case. If, Mrs Glawischnig has already mentioned it today, there should be €15 million in the budget, then this is just a beauty, because there is a credit at the museum quarter. These €15 million are nice money, but it's not a new money for the resort. What's more, I don't know. If you think that this money is now going into any new projects or the like, then unfortunately this is not the case, but it is just the valorization of the basic fee for the Bundestheater, which is not necessarily an improvement either. In addition, Mr. Kulturminister Ostermayer announced this a great deal two weeks ago in the Cultural Committee – the House of History of Austria, which will cost about €20 million. There is no financial approach in the budget at all, I am eager to hear what we are going to hear from the Minister in the Committee on Budgets, where the money is to come from. In addition, the same goals of action always come – my favorite is the display of the Artothek of the Federal Government in the 21st House, which has been entered into the budget for four years. That's a bit of a fad, I miss the ambitions. What I lack – in the cultural field or in general – is the issue of transparency, which was still a subject in Mr Spindelegger's last budget or budget speech. This has not at all mentioned Mr Schelling that it should be more transparent in order to increase efficiency. This should be remembered and continued urgently. Another topic is the lack of potential savings in the cultural field – as we could see in the Court of Auditors' subcommittee of around €30 million in the field of the Federal Theatre – as well as an old free-trader for the I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President of the Commission, for his excellent report. So we are also in the cultural resort far away from real approaches. I am afraid that this will not change in the budget debate over the next few weeks. I fear there will only be new elections and a election of this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e8260	Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e8282	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! About €5 billion will bring tax relief to Austrians from January next year. This is a lot of money, and this will, above all, bring more money into the stock exchange to the average earners and also to the low wage recipients in Austria. That's good. This increases purchasing power in our country, which will then boost the economy. This is an important impulse in our country, which is an important impulse for Austria. In the budget, however, growth impulses are also set for the economy, for which people: €300 million for broadband expansion, €200 million of economic support in the course of the tax reform. The expansion of school day care will continue, child care offers for under 3 year olds with €80 million, structural resources for universities, the grant for care costs will be increased, and, and, and. To the women's budget: I am particularly concerned to say that the budget approach has remained the same. A little more would have been preferable to me, no doubt. We have times of crisis, that has been said over and over again, but on the other hand, and I will pay particular attention to the fact that, as in the Constitution, there must now be a level playing field in the budget in each department. We will have to ensure that the funding is spent, how and for what the money is spent, whether it comes to sexual justice or not. There's a lot to do here. We just discussed yesterday – for example, the topic of funding: How are they spent in relation to culture? Where are the filmmakers, where are the directors, where are the directors? Why are women especially in front of the camera and not behind the camera? For example, how are the funds spent in the area of AMS funding for older women workers spent, and, and, what? What is it like in the case of economic promotions? What is the distribution of money in agriculture? How are women promoted in rural areas? What is mobility like? - A lot has happened. If there is a car in a household, then above all the man is the one who has it. Therefore, mobility and the development of public transport are also very important areas for very, very many women. We will take a close look at all of this in terms of the objectives of action. The Minister for the Interior has been here for a long time and has listened to the debate we have held here. There too we will look at how it is ordered with the career permeability of the police inside. What about the karenz pool that we've been promised for a long time? What is it like in foreign policy? The diplomats have the same conditions like their male colleagues, or is there also a difference as we are confirmed again and again, and, and, what? We have a lot to do. We will take a close look at the review of women's tolerance in all sectors and, accordingly, show that if it is not the case that gender justice – and democracy belongs to gender justice – is included in this budget. It is said again and again that the budget has been cast in figures, and that women must have their fair share.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e8340	Mrs Nachbaur. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e8361	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Dear colleagues in the House and dear taxpayers! Yesterday, in the budget speech, we heard some encouraging things from the Minister for Finance: There will be an additional wage reduction, a research support premium, an administrative cost brake, and cold progression will be abolished. That's all good and right, and I'm looking forward to that, but there's no room at all to rest on anything. On the contrary! The state is inefficient, I would like to take two examples. We are spending the highest resources in Europe on the labour market. There you have to ask the Ministry of Social Affairs what it looks like. For the fact that there is a lot of money pumping in there without bringing a single person into employment is not possible, Mr. Social Minister! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Another example is the stamping of unopposed criminal courts. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lightenecker.]] If I have a warrant on my windscreen, I don't care if I have to pay it as a handlebar or as a handlebar, because there's no discount for it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That's not a women's policy, Mrs. Women's Minister! But all this is symptomatic of what some in the government are dealing with. In fact, one must look at the fact that we have the highest level of unemployment, that we have the highest inflation in the EU, especially because of the fee collection, above all in the red city of Vienna, that the businessmen have the water to their necks, that we are being regulated to death. An entrepreneur recently told me that he had a juicy punishment because his fire extinguisher on the wall is a few inches too low. If the entrepreneurs do not suffocate at the tax burden, they probably suffocate to the rules – or they migrate out: to London, Switzerland, to America. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] This may not excite you, ladies and gentlemen from the red centralist regulatory group, but I am excited, as a substitute for the entrepreneurs of this country. [[Buh-Rufe at SPÖ]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As a party independent in the ÖVP club, I have now met people there, and they know what things are, and therefore I support Mitterlehner and Schelling! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] [[Ironic Rejoicing]] Bravo! [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] But you have to ask yourself the question of how far you can get there with some colleagues in this compulsion. [[Call the FPÖ:Government change!]] In fact, some have not understood that the demand for the overtime euro, after another week of vacation, can be a reduction in the working time of the Turbo for the country's economic downturn. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] France is the best example. The former Grande Nation, by introducing such a massive wealth tax, has lost its entire investors and generated record unemployment through the 35-hour week. [[Yes, at the ÖVP.]] Only a functioning private economy that can operate within the framework of a slim and efficient rule of law can create prosperity. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am fighting for the taxpayers of this country and I am also at it when we bring Austria back to the top. I hope you do, too.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e8472	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Hauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e8499	Mr President. Appreciate Mrs Minister! Estimated Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Dr. Nachbaur has now tried to present the common direction of the government, but I notice a huge gap. [[Congratulations with FPÖ, NEOS and Team Stronach]] Another personal word about the credibility of Mrs Mag. Repurchasing: [[Abg. Reborn: Doctor!]] You saw, she changed the club. I don't think such people hold everything, I have to make it loud and clear. [[Abg. Rebaur: Doctor for you still!]] I listened to all the speakers this morning. I feel a little abandoned, the rural area has hardly been addressed at all. I am a bit of an exclusive fighter for rural areas, Mr Auer. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] – You can laugh, look at the speeches, work for rural areas, I wish. The Minister of Finance yesterday referred to the financial compensation and correctly noted that the financial compensation in its present form is impermeable and also inefficient by many financial flows. That's right, just what's missing is: He is also unfair, he is unfair, because the citizens in rural areas are less valued – and, in part, much less – than the citizens in the cities. [[Abg. Right!]] If I look at it in such a way that a citizen in my home community is just worth a quarter of what the citizen in Vienna is worth, then you can explain it to me. And that essentially since 1920! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] It is incredible that one is not able to change this graded population key which is massively disadvantaged by rural areas. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] You all know one thing here... – If you have anything to say, please come out, Mr. Matznetter, and please speak here at the Pult! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Matznetter.]] [[Abg. Matznetter: I'll come out then!]] I notice, however, that I raised the right issue when you screamed in that way. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Matznetter.]] I seem to have succeeded. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Screaming does not help – help you to change the unjust financial balance with the graduated population key. That's where I expect you to make the effort you've been screaming from your seat. So I'd like to hold on: This graded population key must be changed. The rural area is thinning. You know we have a population decline. You know that we have ever bigger tasks – also through the policies that we decide to do. In the care sector, the municipalities finance, although many rural communities are unable to do so. [[Prolonged calls of the Abg. Matznetter.]] I'm referring to wastewater, water, canal. 186 square kilometers has my home community. Do you know how much money we should invest in the municipal roads alone to meet the standard? – I believe, Mr Matznetter, you do not know that! They are blinded by Vienna and by the flow of money, which since 1920 unjustly flows in your direction. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] And that can't be it, I'll hold that once again. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I ask what the Court of Auditors has requested in its many publications: It is necessary to merge expenditure and responsibility for tasks. Where the tasks are to be done, there is also the money to go. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rossmann.]] The municipalities – and I have seen this from here more often – are responsible for the investments of primary schools, we are the school holders. I hear the argument over and over again, every student is worth a lot. - That's how it must be. But what does a financially weak community do in infrastructure if it does not have the money? So there already starts inequality – and so on. Finally, a sentence on the so-called thousands of people to save themselves. It's being reduced anyway, that's what our DDr has. Fuchs is clearly established. Now comes the following: Do you know what rural communities need to do if they do not have the necessary resources to carry out their tasks as municipalities? You must increase fees, charges and contributions. [[Abg. You son of a bitch!]] That is to say, because of this unfair financial compensation, citizens are left with even less money in the cash registers because the communities do not get out because they have to achieve balanced budgets, which they do not create! So let's look at this: Under the rule, the population will often remain little to nothing, because, in addition to the burdens, the classified population key will, of course, lead to a disadvantage to the rural population. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now another topic, to the Vienna singer boys. There is also personal access: They spent more than decades on vacation in East Tyrol, in Pregrates. I hope they will go back there – Hohe Tauern National Park and so on. I would like, if I may, to maintain that, with all those objects that use the Vienna boys of singers, we have used them for the ban on interest-rate. That's important to us. Why do I say that? Because we do not agree with the financial template, but the ban on the interest rate for the Vienna singer boys of course. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e8703	I call Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e8724	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen at the gallery! For many years the same ritual: We don't want any debt and no more money in every department. But I never learn either. I would not have expected that a neo-black budget from a black finance minister would have been very well established, I would say that in all clarity, but you can stand up to my colleague, Mr Rebauer, as you want. [[Congratulation with SPÖ and NEOS]] [[Abg. Schönegger: This is against better knowledge!]] I wouldn't have done that, too, I say that in all clarity. I wonder, very slowly, whether we really need to vote in this mood. I believe that the Federal Government has presented a proper budget, for which we should all confess, I do. I would like to thank all the public officials, as I always do in the budget debate, for having to do the work that policy provides. And this time in particular, in the difficult situation in which we are, of course, coming from the international level to us, one has to thank the NGOs in all its clarity, because together – because Hans is looking at me just now – from the Red Cross to my Samaritans, from the police to the soldiers excellent for the Austrians. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Now he's not here, our friend, my colleague Hagen. So if I have already criticised the budget of the interior resort, for example: over €400 million, as far as refugees are concerned, more than €70 million in terms of classical security. If I want to, I will also take the area of defence with over €90 million for these measures. When I get back here and say, Who knows, does the money even come where it is written in and budgeted?, that means yes, you do not agree anyway. The figures show clearly before you, so I can say at least for all these areas for which we or I are personally responsible, that we take account of this difficult situation and have these additional approaches everywhere to deal with this difficult work. There's no place to hedge. Why he does that, I don't know. I believe that together we should try to deal with this difficult situation for Europe – if you want, for the Austrians as well as for the refugees – properly and decently, and therefore we must confess at these costs. But if I make this ridiculous, it's a failure, we don't debate at all, but go straight to a pair of sausages or a gulash. [[Rejoicing with representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I tell you clearly: It's about humanity. And I say on every occasion: We should not lose sight of dignity and humanity. I think we all agree that everyone wants more money for his area – for children, for education, for the whole range of politics. But I think it's always about the feasibility. I believe that in difficult times, despite tax reform, which has a proper volume, €5 billion, we have no question at all, despite everything here bringing together a total budget. Then we should be at least on the key dates. Otherwise, I invite you to think about what citizens think, not about the government, but about such a discussion. I cordially invite you, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e8796	I call Mr El Habbassi. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e8817	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Estimated Minister! We're talking about the budget today. There is quite a positive report about this. If someone is interested in education: It is positive that in the field of research and science a total budget of € 4.3 billion is available; it is positive that the Ministry of Education will also provide € 106 million. That's numbers. - So far, so good. But the important thing is that at the end of the day the money also comes to the people in the education system, to the children; and it is the responsibility of the competent minister, the minister, to take care of it. These figures alone mean nothing at all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] What we also need to say: In all the positive things that exist, despite all the precautions that are being taken, there are also figures that we must not hide in this debate. If we have revenues of €72 billion, spending €77 billion, then we have a delta of €5 billion. And that is exactly what the Minister of Finance is addressing when he says that we do not have a revenue problem, but an expenditure problem. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[intermediate calls at SPÖ and NEOS.]] He also says we should give pure wine to man. I tell you, the young people, and not just the boys, in this country get a Grant when the Social Minister stands up and says the pensions are safe. No one out there believes that in a few decades the pensions are still safe. No one believes you! If you don't wake up, dear friends of social democracy, if you don't realize that things are happening outside, that people worry about their jobs, that people don't have money to live, then you may wake up with Mr Pendl at the dinner, but that won't bring us on! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] What we need is reforms. We have to deal with the things that are open – calmly and objectively. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If we look at what is the biggest spending driver in this budget, then this is the expenditure for the pension system – exactly, for 2014 to 2019 about € 4.5 billion, 4.2 percent increase. [[Abg. Schellhorn: You're in the government!]] If we close our eyes and say that we do not need to do anything, I would like to briefly quote your colleagues Androsch: “There we drive 200 kilometres to the wall.” That's a statement from your party colleague Androsch on this course in these things. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] We have the fact that we are massively underfinanced in the Social Ministry – and I quote now – which is a massive problem. He also says I quote again: We can leave with the dirt. – And that's what people think when they hear your explanations sometimes. That is why I wish we were now working together in this coalition to address these reforms that we have been talking about for years. That's where I can tell you: I am involved when it comes to addressing these reforms. I am in the process of seriously considering an increase in the retirement age, or if we consider how we can react to this pension system. I am there when we say we want to get out of this middle, we want to bring Austria back to the top. I hope you will, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e8903	Mrs Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e8924	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! My dear gentlemen on the government bank! In view of the coalition conditions in this House, I have now become a little crazy. You don't believe it at all. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of NEOS and Team Stronach.]] Mr Finanzminister, who is heading, has been heard several times from your group. – What direction? Could you please tell us about it, please? But now to my topic: If you want to enlarge, improve or even stabilize a house, you are certainly well advised to look at the foundation first, because that is the most important thing. The foundation of a state is its demographic conditions, namely: Who lives here and how?, but above all also the question: Who will live here in the future? A country, these are country and people. It is people who develop ways of life, develop economic forms, create social structures and give themselves a certain political form. So how does it look with the foundation in our house Austria? Since the 1970s, that is more than 40 years ago, death rates have exceeded birth rates. It is not true that policy had not been made aware of. There are a number of scientists who have dared to draw political attention to this – I say dared, for they knew how dangerous it is to address this issue at all. Herwig Birg, for example, or with us in Austria, it was Helmututh Schattovits, who died in summer, made you aware that this development is bad, especially in a state that is a social state. – Tag Generational Contract; I can't roll it up from time to time, pensions, social state in general, but of course also economic location. It didn't interest most of you. Others who have understood have resisted it massively and have developed a concept that they themselves have called the concept of demographic compensation, namely compensatory immigration. The budget for the families, considered at this point, shows exactly this development. Let me quote here the family bishop Küng, who says: Children are the safest way to poverty. – It is even now, now more than ever. Stresses have remained largely private, but the benefits of children have led to the general public being affected by the social state. To quote Birg: ‘From children who have none (...).’ [[Accompaniment with the FPÖ and the Abg. Dietrich.]] The current budget will not change anything because it would require radical rethinking, and what has happened here is not even a drop on the hot stone. So what does that say about our ruling on this government? Let me take a scale that you too can safely comply with from the left half of the empire! I quote from Rousseau’s ‘social contract’. It reads in the chapter “Marks of a Good Government”: “If you are generally asking which government is the best,” you can conclude: "What is the purpose of political union? But nothing but the preservation and welfare of their members. And which is the most secure mark that they receive and thrive? The increase in the population.” – A balanced population statistics has been put into modern conditions. “In the face of equality of all other conditions, the government is the best among which without foreign means, (...) without colonies, the number of citizens continues and continues to increase.” – Or at least remains the same. – “The government, on the other hand, under which a people declines and disappears is the worst.” – Following this criterion, this government and the governments of the last decades have completely failed.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e9000	I call Mr Spindelberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e9022	If I have the opportunity to talk about the budget chapter of health, I would like to make the point that, despite a more than close budget path, it is clear that health is not saved. On the contrary! As Minister of Finance Schelling said yesterday in his budget speech, despite a budgetary setback that the hypo-debakel caused by the Carinthian FPÖ has succeeded in increasing the health budget by €86 million and thus further improving the population in the health field. That is why my thanks to our Minister for Finance are very special. If this federal government – and I stress this –, that is, SPÖ and ÖVP, have undertaken reforms with the current budget approaches, then I really welcome this, because reforming means improving. Therefore, my urgent appeal: Let's stop talking about Austria all the time! Let us also talk about the positive things in our country! [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Aubauer.]] There's really enough of them. This call – I am now saying quite consciously – is addressed not only to the opposition parties, not only to the Chamber of Economics officials who are talking about a sent down Austria, but also to the coalition partners, also because of what my previous speakers have said. These speeches – whether they be those of the colleague Tamandl, those of the colleague Nachbaur or those of colleague El Habbassi – do not belong here. This discussion is not to be held here. We have, together, tried to adopt a government programme, so we should not cut our heads here and now. That's not what I'm supposed to have for. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We want – and we have to go into the foreground – and for the third time in a row we will achieve a structural zero deficit. These figures are a good news for Austria and a clear signal that we are on the right track. It must be emphasized: We have achieved this zero deficit, not by making massive cuts in the social and health sectors, as in many other EU countries. No, we've managed to get the benefits in health. The Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development is pleased to note that the Commission's proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to turnover taxes and the laws of the Member States relating to turnover taxes on agricultural products has been adopted by the Council. An essential part of this reform is also the introduction of the ELGA Health Act, which will enable the future to improve the safety of treatment and thus also improve patient safety. But now – and this applies to all of us inside here – it is true to live up to all these projects. I expect the full support of all health care providers. I also very clearly expect that all the reforms planned will finally put patients and not just self-interest at the centre of all our actions and actions. We do not need blockers in the implementation, but partners who rely on them – and who are also willing to implement agreements already made for the benefit of patients.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e9104	Next, Mrs Mag. Aubauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e9125	Mr President. High house! I can come to the pensions from the so important health sector. What does this budget bring to our seniors? Facts check: Who benefits from the tax reform? At first, seniors with small incomes benefit. In other words, about one million pensioners do not pay income tax because their pension for tax liability is too low. This one million benefits from the new tax credit. This is important to us, because these people are turning around a few times already every euro. This brings concrete up to 110 € per year. Who benefits further? About 1 million pensioners pay income tax – this one million benefits from tax reduction. A pensioner with 2 400 € Gross pension per month pays around 1 000 € less income tax per year. There's your thousands of people you've made fun of here! Please expect: A pensioner with 2 400 € gross pension saves more than 1 000 € per year. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: Make a club meeting once!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] The tax reform benefits more than 2 million seniors, bringing a significant increase. In addition, the inflation rate will be 1.2 percent of gross next year. And something positive: The care allowance is increased by 2 per cent for all. All of this, ladies and gentlemen, is not so obvious in these difficult times. That's why it's nice that we did this together. But now we want to work together to achieve the next goal, namely to ensure pensions for the next decades. I am pleased that our Minister has also arrived in the circle of the Grandfathers. That is, he certainly understands the concerns of grandparents, because at last most of them want to have safe pensions for their grandchildren too. In his speech he said: If the pension system were a car, we would already have problems with the “pickerl” in a few years. What does that mean? We are living longer and longer, that is, most people are extending retirement time, and working hours are getting shorter. Longer pension and shorter work: It can't go out. We urgently need wise reforms. But no one needs to be afraid – don't worry! – because there is no intervention in existing pensions. It is about the future pensions of the next generations. We are in favour of the pension system getting a “pickerl” for good functioning in the future – here we are. I'll be there when we get Austria back to the top. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e9180	Next, Mr Heinzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e9207	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! First of all, I would like to say: A well-developed public infrastructure is the backbone of every good economic development. Without a well-developed and high-level rail and road connection or without a fast on-site internet connection, no company would settle in a city or community. Investment in the infrastructure of our country is therefore – I am really convinced – also a direct investment in the future. They create jobs, give people mobility and individual freedom and also increase equal opportunities. This applies particularly to public transport investments and particularly to investments in the development of environmentally friendly rail. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, another €14.6 billion will be invested in the expansion and modernisation of the Austrian rail network by 2021 – until then it is no longer too long. It is not aimed at this, but rather at pursuing a comprehensive strategy. This expansion strategy is to be read in the current 2016–2021 Framework Plan. [[Abg. Moser: This only uses the pendler!]] For the next few years, my colleague Dr. Moser, numerous projects have been launched, such as the completion of the four-track extension of the west line between Vienna and Wels, the extension of the Marchegger branch and the new construction of the Ebenfurth loop, as well as the link between Vienna-Hütteldorf and Vienna-Meidling, ladies and gentlemen! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Moser.]] In addition, several dozen railway stations are modernized and accessible and four large freight terminals are built. With investments in freight terminals, we create further incentives to move heavy traffic from road to rail. We all benefit from this, especially the environment. Additional projects are currently in the planning stage, and the construction of important projects was only recently started, for example with the Semmering Base Tunnel, the Westring Linz and the S 7 Principal Street in Burgenland. Ladies and gentlemen, this brief overview illustrates what the budget means in figures. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brunner.]] BMVIT is the most investment in job creation. It is my firm conviction that public investment must be made and expanded especially in economically tense times. Ladies and gentlemen, according to a WIFO study, these investments in the consistent expansion of the Austrian infrastructure will ensure or create 30 000 jobs. The IHS calculates that every euro invested in the infrastructure comes back twice. With these targeted investments in public infrastructure, we are building on a good future for our country. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e9275	The next item is the speech by Mr Vetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e9297	God, Mr President! Minister! High house! If I were Finance Minister, this budget speech would have sounded very, very similar. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] That is why I am particularly saying this because in this budget speech the need for reform in our country has been very clearly defined. [[Calls and calls between SPÖ and ÖVP MPs]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This budget is not one of the SPÖs and not one of the EIAs, it is a compromise. If the SPÖ had done the budget alone, it would look different. If we had done this budget alone, it would have looked different. This budget is a first step, but only in the right direction if we really implement the need for reform. I would like to highlight four points of this need for reform. First, the pensions: We all get older and all of us who understand the basic accounting methods know that we have to work longer if we want to get the same level of pensions we have today. This is a continuous process of reform and adaptation. This seems to be known to the population as a whole, but we in this House still have to internalize it completely. Secondly, the administrative reform already mentioned: We have a large committee of inquiry, which also has to do with the fact that there is a wrong relationship between the federal government and countries. We must therefore find a new balance between the federal government and countries so that we can also achieve financial stability at this level. Thirdly, we need to reduce the additional wage costs. It's not enough to dream of growth, we have to do something. Fourthly, we need to end the cold progression, best by law. We must say goodbye to the attitude that money is only good if it is in the hands of the state. Let's get people the money to work with it so that it really comes to growth. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the future is not in the linear continuation of the past. We are all in the need for reform. We are all under the obligation to reform. I'm with you. Let's get Austria back to the top! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e9376	Next, Mr Jarolim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e9397	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. I think you can only join it seamlessly: Our place is, of course, at the top of Europe, and there we belong and there we must go. It is therefore necessary that we lead the discussions in all directions. I think it's legitimate to talk about pensions too. But what we must realize then is that it cannot be the ASVG sanctions alone, which have a cover contribution of 84 percent, which means that the state will pay 16 percent. We also need to talk, ladies and gentlemen, about civil servants' pensions and also about commercial and agricultural pensions. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Loacker]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I know that's unpleasant, but it's necessary. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] For example, we passed a law here in 2005 under a government other than the current one, where we have the transitional period for adapting the civil servants' pensions to the ASVG sanctions of 45 years, ladies and gentlemen – no human being understands that! - have been holding. It's got to go! [[Congratulation of the Abg. Loacker.]] Of course, we need to adapt faster. Then we can talk about it. But it is not always supposed to appear as if on one side is saved and on the other side is not saved. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] There will be enough money out there, ladies and gentlemen. We should actually talk about that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] Because I'm just at this time: We have to implement the new Jugendgerichtsgesetz. This too is an example where you really burned a lot of money. That was Böhmdorfer when he closed the Jugendgerichtshof. We have the situation now that the young people are locked up in the closest room with the adults. We all know that this leads to a criminal infection, which is to end. You can see, then, how you have done the greatest damage to the country with decisions that were very easy to make – one that was from my point of view an evil decision. That was Böhmdorfer under the care of Mr. Schüssel. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] So there are many things we can improve, ladies and gentlemen. [[Call the ÖVP:Dr. Cuddle!]] I am here, but we should really discuss it widely and not just party-politically. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e9477	Mrs Himmelbauer's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e9525	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister Schelling called it our duty yesterday to address those areas that are facing financial or systemic challenges today and in the future. Of course, I do not want to say anything bad about what is happening in this country, because we can be very proud of a lot of things. But we must not, as a young person, be more conscious of this – rest on the reach of it. It is our task not only to think about today, but also to think of the morning and the day after – even if it is unpleasant and means change, because it is right and important to get back to the top. One of the challenges is how we maintain prosperity in this country. Many people are afraid of loss of prosperity because the crises of this world do not pass away because we are in an international competition and because current events and developments cannot simply be hidden. Austria is now a country with little land resources, little natural resources. All the more so, we must build on people and entrepreneurs in this country and support them in their efforts, for they are the foundation of our prosperity. This means continuing to reduce bureaucratic barriers so that companies can focus on their activities and ideas. That is to say, in the area of finance, companies, especially start-ups and SMEs, to make offers so that good ideas do not fail in financial resources. That is to force research and innovation. For the first time, we have achieved a research rate of over 3 percent. That's good, but we want to get even more, namely back into the group of Innovation Leaders. In order to achieve this, there is also a need for further incentives here. That also means creating the necessary infrastructure. For me, broadband development is a very important issue. Prior to this, it was criticised that the rural area had not been addressed. This is an important topic to close the divide between city and country, but also – globally speaking – to simply meet the requirements of time. Broadband is now a site issue for self-employed companies and families, for schools, authorities and for health care, in order to be able to use the potential of digitalisation. In all these areas, we are taking action in this budget. However, I am not going to fail to address where we still have to take action. I am not about to address the issue of government debt: over 85 percent of GDP, over € 280 billion – this is a brake for all future generations. We see in other countries where there can be a high level of public debt and a lack of reform: an inability for future generations to do so because they have to do away with the mistakes of the past. I would like to remind you: We also keep talking about the generation contract, but a generation contract is not only working in one direction. That is why I can only appeal to those who have not yet recognized the signs of time: Let us take up these reforms in the pension sector, in the labour market and in education! I'll be there when we lead Austria back to the top.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e9576	Mr Wittmann spoke next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e9604	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! A budget will again and again be in the tension ratio of opposition and government parties. One criticises and the other say that one can be proud of this country. With all the criticism of this budget, I believe that we have problems to deal with – we can look into the future. We are able to put in place all these measures, which can be positive, in order to continue to shape a prosperous future in this country. For me, it is only a little surprising if you use the budget speech to cut down the ministers of your own government – only from the other party. Mrs Tamandel, Mrs Fekter, Mr El Habbassi and Mrs Nachbaur! [[Abg. Vetter: What about me?]] When we talk about criticism of ministers, we should also talk about the Minister for the Interior. Unfortunately, I think she's overrepresented in this job. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Loacker.]] [[Intervocations and He-Rufe at the ÖVP.]] If someone knows for a year that refugee flows are on the go, then until June nothing is there and nothing is prepared, then the refugee camp is overcrowded and tents are set up to prepare a Vienna election, if one is still completely overwhelmed because after that much more refugees come and no answers are provided and finally a refugee coordinator is put to the side because one knows that one is too weak to solve this problem, then one has to say quite honestly that this criticism is appropriate. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler]] [[Call the ÖVP: Unbelievable! Unheard of!]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Walser and Mr Rädler]] Remember: You don't do that!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e9681	Next, Mr. Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e9708	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to speak to the previous speaker, but briefly to Mr Hauser. In one case, I'll give you the right to make up for the financial balance. This will, of course, be particularly demanding in the next few years. But the difference between your group and your group is that we are not only talking about it, but also doing things. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Hauser, since you are from a rural region and are arrested in the municipalities, one must also say: You can easily talk about pay cuts and you can promise people everything, but look at our rural regions, how clean they are together, that of course also costs money! In short, the rural and agricultural budget. [[Call the FPÖ:No problem!]] In Austria we have a very nice agriculture, a beautiful landscape, a beautiful rural area. We have thriving regions where very good farms are located. Agriculture alone in Upper Austria is an employer for more than 100,000 people, and we have to keep this in mind again and again. But of course you can also see that not only the economic engine, but also the agricultural engine stutters. In agriculture we currently have a very hard time ahead or behind us. Drying and dumping prices, low producer prices in the pigmeat sector, but of course also in milk make our farmers to create. Therefore, they need prospects again – and we do so with this budget. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If you don't believe this, you should read it in the Green Report – another 5% minus. The average gross income of farmers is 1 350 €. God doesn't know much. That's what we really need to do. I think we can secure many jobs with this budget and make it possible for the land-wide management to be restored to the mountain areas. What I am particularly pleased about for rural areas is, of course, the budget for broadband development, and my previous speaker, Himmelbauer, has already mentioned this. These €300 million are particularly good for the economy and agriculture, and we also need to do so. I am also pleased that the drought in the agricultural budget has also been taken into account. In recent years, farmers have had major problems either with floods or droughts. Climate change shows us that these incidents are increasingly common. [[Abg. Brunner: Then you should finally decide on proper climate change measures!]] That is why it is all the better, of course, that we also provide for funds in our budget. I think that this budget is really a sign for rural areas. [[Abg. Brunner: But climate protection measures are shortened!]] I am sure that this will give our farmers security and, above all, stability. The budget is a solid basis for forward-looking work and will bring us back to the top. I'm with you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e9780	I call Mr Wenninger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e9801	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! [[Call to the ÖVP:A word of apologise, please, my colleague.]] Yeah, that's it. How you call into the forest, it comes out! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Hello call at the ÖVP.]] I would like to make the discussion a reality once again, because we are the ones who are definitely involved in bringing Austria to the fore. As an environmental speaker, of course, I would also like to say a few words about the environmental budget, which you have to look at in detail. If we also want to bring Austria to the top of environmental policy and climate policy, we need not only ambitious climate policy, but also probably a somewhat more ambitious environmental budget. Nevertheless, I can live with this draft budget if implementation is the way we discussed it yesterday in the climate debate. We must guarantee that the funds are actually made available for what is important for Austria. It deals with the areas of green jobs, innovation, technology, ecological labour market promotion and economic promotion. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brunner.]] All of this is important to achieve the climate targets on the one hand and to boost the job engine in this area on the other. That is why I also have a request to those who have perhaps not yet studied the budget documents in detail: In addition to these resources, there are still those at the disposal of Minister Stöger in the Ministry of Transport. It has at its disposal 500 million € for research and energy alone, and in the energy sector it invests in 100 million €. These funds are, of course, not in the environmental budget, but in the budget of the Ministry of Transport. € 700 million will be made available for public transport order. It is about those areas where the rail cannot function profit-oriented, but where it comes to a shift from road to rail, to smart mobility and the whole question of traffic research, traffic technology. All in all, these €630 million environmental budget is a challenge. But I think we can work together to get to the top of environmental policy as well.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e9851	Mr Rasinger has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e9872	Mr President. High house! In the speech of Minister of Finance Schelling, I liked the quote “The truth is reasonable to the people”. I am working in a very positive area of health care. This is a positive problem, but it is always presented as a negative problem because it is always seen as a cost-discharge problem. Thank God, since I worked in health policy, there has always been the consensus between SPÖ and ÖVP to set the goal clearly, and the goal is to provide high-quality care for all, regardless of age and income. That sounds so loose. But it's not easy at all. There are problems worldwide in achieving such a goal at all. I'm just saying, Two-class medicine. As a doctor, I have to take a little trip: Schopenhauer has already said: Health is not everything. But when we're about to lose health, everything without health is nothing. – That is why we need to find a balance in the budget, but this also applies in general, because it is ultimately very often about money. We need to find a balance between driving and saving forces in health policy. An example of the driving forces: Since 1970 each of us has grown about ten years older, or every day we get 30 hours older, so we win six hours. [[Call at SPÖ:I've been 45 years older since 1970!]] Progress... [[Cheerfulness with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Call the SPÖ:Mr Doctor, you have to give me the recipe!]] – I'll explain that to you in a moment. There are also negative factors. We know from American studies that only legal and bureaucratic requirements devour 10 percent of health costs. I have looked at the OECD numbers very carefully. It does not come out of what is always claimed, as only yesterday, by a Swiss health economist. It is claimed that everything is so bad that the Austrians live in poor health for 21 years. This is really Humbug, because in front of us there are countries like Greece, San Marino, Bulgaria, Romania. That's a joke. I think that's a bad recording. On the contrary, I'm telling you something as a doctor now: In the past, a cervical fracture was a death sentence. Today, surgery is being performed, there is a new hip, and a week later the patient goes on rehab. Earlier it was not possible to reverse a heart attack, today you have four hours. Since the very latest, we know we have four and a half hours to reverse some strokes. We have got quite, very great grades at the European Cancer Congress – five-year survival rates. This has to be fought very laboriously, and it is possible. That's why I'm saying: The truth is reasonable! For me, as a doctor of Schopenhauer’s saying: Health is not everything, but everything is nothing without health. And that should also be expressed in the budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e9922	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Mulder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e9944	Mr President. Minister! Mrs. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! After the very positive chapter mentioned by my colleague, Mr Rasinger, I come to an equally important area in the budget, namely the area of housing. Of course, a major success factor in the residential economy motor is the livability of living. There is and remains a very important component of housing development. It ensures constant residential activity and ensures that housing remains quality and socially manageable. That is why the rest of Europe envys us. It can be seen from the draft budget that the housing aid contribution in 2014 amounted to € 935 million and rose to € 985 million in 2016. Ten years ago it was in about 682 million €. [[Call:... invest more]] The funds are used very differently. If we look at the country by country, we see that the means of housing are different. In Salzburg there are now one-time grants, or we can also say lost grants, which are partly very high – up to 40 000 € at single-family houses. This is not always an economic motor for building. In other words, the positive example of Vienna in the area of housing development looks like where the funds for the whole of the multi-storey residential building are put. This is also reflected in the draft budget. Under the item Transfer payments to the countries, housing promotion subsidies are also to be found. This is the bonus to be collected from the 2013 business package with co-financing for new construction funds. This amount was 4.4 million in 2014, increased to 32.8 million in 2015 and increased to 50.9 million in the draft budget. These funds for extended investments in residential construction mean co-financing and will probably be available mainly to the city of Vienna. Vienna will be able to co-finance and collect it accordingly. On tax reform, I could say that it also makes an indirect contribution to housing. The distribution period for maintenance and repair work is extended, which, of course, means alignment with the other writing-up possibilities, which originally depend on the duration of the inventory. Finally, I would like to say that the draft budget ensures Austrian housing policy with an appreciation of the savings targets and is a guarantee of Austria's positive special position in the quiet housing sector.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e9980	Mrs Bayr is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e10002	Mr President. Minister! Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is, of course, gratifying that we will increase the foreign disaster fund from €5 million to €20 million, which has never been achieved in recent years with 5 million due to very many disasters that we have had to support. The fact that the donation of bilateral development cooperation in the form of the Austrian Development Agency does not even remain the same is due exclusively to the fact that we are saving the €15 million, which make up the planned savings, in the multilateral field. This concerns, on the one hand, the United Nations and the United Nations institutions and, on the other hand, missions, for example in the States of Côte d’Ivoire and Congo. That's bad, because you take money from a development-politically relevant bag and put it in another development-politically relevant bag. It would be better if we finally had a level plan, better it would be, we would increase the resources for it, better it would be, we would have fresh money. I think Mr Kurz was not exactly the head of the Confession of Mr Finanzminister. What we are currently doing in foreign policy, especially in the field of development policy. Making rich is not a reputation for the UN site of Vienna, not a reputation for the international responsibility we have, and does not bring us to our ODA quota. I think it is important to see that issues such as dealing with refugees, with wars, with climate warming, with disasters, are of great importance. If one does not make a good policy on these issues, then in the future there will be a high level of opportunity costs which we can probably afford much less. As far as the future capacity of our foreign policy is concerned, there is a lot to be done. We are also negotiating a novel of the Federal Finance Act 2015. I would like to stress positively that there are already €10 million more planned for the current year. This is in line with the motion for a resolution that we decided jointly in September to do more in the international field. This concerns the financial support of refugee camps around Syria. Of course, it is gratifying that this is already supported by €10 million. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e10047	Mrs Hakel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e10068	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Once you have a quick look at the budget figures in the chapter Culture and Art, you can of course immediately see the reduction by €0.5 million. But it is worth taking a closer look at the budget before yelling and yelling out loud, because this reduction is quite easy to explain. This is a redeployment of personnel from the art and culture resort to the Federal Chancellery. Then, of course, one can argue that the art and culture budget remains the same. I would like to maintain that the refinancing of the construction costs of the museum quarter, completed at the end of 2015, will provide an additional €15.5 million for the award. Now critics will shout again: But they are already consumed for increasing the basic funding of the Bundestheater. - Yes, it is. 14 million of the 15.5 million flow into the increase of the basic salary of the Bundestheater. I have also said in the past that this increase is one necessary for me to ensure the smooth operation of the Bundestheater in the coming years. I would also like to say one thing: The closure of whole stages, generally increased closing days or drastic savings by staff to secure the Bundestheater financially would not have been in question for me and for social democracy. The €1.5 million that remain will benefit contemporary art and culture creators. Another €3 million is available through an agreement between the Minister of Finance and the Cultural Region, but they are not included in the culture budget. These €3 million benefit the regional cultural initiatives, which for me belong much more financially strengthened and secured, but also to innovative film creation. I find it also belongs to the Austrian music industry and also invests in the fields of young artists, photography and visual arts. Art and culture, however, also belong to the culture of one another: How do we include people in Austria who, for example, have to flee from a war? – I think of this: Tent camps, tent cities, a crowded Traiskirchen. I would like to say quite clearly and clearly that the Minister of the Interior has failed in recent months and that this is a shame for Austria. [[Hello call at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Wheeler: Again!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e10127	Mr Christ. — Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e10149	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Mr Finanzminister is here again, I greet you. You said yesterday that Austria is a cultural nation and that is what we are going to cost. Yes, you are right to book art and culture in the 2016 budget with €430 million. Unfortunately, you have not mentioned the sports nation, sport or the sports budget with any single word. Ladies and gentlemen! The daily movement unit as a foundation stone for an active and healthier life cannot be introduced in all school types throughout Austria. Why? – Because, for example, there is no money for leisure or exercise coaches in all schools. This would, however, bring 25 000 jobs for the future. There is a six-party request, you can remember most of the were here in the house. The whole of the Austrian sport supports the, 183 delegates have signed for the daily movement unit. We have integrated movement, sport and health into the school organisation law, now it only needs the money for the Minister of Education to be implemented. Estimated Minister of Finance! In the sports budget 2016, € 133 million is available for the whole of Austria: €80 million for the special, with a legal distribution key, €42 million for general sports promotion for sports major events et cetera. We all know, however, that sustainable success in broadband and top-notch sports requires essential conditions. Our athletes need training facilities that can be played freely and around the clock, or a new suitable national football stadium, everything at international level, to reach only a few points. But how should the Minister of Sports do this with €42 million of general sports promotion? In Switzerland, €300 million are available annually. Sport is a major economic factor. Each euro invested brings back two. Sports is a major job factor, with well over 300,000 people working in the sports sector in Austria. Sports is an indispensable factor in voluntary engagement, and more than 570,000 volunteers spend two million hours a week. Sports, however, also brings huge savings in health costs, experts expect savings of around 260 million euros. Sports and movement are also in the government program. Mr Finanzminister! I can say from sportsmen to athletes: Let's talk about the whole thing again! Investment in movement and sport are not a lost effort, but a profitable investment in our future. Let's talk about it again, it pays off! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e10198	Mrs Yılmaz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e10221	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We also invest in integration. That is also a good thing, because this is also an investment in our future. For many of them – not for all but for many of them – the achievement of citizenship is the conclusion of integration. But we also build up obstacles, so that this conclusion sometimes cannot be completed; just one example: the cost of citizenship. A family with two children has to catch around €5,000. In many cases, this is a family income of two or three months for these families. If we assume that they have saved this – for years – then when it is ready, the next obstacle is that family income is too low. I wonder, and I ask you: Is it really economic wise? We invest and people invest for themselves, too, so that they can integrate, and then we build obstacles and build walls to make them even more native. I think that this is really very, very worrying from the economic point of view. On the other hand, we know that people who came to Austria 20, 30, 40 years ago are more likely to enter our system than they do. – I emphasize: They pay more than they get. What would a good merchant or a good merchant do? – She would be superior to customer loyalty – customer loyalty, because he pays more than he gets out. And I would really wish, ladies and gentlemen, that Austria is a good merchant and that the obstacles are reduced and that people who put more into the system are bound to this country. [[Call the SPÖ: Time!]] It's time, I can thank you for the attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e10253	I call Mr Preiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e10274	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. We are living at a time with special economic challenges, and these challenges are largely taken into account by the 2016 budget in the areas of agriculture and rural areas. The financial framework for agriculture and rural areas for 2016 amounts to €2.1 billion, significantly more than in 2015. In my opinion, this is justified, in so far as two thirds of the people in Austria live and work in rural regions. This habitat must continue to be economically strengthened and secured in the future. It is therefore necessary to draw up a rural master plan, as agreed in the government programme. An important aspect is the area of agriculture. The details can be seen from the objectives of the action. The essential thing is that there is a sustainable strengthening of food production, economic security of farmed family farms and a package of measures for the extension of the organic farming sector. The basis for this is, for example, the market organisation and also the rural development programme, where € 850 million are planned for 2016. I would also like to mention – and this has already been mentioned several times today – that broadband development in the rural regions is to take place in 2016. Sage and write €300 million are intended for this purpose. I hope that this is not just a lip commitment, because it is an important question of survival that there is a fast internet in the communities for businesses and also for people in rural regions. Finally, this also strengthens agriculture. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In 2016, the action programme “High Water Safety Austria” is also funded with €200 million. The disaster fund is also available in the coming year, but it needs a higher financial donation. The Chamber of Agriculture and hail insurance have found that there are drought damage in the amount of approximately € 170 million this year, 2015. [[Call the SPÖ: Erwin, time!]] That means, in the future, there will need to be a correspondingly higher dosage, not just €5 million. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] What is the 2016 target? – That the rural family farms with income have more than the income and the food prices for the consumers in Austria remain manageable. [[Complementary of the Abg. Elisabeth crochet.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! I therefore hope that we will continue to have a positive development in agriculture 2016. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e10326	Mr Schelling spoke on a point of view. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e10347	Mr President. High house! I would just like to make a brief statement on the comments made by Mr Fuchs. The regulation of the Federal Minister for Finance on the technical details of security institutions in the registers and other data security measures has been published on the Ministry of Finance's homepage since mid-September. This Regulation must be sent to the EU Commission, notified there, returns at the end of November and will be published in the Official Journal at the beginning of December. All those dealing with this issue are already working on this regulation. All registry producers know what this Regulation looks like. I would therefore ask you to make a real correction for your actual correction, perhaps medially. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e10384	I call Mr Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e10405	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mrs. Federal Minister! A bit of excitement in all areas – perhaps you should summarize the facts again. Mr. El Habbassi is not in the hall right now – oh, he's here. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] This was in style and form an application for a different political group than for a government group. [[Abg. El Habbassi: That was a wake-up call...!]] - You won't be lucky, Mr. Cot. I'm afraid that won't happen. Only in general: If you take decisions together with us, you should stay on the bottom of the government programme, Mr President. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] And to suggest to the Federal Government that it has a kind of pension lie is first of all factually wrong, because the Federal Government has launched a number of measures that contribute significantly to consolidation. Secondly, it is also wrong from the political point of view, because the people who receive a pension today have developed themselves. It is inappropriate to pretend that you or others are paying it and that they are unjustly cashing, because they have built the country, Mr Cot. In this sense: Please do not go too far against our good Austrian system. I believe that we have a good social system and that the Federal Government is bringing it into a reasonable track with the right steps and a very careful procedure. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Cot, on the information: For workers and employees as well as contract staff, the tax or state share of the pension is significantly less than 20 percent. In 1955, 33 percent were planned. It's going to be well managed. We should think about the field of self-employed insurance, perhaps even more the farmers' representatives, because there we have much higher shares to be financed by the budget. So in this sense, I ask you to differentiate. The Federal Government has presented a budget that is tangible. And yesterday, the Minister of Finance did the right thing: For the third time, we have a structural zero deficit. Why this wailing? Mr Strolz speaks of what a big debt backpack this is – there is no talk of it at all! With this budget we reduce the share of public debt in relation to GDP. What you say is simply incorrect in content! [[Abg. Scherak: €5 billion more debt!]] It is a budget that has actually been achieved in this difficult triangel – structural zero deficit, economic promotion and tax relief measures for taxpayers through a tax reform that actually brings €6.2 million to € 5.1 billion per head, on average, €1 000 – on average. You can feel sorry for a lot as an opposition, but on the title of fortune teller I have to tell you: You, the opposition, have already told the Minister of Finance that you will not be able to do much in your prognosis. I am grateful to you, because these prognostics, who always say the budget is not being met, and then it will be observed that they could have been meteorologists. What do you think would have made this industry worse with your kind of predictive strength? In this sense, it's good that you sit here. You can say every year that the budget is not being met – we will keep it. We will also bring it together that this budget fulfills these things. Austria is one of the richest countries in the Union. With GDP per capita in 2007, we were only slightly more than 120, while countries like Ireland, the Netherlands and 140, 150 were. Today we are in the top field, a little below. We've been working well over the last few years. Our businesses have performed well. Our employees in the companies have worked well. Public administration is a slim and effective international comparison. The administration worked well. The infrastructure in Austria is good. [[Call:Very good]] So there's no reason to paint black here. Leave the black overpainting gifted visual artists! There's no reason for this. We have a good budget for a good country, and we will stay at the forefront.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e10487	Mr Auer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e10509	Mr President. Federal Minister! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! I would like to join where Mr Matznetter has stopped. He said we're a good country and we have a good budget. I underline that. But I have spoken for another reason, and I ask you to accept it is not for me to give an instruction to anyone, whoever. I just have one request. The Federal Minister Mikl- Leitner, Federal Minister Klug, all heads of state, all mayors, civil society and all of us are required to solve this greatest humanitarian disaster. This is difficult enough, this is dramatic enough. And if someone is not aware of it, then I may recall several photos of the drowned Syrian bub on the coast, lattice, barbed wire, where a mother crawls down with her child, because she flees and urgently seeks another life. [[the speaker shows a page of a magazine]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Hakel! In this context, I regret that you are talking about a minister's failure and that you are using the word "disgusting". It's up to you, me and no one. I ask you to take this into account, because in all the differences, in all the differences, to accuse a minister of inability and to speak of shame, is not appropriate, of no one – of anyone! – and not even within the coalition. [[Call: Sorry]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e10546	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[Abg. Rädler: This is a cowardice! On the back of the People's Party!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] According to § 69 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure, I agree with the Government's document 820 of the Supplements to the Budget Committee. [[14:53:24]] 2. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (796, e.g._Other Organiser Federal law on the occasion of the general comparison with the Free State of Bavaria, which amends the Rehabilitation and Resolution Act, the Financial Market Stability Act and the ABBAG Act (824 d.b.) 3rd. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (727 e.g._Other Organiser Convention on the transfer of contributions to the Single Resolution Fund and on the joint use of these contributions (825, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e10595	We now come to points 2 and 3 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr MMag has spoken on behalf of the PSE Group. DDr. Fuchs. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e10622	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! High house! Values Advisors! I spre- On the agenda item 3 and here again refer to the budget speech by Mr Finanzminister yesterday, in which he said that the funding environment for Austrian companies is difficult and that small and medium-sized enterprises in Austria in particular have worse conditions than in other European countries. The Minister of Finance is right, but for these bad conditions God is, unfortunately, the main responsibility of this Federal Government. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Agenda item 3, the Convention on the transfer of contributions to the Single Resolution Fund and on the sharing of these contributions, is not only another negative example for this federal government, as one can further worsen bad framework conditions, but also shows that one cannot rely on the commitments of the government parties to the legislative materials at all. Both when the bank levy was introduced in 2011 and when the bank increased in 2012, it was expected that banks would be charged with the bank's levy or the bank's levy would be removed if uniform arrangements were introduced at European level. By adopting Agenda item 3, we have a single system at European level, but we are no longer talking about accounting for the contributions from the funds to the bank. The non-eligibility of the fund contributions to the bank's tax represents a massive international competitive disadvantage of Austrian banks, which also negatively affects national lending, which is the key to credit clamping. The Austrian bank levy on banks in 2014 amounted to € 640 million. For comparison: In 2014, the German bank levy was only €516 million, which is 640 million in Austria, 516 million in Germany, although the German GDP is the tenfold of the Austrian population. Even if the fund contributions were fully charged to the bank, a bank levy of € 280 million would still remain, and that would still be the five to six times of the German bank levy in relation to GDP. Moreover, the Austrian model of the bank tax is a substance tax that banks also have to pay if they write losses. In Germany, on the other hand, the bank levy is profit-dependent and is also covered by the threshold and the load limit. In Germany, there is an endowment for the European resolution fund, in Austria, the bank levy in the budget narrows. Here too, the Federal Government could take an example of the German model. Since 2011, the Austrian bank levy has already washed €2.9 billion into the budget and has still prevented some €38.3 billion in new loans. This corresponds to 120 percent of all SME loans. It is in the interests of politics, economy and society that Austrian banks remain internationally competitive. The current system of Austrian bank levying is hindering banks in their development, growth and the building of equity, which is essential for a solid banking location. In addition, the bank levy removes from the market the volume of financing, without any steering effect. In order to provide urgently needed loans in the future, stimulate economic growth and thereby reduce unemployment, the bank levy must be reformed or be abolished. In any case, a 100% credit of the fund contributions must be charged to the bank. Mr Finanzminister! Eliminate the poor financial conditions for the Austrian small and medium-sized enterprises so that they can get credit again and thus, as a backbone of the domestic economy, ensure appropriate economic growth! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e10694	I am now interrupting the negotiations on points 2 and 3 of the agenda as well as the meeting.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e10723	I'll start the interrupted session again. [[15:00:54]] Short debate on the reply to the question 5832/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e10753	We come to the brief debate on the question raised by the Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, the Environment and the Water Industry with the order 5832/AB to the request of Mr Steinbichler. The above-mentioned answer has already been distributed, so that a reading by the writer is not necessary. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, no speaker/no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with a speaking time of 10 minutes for the first speaker to state his reasons. Opinions from members of the Federal Government should not last more than 10 minutes. I now ask Mr Steinbichler to justify the request and give him the floor to do so. Speech time: 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e10787	Madam President. Minister of State on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) [[The speaker places a poster on the speaker's desk, on which a glass of Nutella and a glass in which the ingredients of Nutella are illustrated.]] You have the request in written form, so I will give up reading. I am grateful for the fact that this debate on the response to the question takes place at a very favourable time of parliamentary work, precisely during the days of the budget debate and the budget debate. I should also like to refer to Mr Schelling, the Minister for Finance, who said that there is also responsibility for the ministry. He can only draw up the entire budget forecast, but every minister has stopped working and caring for his own budget. Mr Rupprechter, Mr Rupprechter, on this question, which concerns the commercial environment and the profits that can be achieved from the environment, we have in the last few days already discussed – it is quite clear – I believe that this has not been adequately answered – especially in question 1 and also in question 4, where you refer to OECD, which is why the form of this sovereign protection of nature is to be preserved. I can refer to today’s issue of the “South German newspaper”, in which the Secretary-General of the WHO expresses great concern about her job. [[Keeping a specimen in height]] She does this, of course, in connection with the diseases that are increasing internationally, but at the same time she complains that her job has become very political. I think that says a lot. This is a very clear language. On the question of biodiversity 6, Mr Minister, you give a very superficial answer, because the question is – we have also discussed this in the Committee on Agriculture and Agricultural Resources – how far a humus-increasing agriculture or the circular economy is taken into account, how far natural fertilizers are taken into account, how far close to nature, near soil, labour-enhancing, health-enhancing regional agriculture is honoured. In particular, the budget discussion pointed out that the framework for the budget chapter on agriculture is quite secure, but I have to point out – Mr Auer has already done so – that, although the framework is secure, the situation of farmers is strained, no matter what section it is about: from fruit farming to forestry, which fights with the bug report and drought, the cereals industry with problems due to drought to livestock and dairy farming, as well as the pig sector. All are most affected and, in part, do not achieve cost-effective prices. That is why we also call for the full cost calculation to be finally introduced so that we can explain to the population how the products are produced and the price formation takes place. But now on the topics, Mr Minister for Agriculture, where I am referring – that is also quite interesting, a very up-to-date report – to consider this trade with the nature of one: The US government has recently increased the customs duties on European butter, per kilogram to €1.78, and I do not understand why you are not responding as a responsible Minister for Agriculture. Now I come from the pointless exploitation of feed in biogas plants without prior use in the feeding area to the substitutes, to the analogue cheese, and in particular to the stolen foods from the rainforest – they are stolen; I come back to the health aspect – because they replace our natural fats quite massively. The healthy fat from the pig industry, the healthy fat from the dairy industry, in butter, in the top, this very ideal circulatory economy Greenland, native protein, refined over the ruminant stomach, is massively and brutally replaced by stolen fats from the rainforest. And for this you can also, of course, buy it here in writing, cheap shares with guaranteed 9 percent return. [[Keeping a document in height]] There are also arithmetic examples – this is always important when selling; I come from this industry –: If you buy 35 oil palms, which corresponds to about 0.25 hectares, you have to use 7 500 €; guaranteed return: 9 percent. If you have a little more money at your disposal, you can buy 140 oil palms, which cost 30 000 € and correspond to 1 hectare. Then it goes up: There is the example 16 with 560 oil palms and 4 hectares that cost 120 000 €. According to newspaper reports, the whole thing is sold as a sustainable investment – that is the true scandal! – and apparently also as a healthy alternative. This development has led us to already grow 18 million hectares of palm oil plantations on this planet. That is, we redefine the area of the states of Austria and Switzerland every year on rainforest. We also reddish rainforest for soya production for European industrial companies and we also reddish rainforest for rubber and rubber production. The population is paid very low. I would like to quote here again the recently published book “Land Robbery” by Kurt Langbein – now there is also the film of the same name in the cinema. He says, and this has to do with the current budget discussion if we do not change our Western economics, another 50 million Africans will come to Europe. We are creating international migration with our economy, and unfortunately many of these asylumists are not refugees of war, but most of them economic refugees. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Minister, on the income side – this will be particularly interesting to the Minister for Finance: I don't understand why you don't tax these fats, for example. Here I have two variants with which one is – deceptively similar – the variant for the consumer, the consumer variant “PHASE” – it even says: “like butter”. [[Keep the package in height]] How should the consumer recognize at breakfast if this is beautifully cut in the hotel or in the inn and laid on that the chemical butter is? The Austrian chemists are excellently trained: That tastes excellent, it's even more scrapable than butter – but I don't want to advertise for this chemical butter. Here is the commercial package: [[Keeping a pack in height again]] This is, of course, packed for the hotel industry and for the gastronomy in 10 kilos boxes. On the package a cooking hood and a steak, which is offered so, and 100 percent palm and coconut fat. Minister, I'm asking you: Why, if we take all the statements made in this area from the Chamber of Agriculture to the Ministry quite seriously, if we do not tax these fats? But I can add something – because it's even worse –: We deal with the Austrian biodiesel 33 000 tonnes or 13,000 hectares of palm oil. Here would be, I think, to get a lot of money. Another current example, because now the cold time comes noticeably: Around this time, we all like to light a little light, a teaspoon or a greater light, and it is coming soon All Saints. Many of us do not know that this is no longer paraffin – that is palm oil! A furniture group in Austria with a Swedish name alone consumes the same amount of palm oil we process in the biodiesel: 30 000 tonnes. In this context, we need to know what we do with our daily actions, with our daily actions! That is why, I believe, it is high time, Minister, that, in the interests of consumers, in the sense of rural agriculture, in the sense of the cultural landscape, climate and the environment, we should come back to a regional economy as soon as possible. I was happy to get the latest edition of the “Farm News” in my hands this afternoon, but I think everything is in it, it only has to be implemented: [[keeping a copy of this newspaper up to date]] We are supposed to stop soil destruction, because now we are coming from the surplus discussion into an alleged lack discussion. Or here: ‘Anuga 2015: Trend towards clear indications of origin’. – Yes, thank God, ladies and gentlemen! Let us decide in the next place. Agricultural Committee that the debate on the Austrian quality seal law on the Health Committee is coming into plenary here and we finally decide on this law! On the last point – and I would like to stop, but no one is dissuading –: If the new Novel Food Regulation is now being discussed at Anuga, Minister, and the EU Deputies...
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e10906	Ladies and gentlemen, come to the conclusion.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e10921	... and the EU Members – Madam President, this is already the final sentence – served as a tasting of insects, larvae and beans in locust sauce, then I say “meal time!” and ask to prevent that. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e10948	Next, Mr. Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Rupprechter on behalf of the European Democratic Group. Mr Minister, your speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e10967	Madam President. High house! I should like to comment briefly on the answer to the question in this debate. We see at the international level a very strong dynamic to evaluate nature and its achievements and integrate them into political decisions. The idea behind this trend is that nature is often made available free of charge and therefore exploited. An important international step towards an assessment of ecosystem services was the 2007 mission of G8 environmental ministers to explain the global economic benefits of biodiversity and the cost of biodiversity losses due to neglected conservation measures compared to the cost of effective nature conservation. As explained in detail in the written reply, in Austria nature and species protection takes place in a way different from that mentioned in the request according to US-American model. In Austria, as you know, regulatory provisions for the protection of the environment and nature will be applied, it will not leave to the market what is worth protecting and what is not. The US-American course of trade in nature conservation shares, combined with the approval of projects in which nature is affected, is not transferable to Austria. The Austrian practice of permits to protect public interests and the protection of common goods has proved its worth. This sovereign protection of nature is to be safeguarded. I'm honouring this law-abiding task. As part of a study, my department has been concerned with the issue of the monetization of natural and ecosystem services. The results show that a monetary assessment of ecosystem services poses a risk that the value of nature is seen only from the point of view of marketing. From my point of view, that should be rejected. Monetarisation should not in any way lead to a conscious purchase of ecosystems and their services through compensation mechanisms. In Austria too, some institutions have discussed how nature could be assessed. For example, the Austrian Federal Forests have commissioned a project with which the natural achievements, such as high-quality water Water supply, biodiversity or rest and recreation services, as well as local climate regulation and erosion protection are to be covered throughout and appreciated economically. These values are intended to make the achievements of nature aware, but they are not to be understood as prices. Another aspect, for example, would be the performance of a comprehensive agriculture up to our alpine regions, which keep the rural area open and provide valuable cultural areas. The prize of nature, in order to make it a tradable and interchangeable commodity, is not supported by my department. I also draw my understanding of responsibility for creation from my personal conviction that creation does not belong to anyone. As a Christian, my understanding is that it belongs to the Creator and creation is overreacted to us. For example, as you can see from the recent papal encyclical “Laudato si” of Pope Francis – she was recently praised in detail by Mrs. Klubobfrau Glawischnig in a joint panel discussion – it is precisely so that the key word of Genesis “May you be subject to the earth” is not to be interpreted in such a way that we should be allowed to control, exploit the creation, but that it is handed over to us for careful conservation and management and use. My department, Mr Steinbichler, also has no contact with US bodies or bodies dealing with the Green Investment in question. On the point of investment by Austrian companies in the Green Investments addressed, I should like to point out that the Austrian Society for the Environment and Technology, ÖGUT, in cooperation with my resort for more than ten years, has been examining occupational pension funds and pension funds in Austria with regard to compliance with environmental, social and ethical criteria. We can therefore confirm that no such investments are supported and made by these cash registers. If such issues and models are addressed at international level, Austria has always stated in its opinions that it sees the methods of determining monetary values for nature or its performance for the reasons set out above as critical or problematic, and in particular a prize is strictly rejected. On the question of palm oil shares: At European level, certification systems on imports of palm oil are being discussed in a comprehensive manner and initial steps have already been taken in this direction in order to avoid negative effects in the producer countries. My resort supports such efforts. In addition, specialized research and rating companies that analyse companies according to sustainable criteria also have a focus on palm oil. Mr Steinbichler, I am pleased that you are regular readers of the “farmer newspaper”. This is also the most important agricultural weekly medium for me, which gives me a valuable agricultural policy orientation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e11044	I would like to draw your attention once again to the fact that the speaking time of all other Members who have spoken is 5 minutes in accordance with the rules of procedure. Mr Wenninger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e11070	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister Rupprechter, thank you very much for the clear commitment to a commercialisation of the environment and also for this Bible interpretation. I always find it very refreshing – even in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection – when discussing environmental policy in the sense of the New Testament. [[Abg. Loacker: This is Old Testament!]] I would like to follow this up and appeal to be as consistent in the implementation as in the weekly visit of the Office. But now to the concrete: Unfortunately, Mr Steinbichler has not really devoted much of his speech to the question. However, I am grateful for the debate because it is not uninteresting which positions the individual parties have on such fundamental issues. I say quite frankly to you that I do not only hold out this commercialization of our society in the environmental field, but in principle it is not. There is nothing worse like television pictures, whether the CNN, BBC or some German channels, where democratic political decisions are measured solely by the impact they have on the stock prices, or when you see terrible images of natural disasters or migration movements and on the lower edge of the television the bar runs with the current stock prices. [[Abg. Lugar:... show the weather!]] I think this is inhuman and I believe that the Austrian Parliament must find a clear position in order to counteract this mainstream. In principle, this concept, which you address in your request, is a very old one from the 1970s, but is always on the rise. At that time, it was rather seen from the point of view that nature and the environment were not important to us and that the society, which is increasingly thinking of financial engineering instruments, tried to evaluate what nature could be worth to us. In Austria too, active environmental policy began only in the 1970s. I remember, without wanting to provoke anyone now, to the first Austrian environmental ministers in the era Kreisky, in which it was really about taking the Austrian bathing lakes and the Austrian rivers seriously for the first time. In the countries, the first laws on nature conservation have emerged. It was also good to tell the population that everything is not free. It must also be worth the care of nature, the environment, the recreation rooms, the alpine areas et cetera, also in the agricultural sector, society. But it is dangerous to evaluate exclusively financially, because, of course, the attitude can also arise that one may no longer want to do some things and then the balance sheet is taken and said: Well, the care of the Tyrolean pastures costs so much. Is this even worth so much to us in a social, budgetary manner? Maybe someone could come up with the idea to say: This is not worth anything to us, it doesn't matter whether Vienna Forest meadows are still maintained or not. It is clear to social democracy that we are opposed to any commercialisation in this area. This is also the basis for a basic scepticism against the Free Trade Agreement with the USA, because we are not sure that there are not great American interests behind it, which is also being implemented in Europe. Nature spaces are infinitely valuable, and the environment cannot be surrounded by a price marker, which is for us Social Democrats Credo.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e11128	Next word reported: Mr Höfinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e11150	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Steinbichler, undoubtedly an important issue that you have discussed here, but as we are unfortunately accustomed to it by you, it is a mix of topics that you will be staying here in a short time of a few minutes. You mix these topics across and across, draw out the most curious conclusions and, finally, what is paradoxical, you say, the minister is guilty. [[Rejoicing and condolences with Members of the NEOS.]] This is certainly not the case, and I think we should also take this discussion in an orderly manner and focus here on the subject of the question and draw our conclusions from it. The fact is, and this is what the Minister of State, I think, in his reply to the question, very detailed and clear: From the Austrian point of view, there are no ambitions, nature, the environment, all that surrounds us, really a monetary stamp. We have another access to nature. We therefore have great responsibility, as the Minister has said. If I stand here as a representative of agriculture, I must say, I see this in a great context, where I think we cannot often point out enough that we are dealing with this nature in a sustainable way. We have achieved great success not only in Austrian agriculture, but also in many who are on our side. A change of consciousness has occurred, and I can only ask you to contribute to this change of consciousness. Why? – Nature is at our disposal, and it will lie with us what we make of it. We can, you have already mentioned it, Mr Minister, only make sustainable use of this nature in order to pass it on to our children and grandchildren, because they also want to find an intact environment, an intact nature. However, we transform this nature into excellent products. We transform this nature into quality of life. People feel comfortable in this country, and they know they are provided regionally, with high-quality products available to us. That must be our intention to further strengthen this consciousness, because finally and finally it is always a question of value: What is it worth for us to preserve our country, our nature, our environment in this way? This is also reflected in the products. Our farmers produce on highest standards, on environmental standards, on animal welfare standards, and thus supply the market every day with high-quality products. There we are in competition with international competition, with those who perhaps exploit this nature for the first time and make a lot of money for the second. This can only be an appeal to consumers, to all of us, to go through the shelves and consciously reach out to our products that have been produced under these high-quality standards and can show even more ingredients than many others that are created across and across thousands of kilometres from around the world. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This appeal, I think, should we pass on, that is our commitment. Dear colleague Weninger, thank you very much, we often go side by side. I do not understand, however, the constant attacks of the Chamber of Labour when it comes to the fact that the food should be too expensive again. Once it has to be laid down stone and clear in this country that we produce too high standards, and that has its value. I hope for you that this will really be carried out by your side, because we know how hard the competition is outside our farms and that we can only continue in agreement here to maintain these achievements in a small-structured agriculture. [[Abg. Wenninger:... we are behind the farmers!]] The more farmers disappear from their farms every day, the more difficult it is to ensure that what we are so proud of in this country is really sustainable. In this context: Thank you very much, Mr Federal Minister, you have answered the questions very clearly. And I can ask you for your support in this overall context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e11201	Mrs Winter's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e11223	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Höfinger, I have to give you all the right: This thing about the expensive food, which is simply not right, because looking back, you can see that almost 20 to 25 years ago, people spent almost 30 percent of their income on valuable food. Nowadays, it's almost 3 to 5 percent. So you really need to change a lot. [[Abg. Wenninger: Is this good or bad, Mrs. Colleague?]] On the current topic: Dear Leo Steinbichler, you know, I appreciate you, I appreciate your requests and I appreciate your work in the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Agriculture. [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Abg. Lugar]] But one thing I have to ask myself: In fact, I think we should be used to the fact that the Minister answers questions very briefly and poppig, pardon, peppy. I think that this answer to the question was actually perfectly okay. It points out that a commercialisation of nature in Austria is not wanted, not wanted, nor supported in any way by the highest places. [[Abg. Lopatka:... new allies!]] Nevertheless, I also absolutely believe that the commercialization of nature in the non-profit area belongs. What the Americans are doing here is really cruel, you have to say honestly. But what would really interest me would be the following: They hit about $4 billion to $5 billion in capital, and the question is whether this is intended, because then it would have a meaning, or in what way it is actually used. Something has made me think a little bit, the answer to question 4, which is whether this US model has been discussed at European level or not. The answer came from the Minister: not specifically discussed. – Not specifically discussed: There's not a little pregnant either. Either you talked about it or you didn't talk. And what happened? Question 5, by this Green Investment and TTIP: The fact that one refers briefly to the Minister Mitterlehner is something of his own and is to be questioned. However, it can also be quite simply justified by considering these three trade agreements CETA, TTIP and TiSA that there is an actual great secrecy in Brussels. If you inform yourself about this and try to inform yourself, then you know that there are only a few hours where Members – and only hand-picked Members – can at all understand these papers, that mobile phones, cameras and the like must be placed before, so that you cannot control them and cannot penetrate outside, which is actually contained in these agreements. However, CETA has already been negotiated with the EU and Canada, TTIP is still at work at the highest level of secrecy. For me, TTIP is something like a blank check with which the countries actually deliver to the global player of industry. What can be done about it? - I don't know. I think it's gonna be like this. TiSA is the next, which actually poses a major threat to agriculture, the environment and Austria. There are currently negotiations between the EU, the USA and 21 states. This is about liberalising the markets. This is also the case in our case with water, which concerns education, which concerns energy. So I understand that there are great resentments and that there is also a very strong attempt to act negatively against them. It's just a cover-up and secrecy, and I don't think that can mean too much good. I like a No of the Minister for Palm Oil Shares, or the indication that there is a great deal to be considered here between the security of food in his own country and the way in which the country is fed or robbed. I would like to say something about this palm oil proposal: If you already stand for the Autarkie – and I believe that you, Mr Minister – for the food autarchy in Austria, then it is somehow difficult to understand why our request for investment promotion for the conversion to or the re-purchasing of tractors with vegetable oil engines was rejected in 2014. As a countermeasure against the deaths of farmers, the farmers suffered a great deal of damage when the so-called agricultural diesel was abolished, they could have been very well supported by the farmers. Now in retrospect and as a final sentence: On the occasion of the food crisis in 2008, Ban Ki-moon has shaped a very incisive sentence, and I think that should be taken along with all our speculators...
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e11271	You just need to formulate it now, please, because it's the final sentence! - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e11286	And that's... “Nothing is as depressing as hunger, especially if it is caused by man.” I think this is a sentence that we should not write to ourselves, but to the corresponding financial markets behind our ears! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e11316	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e11338	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! This question debate we have today is very interesting in that it is based on an ORF contribution in the “World Journal”, and this ORF contribution has been made on the best-developed capitalism that exists, namely the question of whether financial speculation can also take place in the area of nature conservation. – In fact, that is the content of history, it is. Nature conservation is organised through stock markets in the USA. I have heard the commitment of the Minister and also of my colleagues: The commercialization of nature is not desirable. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact is that in the capitalism of resource consumption progresses, the consumption of natural resources, from water to air to minerals et cetera, and indeed, through the scarcity of otherwise Ubiquitary goods happens, of course, monetaryization. – Yes, our water now costs, and so on, and in our air it may be if it is bad that, for example, in China access to healthy air, too good air will suddenly be charged once again. We must see that this is a question of capitalism and the limits of capital. That is the question and the excitement of this question – because the question arises where the trip is going, Minister. And you are called for here as an Environment Minister, namely in connection with TTIP, with the so-called Free Trade Agreement, which is basically a Group Trade Agreement, which is a matter of meeting the interests of Big Players on both sides of the Atlantic, workers' rights, environmental rights, citizens' rights, as far as consumer protection is concerned, but more than at risk. We see this in all aspects that are currently being discussed internationally. You, Mr Federal Minister, have meant that you would have answered all of this in detail anyway. – From my point of view: No! because, for example, you answer specifically the question of the investment of our pension funds and funds with ÖGUT, with the Austrian Society for the Environment and Technology. This club, he's checking these checkouts? - Yes. But which one? – Of the nine pension funds, eight have a certificate, one of the 14 pension funds, and that only in a small part. Ladies and gentlemen! That is to say, the fund's investment policy in Austria and internationally is anything but a sacrosanct, because it concerns agricultural funds, resource funds, investment in this highly profitable area. And as Minister for the Environment You can still lose a word today that this is a problem. In this context, I would remind you that the American Soybean Association, in its opinion on TTIP, is very clear, but very clear and clear, what it wants, namely from the American government in the TTIP negotiations. Its three main demands are: The traceability and labelling of genetic engineering products, as the EU currently has, have led to massive disadvantages for the American soya industry, with the decrease of 84 percent of exports to the EU. - That's point 1. Point 2: The directive on renewable energy, namely the EU's sustainability certification, is strictly opposed because American agricultural conditions are not included here. Point 3: It has clearly said that the European Union’s 2009 pesticides regulation is dangerous because it could hinder US imports in the future. These are the facts, and this is what the top representatives of American agricultural lobbys and industrial sectors say. So, please, that's just an example. You can also have this from the export industry, from all other areas of the USA. I can deliver all of them to you, because they are publicly accessible, in the US Department of Agriculture online. You can download yourself, Minister, if not, then I would like to bring you to the ministry. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This, ladies and gentlemen, is the challenge: clear shipping as an environmental minister. As such, you should have said clearly today: TTIP is a huge danger, as is the case with Kepler University in an environmental policy study by Sep- Tember, who is present, says: a great danger to Austrian consumer rights, a great danger to European consumers. If you had read the “standard” today – TTIP is dedicated to the downfall; there Pierre Sauvé, Canada’s NAFTA negotiator, is quoted – then you would also be well advised to finally show the flag and put yourself in the ranks of those who want to prevent TTIP and advance environmental and social standards in Europe. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e11407	The next item is the speech by Mr Pock. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e11428	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! I would like to mention the fact that I am very surprised by the discussion. And I can only hope that the spectators, Popcorn and Cola, had in front of the televisions, because this is a parliamentary joke. As a result, the Stronach team requests a brief debate on a parliamentary question, but does not talk about its content. You're talking about agriculture, you're talking about a hundred other things, about the mountain farmers, but you're not talking about the topics that are included in the request. Then there is a Federal Minister who prefers to quote the Pope rather than science. I would hope that, when it comes to environmental policy, science has a priority over the Catholic Church. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] The agricultural speakers jump on it, talk about our regional products and appeal: Buy in the region! But the whole debate is not taking place or hardly on the subject to which we should actually talk. What was the original content of Mr Steinbichler's question? – Their great concern was that capitalism makes itself subject to our nature, uses it economically in any way, and that people in our country no longer have access to natural resources. I would like to say something about a few points now. We must make a very strong distinction whether we value economic values or economic values. In the field of economic evaluation, for example, the Umweltbundesamt has made a very solid study – like the TAB at the German Bundestag – which is essentially a very different subject. The resources we are talking about are usually a public asset, which means that they are available to all people to the same degree. But if, now, individual production companies, individual transport or anyone else use part of the public good and it is no longer available to the others, you need to know what damage it has caused. This is the case, for example, with the CO2 certificates. [[Abg. Steinbichler: Didn't you listen to me?]] The economic recovery would, in turn, be that one actually sells something that is available to the public in any form. NEOS clearly acknowledges that we are assessing economically because we want to know: How do our eco-services work, what value do they have, how do we need to protect them, and what damage does individual action result from? We are not available for economic exploitation. The other point is – and there are again particularly unqualified reports from the ÖVP: We're talking about our nature, our nature conservation, we're talking about environmental policy. And what happens? Then we'll talk about TTIP. But TTIP has to do with this area – your request is about how we will implement it nationally, how we will do our public good to evaluate our natural resources – only on the verge of doing so. And we are discussing half of the time about the Free Trade Agreement, where we do not even know the content. So it would be my wish that the House would get all the information about TTIP. But I think we should have a discussion on issues where we actually have something to say. Now comes another last point, which I think is very important, namely the nature protection issue which the Federal Minister has very clearly mentioned. We have the same problem in the field of nature conservation as in all other areas: We have, for example, Nature Reserves, where, when they go over three federal states, there are three Directorates, with three offices, with three administrations – for a park, because each state needs its own management and its own administration, which means creating its own posts again. If you talk to the local people there, it becomes clear that they would naturally want a common administration and a single contact person. That is why, if we are already talking about nature conservation and a little away from the economic evaluation of eco-services, we need to say: We need a federal framework competence for nature conservation, where we define uniform standards, a slim administration and no unscrupulous and totally false discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e11483	Reported as follows: Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e11504	Madam President. Minister of State on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen, listeners on the gallery and on television! Mr Pock, thank you very much, that was a very good contribution. I decided I wouldn't give you this copy because I wrote it, I read it myself. [[keeping a book entitled “Land Robbery” by Kurt Langbein in height]] I'll give you a new one. That is, I believe, absolutely necessary, and I leave you – you are a super-educated person – to evaluate your statements. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I am not only informing myself, Mr Minister, in the “farmer’s newspaper”, that was an exception today, but of course also in the Internet media. I can quote here reports from GLOBAL 2000 and South Wind. Mr Pock, I do not know if this can be reconciled with your liberal attitude. This morning certainly many of us – at least – already enjoyed orange juice at the hotel. Although we know that our Styrian farmers are sitting on the mountains of apples, orange juice is now easy to hold. And if you read these reports, what happens in the Brazilian orange plantations, that there is worked with the most brutal chemistry, the workers get an hour, at twelve hours of day work – well, then we talk about free trade! Now I am with you, Mr Hoefinger: I would ask you to analyze once in your own market community Sieghartskirchen, how many farmers have already closed there! – I don’t want to preface it, I just looked at it on the Internet. And what it means when hundreds of thousands of small farmers have closed in Austria, one sees – and there we are at the discus- sion we had yesterday – if you have to drive through Linz at 7 o'clock in the morning. People must continue to work when the regional area, the rural area, is bleeding out. These are the actual facts we are talking about. And then, of course, we also have the topic of chemistry; I come back to the orange juice again. You can read this from René Tombs at www.natureheilt.com: “An orange juice, please! But without orange and juice! – demand and reality between marketing and the food industry.” And that's where we're gonna land. Then we are at the meatless sausage, finally we have the healthy animal protection environment, then we are with the substitutes, at the analogue cheese, then we are at the fat from the rainforest. Mr. Minister, you didn't give me an answer, that was not enough again: Can you imagine such a fat tax quite specifically as a fair intake? If the Americans tax our butter, I think it should be possible that we will also make national levies here and then make the money available to consumers, regional agriculture, the environment. It has already been pointed out today that we need more budgets in the environmental field. The statement from you in the programme “In the Center” that we need TTIP to be able to offer our organic food to the Americans has become obsolete because already in 2012 the bio-organisations have concluded a contract with America that may already export. Only: We have nothing to export. Mr Minister, please speak with a qualified supplier in the gastronomy and hotel sector: 80 percent of organic imports, because of the natural need for large quantities, need standardized quantities. That's reality. This is what we want to prevent, Mr Pock, when we think about the right policy. And I can use that for myself. Each of my ways of thinking I connect with: What do I cause with my daily actions, with my daily actions for my 13 caps? The children judge it themselves. But I am concerned about the consequences and actions we will have for these 13 anchors, with regard to health, with regard to the environment, with regard to climate, with regard to quality of life. I think that must be the basis of our actions. It was said that there is only certified palm oil – one could now also talk about Soya and so on –: That's worthless! This RSPO certification is criticized by 280 NGOs who say: That doesn't make any sense. The rainforest is still being rode, but the people are still being driven and tormented there. Finally, another example of income: In these plantations a worker with seven children receives 25 € per month. 25 €! See Kurt Langbein! Yes, of course, this woman sends her children to travel the first day they are transportable. And that's the very decisive thing: We need a fair system! Then we'll all be better together. Then, of course, the Minister of Finance is also better with his budget, because he can put on real revenue and not make tax increases over the back door and has to burden the working population again. From this wait I ask to see the discussion. And I am convinced that we are doing the whole population – the whole population! – with it something sustainable good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e11593	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[15:50:15]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e11614	I will resume the negotiations on Agenda items 2 and 3. Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Zakostelsky. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e11638	Madam President. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! But above all: Dear countrymen from the Styrian district of Bruck an der Mur! Welcome here at the Hohen Haus! [[General condolences.]] [[Bravoruf des Abg. Kogler.]] The President-in-Office has already said that we are going back to Agenda items 2 and 3, which are being negotiated under one. Point 2: Vulgo General comparison with the Free State of Bavaria; Point 3: the resolution regime for banks. Ladies and gentlemen! As we know, the hypo – I am not starting here with any debt allocations – has cost us numerous billions. We can neither revise nor reverse that. Today and for the future, the focus must be on a serious and appropriate solution that will burden our taxpayers as little as possible. The innumerable court proceedings between Austria and the Free State of Bavaria, the Bavarian Land Bank and the Hypo, or now the ITA cost a lot of time, money and energy, threatening to become graves of time and money when they are led over many years. That's why, you know all this, for now, it's a statement of intent. The negotiations of our Minister for Finance are, I believe, very, very highly appreciated, because they have also cost a lot of energy, with the aim of ending these infinite legal disputes. Such an agreed general comparison offers the opportunity – we know that is already written on paper – to actually limit the risk to the Republic by 1.23 billion. Currently, and this has already been discussed today, we read in the media that the Bavarian Landesbank does not really want to end a procedure. To this end, it is only important to say that soon, given that this will not affect the risk of the Republic of Austria. The reason why this procedure should be continued is in legal detail, as the procedure is already very advanced. But as I said, no impact on the risk of the Republic of Austria. I believe that this is very important for us here in this regard. However, the general comparison is also accompanied by a measure which allows the creditors to participate in the failure in order to express it so politely. However, the creditors will vote on it – a corresponding qualified majority is necessary, that is 66 percent – whether they accept this quota or not. In this context, also an intensive discussion point of the last days and weeks, it is very important to mention that financial market surveillance – we have discussed this intensively with the Ministry of Finance – indicates that these proposals for legislation, which are at the table here, will not have a direct impact on the obligation to provide the loans granted to the federal states. A very important clarification. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is up to all of us – and I am calling on our colleagues from the opposition, in particular – to take this step along and empower the Minister of Finance to actually conclude this general comparison. I believe that this is where a large throw is in the interest of our taxpayers. And I would like to thank the Federal Minister once again at this point. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In addition to this important general comparison – I have already said it – we also have the issue of creating the foundations of a single resolution mechanism, as it is so well called in Europe, for banks on the agenda. Summing up very quickly – Mr Fuchs has already made some essential remarks –: The aim is to settle and reorganise credit institutions in need in the future, without tax money being considered. That is why a separate resolution fund will be set up for this purpose over the next few years. In this context – and this is something I would like to stress; this is what Dr. Fuchs mentioned earlier – it is important to point out, in the sense of our citizens, who are also customers of our credit institutions, that there should be no double taxation, no double taxation of domestic credit institutions, because this Single Resolution Fund, which is now being set up, serves exactly the same purpose for which the bank tax has been introduced for that time. It is not a question of abolishing the bank levy, but it has simply become obsolete if one does not want to come to a double taxation. Ladies and gentlemen, in total it can be summarized that there are very sensible legislative proposals on both agenda items, and I cordially invite you that we proceed once again unanimously and jointly decide on the two legislative instruments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e11718	Next word reported: Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e11739	Madam President. Federal Minister! Yes, the Rules of Procedure would have made it clear that at least some open question remains, otherwise there would not be so many counter-notices here. But I don't want to go out on this primarily, but I want to say something to the comparison with the Free State of Bavaria, then to the solution all around, with Carinthia, into Carinthia and then to make a final comment on the whole. In fact, it is so - we repeat it often enough - that the President-in-Office of the Federal Finances has once again shown a decent desire to act. This plays a role in particular in this stop of payment, which is not at all discussed here, once into the HETA, with all possible consequences. This is about the agendas that concern the Carinthia. But I'm starting with the Bayern comparison. – Well, it is certainly so that this legal peace has a high value. How high this is quantitative is difficult. It is probably that way – quite precisely we cannot say that, after all the information I want to praise, but where we cannot look into the last – that, due to judicial rulings in the last instance, Austria may have bad chances to enforce itself here. There's a lot of procedures. However, I do not want to spend much longer on this, which is difficult to see even for experts. But one thing remains, and I still have to get into the past, I can hardly leave it out here: The whole Pallawach was created because it was so badly negotiated. No one can talk about it. You have to imagine this: The main proceedings, by the way, for reasons which perhaps the Minister should explain, and not I with my speaking time, the main proceedings, where this is ultimately about many billion, gross sum plus interest: 8 billion – but that's more than 8 billion, than the hypo hole is now large – will not end, but they will continue to run. That may have tactical reasons now. Explain that! But that this came about at all, the story has to be broken once on the tongue. Austria starts in the responsibility of those finance ministers who have bought back this entire broken bud – I am not talking about states, because it was nationalized by the Bayern – the liquidity that the mother, the BayernLB, had in the bank, paid back freshly and cheerfully. Then someday, two, three years later, Mrs. Fekter comes up with the following: Hello, our poor Seppi Pröll could have been introduced by the Bayern!, and says we are now looking for many arguments why we have been put in there, and commissions the very valued expert Kleiner, a Grazer who, by the way, has clearly expressed himself to all these processes. This one comes by the way: Hello, the whole reimbursement is less liquidity that you could or should pay back, but rather was the Bude who already broke the mortgage at the time so much that you would actually have to consider it as a capital replacement from the owner's point of view – this idea also a little bit of insolvency law. That's why the whole thing is a capital replacement, but that would mean: If there had been evidence of over-indebtedness or at least a special risk at a sufficiently low level at that time, then the money should have remained in the bank, but now in the Austrian mortgage, HETA. Said, done – a few more opinions, and you're on the path. Now we are hearing yesterday that the current ITA management has not been tried at all because it is obviously objectively difficult to demonstrate that there is over-indebtedness. That's what I'm asking myself. This terrible sequence obviously continues in the years. Now – I have to stay in the form of opportunity, we are not sure – it can be that, while weighing all things, this is still the most important thing. I'm sure I'm not. We can't look into precise opinions either. But what remains is by the way: From the open sum we may now win back half. However, since we have already paid half and then have come up with it, we could actually keep it – and then there has been complaint and counterclaim – in the case of the Bayern, three quarters of the money are gone. Because half of the half we want to save ourselves is just a quarter. That means that this is not good in the final result, but I may not be able to formulate it better. And all of this is the consequence of this unskilled re-stateization and of the fact that from the first day on you have not tried to see, just as at the negotiations there, what all this has for a character, which has flown around in money, and has not gone here and said from the first day on: Wait, dear Bayern, we won't pay you back! – It may have been that there have been other parts of the contract that have left us in a bad position. We're going to make it clear. The current solution, as far as Carinthia is concerned, is again quite another construction site if it is a solution. The Minister will explain, that is all very complex. I am very skeptical when it comes to cleaning up this whole thing – and now it is still about an open hole of €8 billion, I fear, more than €10 billion, where it is about maximum creditor participation – that this whole process, though with expertise from the Federal Ministry of Finance, is being pushed to Carinthia. There are a few technical legal arguments that the federal government cannot simply beat out the liabilities of Carinthia, if I have understood that correctly, but I prefer a course of action, and on which I think we should orient – I cannot see that this proposal is 100% fulfilled –: Maximum creditor participation means that when it comes to this debt ratio, it is appropriate. I hope that you will maintain this threat scene and that Mr Chancellors and Vice-Chancellors will not fall over again, as they have always been. - Yes, please! [[Abg. Krainer: But a backdrop is a backdrop!]] All of this goes only if you follow any line. And now it's clear what's going to happen: Either it is because there is no voluntary agreement with the creditors before. And they have to assume – that's quite logical – that they don't get much more than with this debt cut. And the question is: What is the purchase from the Carinthian liabilities worth? And since I say, it can't be worth a lot, because these creditors should have known for a long time that, at least 10 to 15 times, if you want to, the transfer of liability – as measured by the budget of the country of Carinthia – can never have been a serious guarantee of the country of Carinthia. That was a fake, as it was then. Carinthia could never hold for €24 billion, even for the €11 billion that are still in the book. Don't go! And the point is: In fact, all the creditors had to know. And many critical reports, from that of Dr. Griss to all the other possible ones, go into this argument. Legally, all of this is much more difficult, that's clear, just: In the end, the investor is also one who looks for time and money and not just for jurisprudence, and one has to maintain this variant: When it comes to cutting the debt – and then we see where you stay in Carinthia, because there is not much to get there except a few hundred million euros – for that we would also confess to the future fund – then it is out! And that's very, very little of it. So it will or should be a relatively easy – economically considered – to get it out with a small extra charge. Whether that adds to the carinthia in a side letter or not, it's us. It can't be that the poor Carinthians are supposed to go into this negotiating position, according to the motto: they're supposed to deal with all of this, and in the end they get the liquidity from the covenant. – I think it’s a lot better, the whole event takes place around the Federal Minister for Finance, who is doing this, and with Carinthia you have to make a separate agreement. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I still think that this is possible, and I wish everyone a great deal of pleasure to understand these solutions – for even I find this difficult; that is also a reason for my scepticism. But I expressly acknowledge the effort. But at the same time it is much preferable to me, we have here the covenant in the leadership of this predicament. And you have to co-organise the impact of the liability over Carinthia. I believe that this is legally feasible. And that's how it's done. And if that doesn't work, then the debt cut should come. Then half comes to the creditors, half remains open – and then I wish them a lot of pleasure if they want to get something in Carinthia. Only: You have to have this coolness, too.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e11789	The next item is the speech by Mr Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e11810	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, I mean, it's not just that kind of game, but it's serious, Mr Kogler. And that's not about poker and cool being and speculating. [[Abg. Kogler: You should have told the Pröll and the arbitrator!]] – I always felt that the state should not speculate. He should not speculate with tax money by buying any papers, nor should he speculate that he somehow gets through with any debt cuts and at the end of the day possibly slumbers into bankruptcy with unclear consequences, especially for Carinthians. Your own party friends in Carinthia also say that the worst would, of course, be the bankruptcy of the federal state. And that speculation is not going to happen at all; it is something I cannot recommend as a Social Democratic. On the one hand, what we are talking about in item 2 is the comparison with the Bayern – that is what Mr Zakostelsky, I think, has already said enough. The second part is about how we finally get rid of these liabilities, which the liberals have entered into Carinthia and which are all over us like a damocles sword and still present the problem – at every stage of the hypo, the country's liability is still the problem, to this day – the idea is now the following: [[Abg. Schimanek: Please go, she already has such a beard, the story!]] As Mr Kogler correctly said, of course, Carinthia does not have the money to pay for this, but we authorize the Federal Minister to lend Carinthia money to make an offer here within the framework of what Carinthia can afford economically and legally at all. That is, certain things can't be done by Carinthia by law – for example, the country may not sell the hospitals, because it is part of its constitutional order to ensure health care; or even other things, such as the KELAG shares or the like, the country must not sell at all. Something else is the future fund. It's gone, of course. You have to say that clearly. That is to say, what Carinthia has earned at the sale of the hypo, it will now also have to invest to buy back the country's liability or, I say, to minimize this risk of national liability. That is, within the framework of what is economically and legally possible, there must be an offer. I believe that it will be very important for creditors that there is a clear transparency of the situation and the legal situation here. That is, Carinthia must be very transparent, what it has and how the legal situation for the creditors is simply to create trust, so that as many of the creditors as possible respond to the offer that Carinthia places. And the third thing that needs to be clear is: In any case, Carinthia's public tasks must remain financed. So it's not possible that now Carinthia or the federal state can no longer fulfil its tasks. I believe that these three pillars are very important for this solution. What I think is worth mentioning, and I think that is very worth mentioning and, in fact, a scandal, is the behaviour of the liberals on this issue. The fact that those parties who inflicted this damage on us, who were responsible for controlling these liabilities, controlling these liabilities, controlling this risk – what they did not do, because they always assumed that they only collected the money from the liability, from the liability commission, and if there is a problem, it pays for the federal government; we have heard from the competent finance council of the Free, Dobernig, who has also literally admitted in the investigation committee that this was the position of the liberals – that the representatives of this party now, where it is concerned, now vote behind this damage, and also want to make political capital out of the damage they have done. That they don't even help clear these ruins, that's really the scandal of the day. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e11866	The next item is the report by Mr Hable. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e11887	Madam President. High house! Mr Finanzminister! Yes, the Bayern comparison is now being discussed here in plenary, and in order to take such a decision in order to make such a decision, of course we need information. The fact is, however, that we are missing essential conditions for this decision. For example, we lack the Griss opinion: the opinion that has been drawn up by Professor Griss to assess the process prospects. Without these documents, you cannot make a reasonable decision without this information. That is why I say, Minister of Finance, in spite of all the sympathy for your very committed approach on this matter: We cannot issue a blank check here in the National Council. [[Call the ÖVP: Don't do it anyway!]] This brings me to the next point, to the concerns I have on the subject. On the one hand, the main argument has always been put forward, Austria has to make this comparison and Bavaria has to pay more than €1 billion because the process in Munich has been lost for equity replacement in the first instance. All right, now we hear that exactly this process is being continued. And this is not without it, because this is a total of almost €8 billion. And this continuation is supposed to be without risk for Austria, which should not change – that is not quite clear to me. But it is quite interesting in this Munich judgment that the Hypo Alpe-Adria has obviously failed to demonstrate in this process that it was objective in the years 2008 and 2009 in the crisis. And these are those years, where – in 2008 – Hypo has already received participation capital from the state and where – in 2009 – it has been bought back by the pleite, from Austria. Most strange that you can't prove this in a trial! Secondly, as regards the concerns: Yes, there are, of course, constitutional concerns. This reminds us of the HaaSanG, which has been lifted by the VfGH. And now the question is: Is the principle of equality again being violated? Has the protection of private property been violated here again? And the question is: Isn't this the next unsuitable attempt to avoid the inevitable? And that's why: If so, Inevitable cannot be avoided anyway, why not simply a proper legal procedure? And that would be insolvency. When, if not now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e11921	Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Darmann in word. – Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e11955	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! As usual: After Mr Krainer stood at the speaker's desk and claimed the untruth, he left the hall. In his contribution to the debate, Mr Krainer said that the FPÖ had not only invented the liabilities of the hypo, but decided on its own that it would have invented the hypo's liability commissions and decided on its own, up to the fact-finding claim – here at the speaker's desk – that the investigation committee would have concluded that there would have been a party-politically motivated influence by the FPÖ at the Hypo, which would have also led to the damage, this billion-damage. [[Abg. Cake: That's right!]] [[Call the SPÖ: “All things are not true”!]] That is right, ladies and gentlemen: The Hypo Carinthia was founded in 1896 as a 100 per cent Landesbank, and therefore all the country's liability to the country of Carinthia was of course. In 1991 the hypo was converted into an AG – this under the SPÖ State Councillor Rauscher – and the liabilities were brought into a new legal form. In 1997 the liability commissions for the state liabilities were negotiated with the hypo by the then ÖVP head of state Zernatto – thus invented in the final effect – and were also implemented. And in 2004 – and on that the Mr. Krainer always calls against better knowledge – it did not...
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e11992	Mr deputies, you have to face up to the situation. - Please. [[Call the FPÖ: He does!]] Yeah, in two minutes. [[Abg. Schimanek: He's at the third point right now!]] I also draw attention to the fact that there are two minutes of actual correction.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e12042	Madam President. I have made clear the fact-finding statements made by Mr Krainer in this Chamber, and I am correcting one point after another. I would ask you, Madam President, to follow me accordingly with this correction. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I am therefore on the last point, in the fact that Mr Krainer claims that the 2004 liability had been decided only by the FPÖ. The fact is that – and that is the fact, Madam President – in 2004 it has a unanimous liability decision of the Carinthian Landtag with the political groups...
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e12078	However, I must draw your attention to the fact that the Rules of Procedure also provide that the actual correction should not exceed 2 minutes. That is why I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, if you are dealing with the matter, you must also comply with the Rules of Procedure as regards the duration of an actual correction. I would ask you to put this sentence to the end, and then I would continue in the list of speakers. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e12096	Thank you, Madam President, of course I come to the conclusion. Thus, in 2004 – and this is fact – the liability for the successor legal forms of the hypo was extended by a SPÖ decision – with today's head of state Dr. Peter Kaiser – ÖVP, the liberals and the Greens. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e12134	The next item is Mrs Tamandl's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e12155	Madam President. Mr. Minister of Finance! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, Mr Darmann, we have been dealing with this causa all the time in the Hypo-Research Committee. You're perfectly right: In 2004 all parties in the Kärntner Landtag voted in favour of the liabilities. [[Abg. Kogler: And for the loss of liability!]] But you are not right at another point, because there were very strong political interventions by the head of state Haider in Carinthia. [[Abg. Darmann: Where?]] Because, as far as the future fund is concerned, we are now only talking about the future fund of today, of the fact that in the sale of the money from the Bayern into the future fund. But there was once a convertible debt bond, and this future fund, which was created in connection with the issue of this convertible debt bond, has been erased because of the fact that there was, of course, a bread and games policy in Carinthia, caused by the head of state Haider. [[Abg. Darmann: The future fund is secured!]] - Yes, that's quite certain. We're standing in front of these shards today, and we have to clear these shards. That is why I would like to thank the Minister for Finance, who, during his 409 days, has managed many large construction sites: He has made a tax reform, he has presented a budget that is sound, which will bring about a structural zero deficit, and today he is taking another step towards the resolution of the hypo. I think it is very good that we are now making a general comparison with Bavaria, and I cannot join Mr Hable's objections at all. He says he wants to know how Mrs Griss assesses the outcome of the individual proceedings with Bavaria and with the Bavarian Landesbank. Mr. Hable – you are a lawyer yourself, you are a lawyer – it is always very difficult if you want to predict how such a process goes out. The fact is, however, that: If we leave these all pending processes – the actions of Bavaria against the Republic and vice versa, against the ITA et cetera – if we leave all these complaints and do not at some point close a general legal peace – which we also decide today with this law and with this empowerment for these comparative negotiations – then we will have to expect, first of all, an infinite loss of reputation for the financial centre, we will get mad political scratches – because we have always had a very good political relationship to the Bavaria, and finally, the consulting and the cost of the process will rise into the immeasurable. I therefore believe that it is good to finally establish a peace here with these € 1.23 billion and, of course, to clear the whole up even if the Bayern are still making profits from the asset sales. I think it's sometime the time has come. And I know, as long as the Committee of Inquiry is running here in this House, we will not get this chapter out of our minds, we will not get it out of the minds of the Austrians, but it is now. With this general comparison or with this law, which we decide today and with which we strive for the general comparison, it is nevertheless true that we are taking another step forward in this whole unloving causa, which we – and there the colleague Darmann can still correct so much actually – ultimately owe to the Freedom Party in Carinthia, at least the leadership of the Freedom Party in Carinthia. We all know that all politicians have looked away that the liabilities are ten times as high as the national budget, but – and I say that – there is always a country captain who has the responsibility to take over. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] If he does, as if there were still the Republic, and you don't have to worry at all whether these liabilities will ever be beaten, then I have to say, we are just standing in front of these ruins. I hope there will never be anything like this financial scandal in Carinthia again.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e12230	Next speaker: Mr Klubobmann Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e12252	Mrs. Tamandl! They have said that the problem was the liability and that there was no other option than that there is a need to state and ultimately the taxpayer pays the bill. But there you are clearly in contradiction with the largest German chancellor of all time – Originalton Tamandl – Mr. Dr. Schüssel said in the committee that this was not necessary at all. It was not necessary, above all, to state not necessary by law, because the Federation had nothing to do with the country of Carinthia and with the liabilities that the country of Carinthia has entered. [[Abg. Lopatka: Legal!]] That's what Mr Schüssel said. That was a political decision. He meant that there were reasonable decisions on the one hand and political decisions on the other. That was just as a political decision. You have already exposed yourself today because you have said that there would have been a terrible damage to the financial centre and the possibility of indebtedness. – Yes, that’s the problem! This crazy damage is exactly what we do when we do the right thing, let it go bankrupt. If we let the hypo go bankrupt at that time or the HETA today, this would produce many positive effects, but also some negative that you fear. Among these negative effects is that the other countries, which have done quite the same as Carinthia, perhaps not to this extent, can no longer be indebted as easily. That's the problem you're afraid of. This is also the problem of why one makes this egg dance here and does not what makes sense, but what is politically desired. Just as the emergency stateization was politically desired, it is not now being sent into bankruptcy, because then the creditors could work with Carinthians, who would be nothing or almost nothing, went out empty, which would be the right thing, because at the time, as Mr Kogler said, they relied on the fact that there is a liability that can never be paid. Only: What happens to Lower Austria and other federal states? They could not be so easily indebted to the financial market anymore. That's what you're afraid of. Then these countries would have to go through the Federal Finance Agency and get money there, which would be possible. But, of course, the countries do not want that either. Why? – For the covenant comes and says, dear friends, if you want money from us, then you must also follow the rules. And you don't want to. We do not want to comply with the rules. That was also the argument when we discussed a ban on speculation when it came to the speculating of Salzburg. You don't want to go into debt over the covenant, because then there's control, then you look in. And you don't want to. That's the background. The background why we put in the Germans up to €2.4 billion back here is simply the... – Okay. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Prince: Nice to speak!]] I'm not saying "stuck in behind", then at least plug in on the side. Or where would you like it? [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] So we put the money in Bavaria, and we're just doing it because we're afraid that this could have a negative impact on our countries. But if we were to do something reasonable and send the ITA into bankruptcy, then the process would be transferred from Munich to Klagenfurt, where we would have better chances. Mrs Griss, whom I very much appreciate, said that the Bayern were very independent, but in Carinthia this is not so safe. I'll tell you one thing: I don't know if the Bavarias were so independent. I just know that they have decided in the interests of Bavaria and that this costs us very, very much money. Then why should we not take advantage of the possibility? Let's go into bankruptcy with the HETA, we'll send the procedure to Carinthia! I know the Carinthians will make the right decision, and then we can finally offer to those who are responsible for this debacle. This is a lot too much for me today. The Bayern are very much indebted to this whole debacle. The Bayern have played hard in this game “Expane to devil come out, suck out on devil come out” and then, when they have noticed that it is not going as they expected, the bank has brought into disrepute and have extorted us that we take this cremple back. That's what it looks like! Nobody's talking about this. As a reward for this, there is now a comparison, and they most likely get more than all other creditors get. I wonder what a pension fund that has drawn a bond can do for it to get less now than the Bayern who have contributed to this entire debacle. That is not fair, therefore this is also to be rejected. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Simple: Let's ruin the HETA! Let's get this straight in Carinthia! Then it might be different, then it could also be that we get something from the Bay- ern, and not that we have to put in Bavaria another 2.4 billion tax money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e12338	Next, Mr. Federal Minister, Dr. Schelling, spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e12359	Madam President. High house! We decide here in the present law two points: One is the general comparison with Bavaria. It has also been referred to by many the second point, namely the hold-out clause for cleaning which we are planning with Carinthia. Now, of course, one can doubt whether this path is the right one. But that doesn't bring us a millimeter. If we consider where some debt arose in 2006, 2005 or 2004, it is certain that chaos has arisen in Carinthia. And with that I don't make any political appreciation, but it came about there. It was the Carinthian Landesbank that triggered this. There is no appreciation at all of who had what responsibility at what time. It must also be clear that there must also be responsibilities within the organs. There have also been convictions in the field of organs. That is why I believe that we need to think about how we get out of this chaos, which has practically ruined a federal country that has torn the Republic in, and how we can find a way to clean up, which ultimately ensures something, namely that we have legal certainty about the resolution we have planned. Let me therefore say something to the comparison with the Bavaria! Dr. Hable! I'm quite disappointed if you make yourself here and say you don't have the necessary information. You know very well that it is my style to inform the leaders of the political groups in the financial committee of every detail. We even had the opportunity yesterday that Mrs. Dr. Griss was personally present and that her assessment of the situation, I think, clearly and unmistakably presented. Clear and unmistakable! Why a process is being carried out now is to be settled at the second level, namely at the level of the Bavarian Landesbank and the HETA. Only: If you follow the media reports today, where individual creditors follow your arguments and say that this is not all right, then that is precisely why these procedures are carried on without any additional risk to the Republic, I say immediately, because if we lose interest in what is quite likely, or if the procedure of the opposition does not win, then no one, neither Bavaria nor the HETA, can be blamed, unless everything has been done to overcome. The argument then fails to explain why one wants to challenge this comparison. The second point, which is of crucial importance: If, surprisingly, we win two-time, then I can tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that's like Christmas and Easter on the same day. In fact, money goes back to a supposed mass, quoted by Mr Lugar, which is not there, because there is no insolvency proceedings. The third point, which is crucial: If we don't make it, during the period of moratorium until 30. May next year to find solutions, then the bankruptcy is not excluded. I've always said that. But now we're trying to find solutions to get Carinthia out of this dilemma of liability. Mr Kogler! Of course, I agree with you in the analysis that even investors should have seen that a country with 2 billion € budget can never serve 24 billion € liability. Mr. Lugar! Because you have addressed the pension fund that loses money: Then ask yourself the question of why the huge World Bank, the billions and billions of bonds are issued, in which small regional bank – that is, for Carinthia, of course, large, but in total a small regional bank – draws a bond, and without sufficient liability. You know who's behind that? The World Bank Pension Fund. If one also examines this question, then the question arises which developments were there overall. You can believe me, ladies and gentlemen, the elimination and work we do on the HETA and with the HETA is extremely stressful. We often negotiate until midnight and later. It is psychologically stressful because, of course, risk and uncertainty factors always have to be considered, because we want to follow a path that works. If someone's put in the room now, that could be unconstitutional: Yes, it can be removed from the Constitutional Court. Only: Now we are taking a course that was actually presented by the Constitutional Court in its decision-making, when he repealed the old hypo law. If a lawyer like Dr. Hable shakes his head, it doesn't say anything. That doesn't say anything at all! I have to deal all day in this Causa with ten lawyers representing twelve opinions. At the end of the day, however, I have to make the political decision whether I am willing to go this way or whether I am willing not to go. In the end, it should be noted that: Have we solved the problem or have we not solved it? That is the crucial question. That is why I should like to point out once again: The procedure, which will continue, will only be used to establish legal certainty. Should we win over – thank you. If we lose, legal certainty is created and the possibility for other creditors to complain is indeed severely limited. For Austria – I say that again – nothing changes the Treaty which the Republic of Austria has concluded with the Free State of Bavaria. This is a procedure at a completely different level. We have – and I would like to stress this once again – fully informed the financial speakers of all the political groups about what comparison we intend to conclude, because the law that we are adopting today is only the empowerment that I can use these funds. Nevertheless, I have gone the way to inform you all in detail, including the participation of parts of the HETA Supervisory Council, of those who have negotiated, and also of Mrs Griss, in whom I would like to expressly thank her expertise, which she made available yesterday. Now comes the accusation that it is something politically desired, Mr Lugar. - Who? [[Abg. Lugar: Yes, from Pröll, head of state of Lower Austria!]] That's why the country of Lower Austria threatens? – With me, you can calmly tell Schelling that I have no problem with it. [[Call the ÖVP:Dr. Pröll!]] [[Abg. Lugar: Dr. Pröll! Sorry!]] Now individual countries are threatening to go to the Constitutional Court because of this law. That's why I said that's not what we're bringing to the discussion here? - No, I think it's the right way. If the Constitutional Court finds that the countries are disadvantaged, it will find that. But what does “political wish” mean here? I am politically responsible, and I assume this responsibility. I have also taken responsibility for the fact that at the moratorium we had the problem with the countries in relation to the Hypo-Pfandbriefing Office. That too was a decision where you cannot argue that here is a Federal Minister who has guided himself according to the wishes of those who own it. Don't! I attach special importance to this because we must try together to bring about this solution. It is all the more unfortunate that we do not come to a unanimous decision here. Mr Kogler, I fully understand your arguments – and we discussed them again yesterday – and this allegation, why the HETA could not prove whether the bank was in a position in 2007, 2008 or whenever. The interesting thing is that at that time there were tested balance sheets that said it was all right. Of course, Madam President Griss made it very clear yesterday that the evidence is to be found whether these miscarriages – subjective, objective – were present at this time. She told us that this could clearly not be demonstrated in the process in Bavaria, and that did not exactly improve our chances. That is why we have now taken this path. The last point I would like to make is: There are, of course, criticisms from many sides, constitutional experts, many who say that this hold-out law is not constitutional. Ladies and gentlemen! The clause we have inside, if 66 percent agree, we can limit the liability for the remaining third party, which is an international standard. This is a clause that occurs in many contracts that Austrian companies, Austrian banks have in place when entering the capital market, and that is a clause that is applied throughout Europe. Now you can discuss whether 66 percent or 72 percent is the correct value. You can do it all. But one must also be clear to us, ladies and gentlemen: If we do not reach this 66 percent, I am not entitled to close it. If it's 65 percent, it won't. Second, which is an important prerequisite: If Carinthia itself does not make the necessary decisions in the Landtag, this law will in no way apply to Carinthia. You should consider this when you think about whether we are risking this path, and each way has a certain residual risk. Let's try this way to solve the problem for Carinthia by bringing Carinthia out of liability, and finally try to get this megatheme of the HETA, the hypo from the table and thus finish a chapter that hopefully will never happen again!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e12430	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Big. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e12452	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Above all: Dear taxpayers, embedded in a federal control and government system! As a federal government and countries, we are a family – a family of equal numbers of adult members. A family member has massive economic difficulties due to promises and liabilities, which can no longer be achieved by themselves. Every family member is responsible himself. There's no need for assistance. But, as is common in a family, you help yourself as well as you can. With the present hold-out rule, the federal government helps Carinthia. But Carinthians have to help themselves massively. It must decide that its available assets will also be made available, then the federal government can pre-finance and the HETA, including the liability in Carinthia, can deal accordingly. The creditors in charge of the country are served evenly, according to their performance. This is similar to an insolvency. However, we need 66 percent of the creditors' consent that this will happen. We hope that the decisions will happen here today, then in Carinthia, then with 66 percent approval of the creditors. So on one side we can work on this topic reasonably, Carinthia can start a restart on the other side. And once we've cleared up like this, we're going to get back to the top together, as we've heard many times today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e12488	Next speaker: Mr Angerer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e12509	Madam President. Minister! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to replicate Mr Krainer's speech on the part-session, but what you said, Minister, I can't leave it that way. You just said that the damage was caused in Carinthia. That's as if I'm saying I'm going to buy a car in Carinthia, go to the A 10, drive to Munich, drive there against a tree, have caused a total damage, and then I say the damage has occurred in Carinthia. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] Another liberal sold me the car, so it's all clear anyway. [[Accompaniment with the FPÖ and the Abg. Donate.]] Well, it can't be. Let us stick to the statement contained in the Griss report, by all of us highly appreciated Mrs Griss: collective failure at all levels, banking supervision, the ministry, managers and, and, and. But now on the subject. Why this hurry? We don't understand that, Minister. Why this hurry now? We're in the middle of the investigation committee. The Committee of Inquiry shall deal with the subject in three stages. The colleagues from the opposition have already presented it a little bit in their way. We are in the first phase of the Committee of Inquiry, which is not yet concerned with the main role of Bavaria. At this stage, too, there is already evidence – even in the Griss report – that the Bayern have taken a massive part in this damage. In the second phase, we have the opportunity to investigate this massively, and in the third phase, what happened after that – and then we know how the damage came about. In the first part of this committee of inquiry, what have we already worked out on concrete facts? – We know – and these are concrete statements by Supervisory Board chairmen – that there have been decisions on the development of projects to be developed in stages. As the Bavaria came, they said: Okay, we're remodeling the project! There has been a damage of several hundred million euros. That's fact. This has already been demonstrated in the Committee, and there are statements on it. There's been a damage caused by wrong management. The unblemished growth – we know – has been continued by Bavaria. They have increased the balance sheet amounts and increased the credit volume. In 2008 it went We also know that the Griss report, and you know it too, Minister, you have dealt very intensively with it, we know. There has been a meeting of the Board of Directors in Munich – that is what the Griss report says – and it is assumed that at that time, 2008 in Bavaria, they have already decided to say goodbye to this bank. They may have received bank assistance from the Austrian state from this point of view, where they no longer wanted to continue. So these are all facts, and it must also be questioned what happened. Then it continues in 2009 – this has been answered by the former Minister of Finance in an answer to questions – since the Bavarias have withdrawn massive capital from this bank, which, of course, has made this bank even more massively in disrepute. So: Why this hurry now? Why don't we wait for what comes out of this committee of inquiry, and do you want this general comparison today with a presentation that simply isn't true? One speaks of €1.24 billion, then the whole thing is done. – First of all, Bavaria can obtain up to €2.4 billion from the HETA in a row, and second – which is even more incomprehensible – the actions of Bavaria continue to run. Why is that so? No one understands! What happens to the equity that the bank has been deprived of? What about the banking aid that may have been wronged? What about the demands that may still be in the bank today? What about it, it's booked out in the HETA? – Unfortunately, we do not know because we have to work with blackened files, because information people are not released from their obligation to be silent – not only in terms of banking law, but also in terms of corporate law. It's incomprehensible. Why this silence? Why this silence in front of Parliament, in front of us, in front of the committee of inquiry, in front of the Austrians? – And now you just want to decide a law with a quick-shoot action and thus obviously pull the main responsibility for this disaster out of the loop. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e12580	The next speaker was Mr Obernoster. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e12601	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen at the gallery and at home! The issue is too serious for me to give a party-political speech like my previous speakers. Apparently some have not yet understood what it is about and what has been employed. This is about the fact that the Federation – thank God, Mr. Finanzminister –, among other things, creates a legal opportunity for us to finally end in Carinthia in the foreseeable future and to tell the Carinthians how the future continues. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Cuckoo.]] And then representatives of the Freedom Party of Carinthia go out and talk about files being blackened?- Oh, my God! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kitzmüller.]] As a Carinthian, I am interested in it today – I tell you quite honestly – as a Carinthian, whether a party is 20 percent guilty, 30 percent guilty, or 50 percent guilty! [[New call of the abg. Kitzmüller.]] We know that there have been decisions everywhere that representatives of all parties have had their hands up. But one thing we also know: who was in Carinthia's financial unit at this time, who in this time in Carinthia put the head of state in Carinthia and who ruled and led Carinthia during that time. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr Finanzminister, I really want to thank you and your team for giving Carinthia the chance that in the foreseeable future, with the law that we decide here today, under the theme of Hypo – the largest economic and political disaster in the post-war period – a final point will finally be made that the Carinthians will be able to look back into the future, that they will be able to figure out how to rebuild something for the next generation. I would like to ask you liberties from Carinthia: Do you really want to answer that in the event of a bankruptcy 10, 15, 20 years of legal disputes, Carinthia gets someone sent from Vienna who says what we can still do in Carinthia? Do we want to design, or do you want to bear the responsibility for others to determine by Carinthia? I was disappointed with your speech today, I didn't expect that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. It's funny.]] I did not expect this disappointment that your heart beats much more for the party than the heart for our Hoamatl Carinthia – shame for it!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e12688	The next speaker was Mr Mag. Rossmann speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e12709	Madam President. Federal Minister for Finance! I would like to comment on the second part of this law, namely the buyback of bonds by Carinthia, because the country of Carinthia is very much at my heart as a native Carinthian. [[Oi-Rufe at the ÖVP.]] Of course, like my two previous speakers, I also long for a new start of Carinthia, a chance for Carinthia, but I can't recognize them, honestly. Let me make a few remarks about this! [[Abg. Rädler: As a professor, you should know that!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] – You know exactly how the bond buyback will proceed, and you have the overall overview of a very complex matter. Congratulations on that! [[I should like to congratulate the Greens and MEPs from ÖVP and NEOS.]] [[Abg. Brosz: Professor Dr. Rädler will explain this to us then!]] I am so honest that I say that I was not involved in the preparations offered by the Minister of Finance to the leaders of the Committee on Finance, but I have my dear efforts to understand all of this quite a bit. [[Call the ÖVP: We believe that! We believe that!]] – Yes, I know you understand, wonderful! [[Abg. Lausch: Niederösterreicher...!]] Mr Finanzminister, you stressed in the Committee that a loan buyback by Carinthia is only possible if the financing of this bond buy-back can be carried out exclusively through proceeds from the HETA or the country of Carinthia. You also meant that you would only provide the necessary consulting and liquidity via the OeBFA. Furthermore, you have said that there are conditions for you to become active in this matter at all. You have mentioned the future fund, called the KELAG, but you also have a asset statement that needs to be sent to you in this regard. In connection with this bond buyback, I have many questions. There are numerous uncertainties, there are uncertainties, there are risks, and there is a question for me as to whether this attempt is really worth it or whether it is not being played on time again. Let me mention some of these uncertainties and risks! In addition to the above conditions, creditors by qualified majority agree to a discount at all – point 1. Behind the creditors, you have to see that, too, are owners. Question 2: Is it not true that the HaaSanG judgment by the Constitutional Court strengthened the position of creditors? What does that mean? Question 3: Who guarantees professional negotiations? Question 4: What impact does the provision of liquidity to the country of Carinthia have? We know that the loans from the country of Carinthia have been linked to sharp conditions via the OeBFA; and nothing says about these conditions that are transferred to the country of Carinthia. – This reminds me a little of Memoranda of Understanding, which has been closed with states that have come under the umbrella at European level. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] If I imagine now that it will be a buyback if I imagine that Carinthia has a liquidity requirement of €4 to €5 billion to buy back these bonds, and if I charge that Carinthia has a debt of €3.5 billion today – no, it's €3.2 billion – then it would have debt of €7.2 billion to €8.2 billion. This is a lot, measured by the gross regional product of the country of Carinthia. That's 40 to 46 percent, that's not a small thing. For me, the question already arises: How can a country like Carinthia vote? We cannot compare Carinthia with other countries – Greece or other national states – but Carinthia and other federal states are in the situation that they actually have no room for manoeuvre on the revenue side at all. I know you are trying to increase tax autonomy, but at the moment that is the case. Carinthia is a low-structure country. Carinthia has a shrinking population and consequently a declining revenue through financial compensation. So I think, even if this is the case, the country of Carinthia is facing a situation that is economically and financially unvoicable for the country. So I don't see the restart that everyone is talking about. I also wish him, just as you do, but it will be necessary to open up development prospects to the country. I cannot imagine that the country can cope with a debt ratio of 40 to 50 percent, because the debt has to be repaid. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Upper Noster]] The interest rates are low, that's right, but that's a burden on at least one generation in Carinthia, and I can't see, honestly, these opportunities for development for the country of Carinthia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e12818	Next speaker: Mr Kucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e12839	Madam President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Yes, we have the opportunity, with the proposed path of the Minister of Finance, to show the way to bring this miserable Causa Hypo to an end for the country of Carinthia, but also for Austria, and yes, it remains a residual risk. But what all of us, I believe, agree is the analysis – what we have learned so far in the Committee of Inquiry – that mistakes in the past cannot be unblemished, that the country's liabilitys pick up and remain a problem, but we all have the task of learning from these mistakes of the past, drawing the right conclusions and doing everything to ensure that these mistakes of the past do not repeat. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly bring you the situation in Carinthia: Since the start of the new future coalition, Kärnten has set numerous reform steps. Savings have been made in many key areas. Since 2013, € 128 million has been saved annually, next year it will be €50 million – at a time when it is already difficult to get through the economic rounds in which young people need to have prospects in which to fight for jobs in which there can be no matter whether people living in the countryside have good transport links or not where the maintenance costs for kindergartens, for schools, for roads continue – we like to invest – in which a social and health system is important. It can't matter how it goes in Carinthia. A solution is important, it must be a solution that is economically possible for the country and that also complies with the legal conditions. It will be our task to solve this together, and I ask the Minister of Finance not to forget that there are a lot of young people in Carinthia who urgently need support. My Dear Ones However, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw a point out of the Committee of Inquiry, which has been the subject of national liability over and over again – even today. There may be differences of opinion, but I really ask that the Court of Auditors simply speak. The Court of Auditors took the issue of national liability and took a close look at it, and it found that there was one person who had complete insight into it, who had control rights like no other, a person who could take part in all the Supervisory Board meetings that were allowed to examine every note at the Hypo – those were the respective national financial advisers, these were the free national financial agents, and they did not fulfil this task. This is clearly stated in the Court of Auditors' report, which is to be read in the test report on the state liability in Carinthia at any time, we cannot discuss everything away. The tension is only – and in addition two quotations from the Committee of Inquiry – what the FPÖ's national financial advisers have said. One financial referencer has said that the liability is not at all a problem, the federal government is paying anyway, and the other has put the best statement at all, because he has said that he is actually almost uninvolved. This is the best statement at all that the responsible financial officer says that he is actually almost uninvolved, the Minister of Health would be guilty. It would be the same as if Mr Schelling were now saying that he couldn't do anything for this whole mess, that the Minister of Health should take care of it. If you look away, if you don't do anything, but have all legal possibilities, you can't be surprised that such a disaster comes out. That's what all pay for. in Austria now the bill, but above all also the people in Carinthia. Our task now is to take responsibility together to find solutions so that something like this never occurs again and so that we can give the people in Carinthia a perspective.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e12890	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Darmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e12918	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Yeah, I have to say, Déjà-vu! On the weekend of the nationalization in 2009, the Federal Government, under SPÖ and ÖVP, set up and aligned the knife to the country of Carinthia without involving the country of Carinthia: We turn the Landesbank to you, and your economy is broken if you don't transfer us to Vienna according to your wealth from Carinthia! That happened at the time – I emphasize it here – in absolute blind flight, without even having had any numerical basis for the decision to stateization, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That was a fact at the time. Why Déjà-vu? – Today it’s a general comparison with the Bavaria – at the moment, as I mean, and I’m going to carry it out. In turn, one stumbles into this general comparison in the blind flight. Mr Angerer has already carried it out: At the beginning of November, we will come to Phase II of the Committee of Inquiry, which deals with nationalization, essentially with the role of Bavaria, and then to Phase III concerning the post-nationalization period, Mr Federal Minister. I also do not understand Mr Tamandl, the leader of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. You could leave the committee immediately, because your presence in the committee is no longer necessary. What else do you want to investigate if the Federal Minister, your party colleague, has already found: We can make a general comparison right now, because nothing will change for taxpayers? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Tamandl.]] But fact is, ladies and gentlemen – and that should give everyone a thought: At a time when Bavaria had long had to involve its co-owners Carinthia and GRAVE in their considerations to get rid of the Bank, in the summer of 2009 – months before the time when the then Minister of Finance Pröll was informed of the possible need for a nationalization – a side letter was concluded with the then Chairman of the Board of Management of Hypo Pinkl. In the summer of this year – as said: months before the nationalization – it was agreed that it will receive a million premium if it reaches a partial nationalisation or nationalization of the bank. This is, for example, a fact that needs to be worked out in the reflections on a comparison – and many more facts, however, which will only be prepared by the Committee of Inquiry in autumn and the turn of the year. These are facts that will give rise – for the Republic of Austria, for you, Federal Minister, for us in the National Council – to minimize the damage to taxpayers. It is not now, at this time, that the Federal Chancellor is given permission to conclude this comparison, knowing that there may still be facts where the Bavaria may have pulled us over the table – and that for one year without informing the co-owners accordingly. Also in 2008, one year before the nationalization, it has been in administration. Council of the Bayerische Landesbank – due to its communication there – gave appropriate protocols, which one has not already considered everything about this bank, that one wants to put thousands of employees on the road and the like. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] Has anyone been informed about it by the co-owners? – I do not mean, according to my knowledge, but there would have been an information requirement. And that is where we would be called upon to work out these points in order to minimise the damage to the population. This is our task, ladies and gentlemen – and not, to give the Minister of Finance the Persil license for a general comparison today, at a time when we have not yet received full insight into what Bavaria has done with the Republic of Austria at the time of nationalization or – in brackets – which role Faymann, Pröll and Co. played in this nationalization, which no one other than one bank or another has used in Austria, in particular the Free State of Bavaria, but certainly not the Austrian taxpayer. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e12991	Mr Finanzminister Dr. Schelling spoke on a further point of view. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e13012	Mr President. High house! So with all due respect, Mr. Darmann: They ignore an investigation committee in Carinthia, who worked well. They ignore a comprehensive Court of Auditors report that has clearly explained... [[Abg. Darmann: I was inside this investigation committee, Minister of State! You weren't in there!]] – There is also a report on this. [[Abg. Darmann: Yes, of the Greens! From the Obmann!]] There's a report, isn't it? There is a report of the Court of Auditors which is truly comprehensive. You ignore the Griss report you all praised as such. They ignore a judgment that has taken place in Bavaria, with 800 evidence taken, a 300-page judgment, and believe that you are now able to change and turn the world around with the investigative committee. Yes, you can say that, of course. [[Abg. Darmann: The nationalization has not been investigated!]] If you look at the results so far, you can see that it is the news value that has not already been presented in Carinthia at the Court of Auditors, in the process and within the framework of the Griss Commission, which is very poor – at least from my point of view.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e13095	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. [[Abg. Kickl: You've examined the same three times, and then you're wondering...!]] [[Abg. Hafenecker: There you can see what you think of the house here!]] – May I ask you not to disturb the voting process? Agenda item 2: Draft federal law on the occasion of the general comparison with the Free State of Bavaria, which amends the Rehabilitation and Settlement Act, the Financial Market Stability Act and the ABBAG Act, together with the title and receipt in 796 of the Supplements. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to give their approval to this draft at third reading too, to give a sign. – That is, in turn, the required majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[Calls and calls between SPÖ and FPÖ MPs.]] – Ladies and gentlemen, can we now bring this voting process to rest and order?- Oh, my God! It was now enough time for debates. Agenda item 3: Proposal from the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Convention on the transfer of contributions to the Single Resolution Fund and on the joint use of these contributions, in 727 of the Supplements, in accordance with Article 50(1). 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. Who's calling for it? - That's the majority. Accepted. [[17:03:13]] 4. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (782 e.g._Other Organiser Federal law on empowerment to divest and burden of inmotible federal assets as well as renunciation (827 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e13168	We're now on the 4th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker is Mr. Dr. Bösch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e13195	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On another issue, which is no less difficult than that which has just been debated. In the context of this item on the agenda, it is also about the sale of a barracks of the Austrian federal army, which is now to be sold in the context of this misguided plan of Austrian Federal Government 2018. The barracks in Vump, the Frundsberg-Kaserne, has been occupied with refugees for a long time and is now to be dedicated to this purpose. We can see, in order to establish the framework, that the Republic has been exposed to mass illegal immigration for many months and that the Federal Government generally looks forward to this mass illegal immigration. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: Massive? These are people who are seeking asylum!]] The Austrian Federal Government has capitulated before this reality in recent months, and this, ladies and gentlemen, is the real tragedy that is happening here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Although the Minister of the Interior has stated in several public appearances that, of course, the international and national legal frameworks are valid, especially the Schengen and Dublin agreements, the government has done nothing to help break through this right. The government has put the rule of law out of power in this matter, and this, ladies and gentlemen, is unbearable. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is the purpose of a government to help the right to break through, and in this one question the Austrian Federal Government has completely failed. But, ladies and gentlemen, the right will help to break through when it comes to dealing with its own people, and in this context it is clear that: In connection with the Empowerment Act, the Austrian Federal Government wants to pass through the communities, across the citizens of a region, and would like to make a change there without contact with the people. That's what's happening here! The Austrian population is not taken into account. This is where the Federal Government is going to take care of what has been decided, and this is not acceptable in this regard. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we liberals do not want to play out refugees against soldiers, that is far from us. However, we want one area not to be put in the foreground at the same time as the other, and that you continue to pay attention to the security interests of the population. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is also about the helicopter site, which is particularly important in the case of elementary events such as avalanche disasters and the like, especially in the west of Austria. In this regard there have been numerous resolutions, decisions of the countryside, petitions, ladies and gentlemen, the mayors of Aurach in the district of Kitzbühel, Brixen, Fieberbrunn, Going, Hochfilzen, Hopfgarten, Itter, Jochberg, Kirchberg, Kirchdorf in Tirol have signed this; I suppose most of them will be of the ÖVP. Ladies and gentlemen, I appeal to you: In this vote, turn against the intention of the Federal Government to completely destroy the security structures of the Austrian federal army and thus also the security structures of the Austrian population. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It would be your job, ladies and gentlemen, as a Member of Parliament, to put the Federal Government there in the parade, because it concerns the interests of the people and the security of our country.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e13266	Next speaker: Member of the Council of Ministers of the European Communities. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e13287	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, So you really don't have a theme too good or too bad, so you don't catch up on the refugee theme. I think the security situation in Austria was also very worrying many years ago when we set up the SIVBEG as an institution for the settlement of property losses of the Austrian federal army, and the current plans have not put security at risk, but rather it is about setting up strategicly where the German army will stand in a few years, and unfortunately there are not all the locations of God. [[Abg. Stefan: Where is Mr Gahr?]] [[Abg. Schimanek: Every day in the newspaper, colleague Gahr speaks out against the closure!]] I myself come from a municipal community whose barracks was sold – an important contribution to urban development. [[Abg. Stefan: Didn't colleague Gahr talk to you? Don't you talk in the club?]] But if you have listened to the Minister of Finance yesterday and today, they know that the budget has also had an impact on security in Austria – both internal security and the equipment of the Austrian Federal Army – in order to secure the security situation in Austria under these difficult conditions. This is the policy of the facts and facts and not the policy of the fear of individuals here at home. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Stefan: Your colleague Gahr is scared?- Oh, my God!]] There are, of course, regional representatives who want to secure support points, but then you should also remember that at the first reading today we had over 60 speakers on the budget, including your group, who requested reforms on the one hand, and then the next speaker came out and said what he did not like everything. [[Abg. Schimanek: Mr Gahr does that too!]] So this policy of the sugar cotton and the lukewarm sucker just doesn't work. They should also pursue a bit serious policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Schimanek: Where is he, colleague Gahr?]] [[Abg. Stefan: Can he not agree?]] It is not all year round election campaign and the annual market of political vanity! On the other hand, I would also like to point out that this law includes, for example, a relief for the Vienna boys of singers, so that the school in the Palais Augarten and Josefstöckl can continue to operate, as it is supported, which is, of course, a burden on the budget, but also brings something on the other hand, because we should also make an economic account. I think the singer boys are sweet and expensive to us, and it's good that we can keep them here. All in all, one can quite agree with this draft law, and you should not always make politics out of individual points of view, but sometimes have the whole thing in mind. [[Abg. Schimanek: Mr Gahr does that too!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e13428	Next word: Mr Mag. Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e13450	Mr President. Minister! I can say very briefly about this item on the agenda: It is about empowering the sale of non-necessary properties, including barracks in Upper Austria and Tyrol. You, Mr Minister, have told us in the committee that this is not actually barracks, which are no longer needed – but you are only authorized to sell them – but it is barracks that are currently used at least in part to accommodate refugees. For this reason, we are currently opposed to an initiation of the sale of these properties. That other properties, which are also available for sale, can be sold at the best possible price, especially in Algeria, Belgium, Colombia and Poland, I assume, and if there are higher yields than those indicated in the impact analysis, then it should be good and right. Because of the fact that barracks are currently used for refugees, I would ask you to stop this sale process, if it's already started. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e13480	Next speaker: Mr Lipitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e13501	Mr President. Federal Minister! As far as the speeches by the Freedom Party are concerned, I can only agree with my colleague Juryenschlager: On the one hand, we always demand that measures be set, on the other hand, it says: We have to get this, we need it, and so on. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: You have no idea! That's incredible!]] [[Abg. Schimanek: That's something else!]] I do not want to say anything more – as has already been said today, demands of 12 billion, and on the other hand, we should save! Article 3 has already been discussed, so I would like to point out Article 2 – extension to 30 years for the property of the International School. This is, I believe, also a very important point, because this right of construction was agreed in the setting up of the International Centre in Vienna and in the settlement of the UN in 1981 and ended last year. The Federal Minister is hereby authorized to grant this building right for 30 years, or also to allow the possibility of not withdrawing the building interest for the next ten years in full or not in full. I think it is important for us that there is the International School here, that foreign people who work here also have the opportunity to accommodate their children accordingly. And, as I said, it's unfortunately like this: We also need to make savings for demands.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e13551	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Hauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e13573	Mr President. Mr. Minister! I am developing more and more into the disadvantaged speaker. On the morning, in the course of the budget debate for rural areas, I worked for a better and fairer financial balance, and at this item on the agenda, we are committed to maintaining the only military helicopter support point not only for Tyrol, but also for Vorarlberg and Salzburg, i.e. for three federal states. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And if you find, my colleague, jewellery beaters, so lapidar, that you can't keep every location, then I ask you if this is a reasonable policy to have no more helicopter support in the west of Austria! By the way: Where's Defense Minister Klug? Do you think that's a wise decision to lock this only helicopter base? Example: In the course of the G7 meeting there were 13 helicopters in Tyrol, and there we unfortunately had natural disasters in the Sellrain Valley and in the Paznauntal, during which these helicopters were permanently in use. Without these helicopters, the rescue and auxiliary use would not have been so good and would not have gone over the stage as quickly as possible. And now you're blocking that base?! – This is not understandable for the Tyrolean population and for the Tyrolean Landtag! This is a decision that makes it clear that the West of Austria does not have any significance for this federal government. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Who now thinks that a single police helicopter who is supposed to come in a year and a half and a half and whose location is not even defined, can solve this disaster that is wrong. A helicopter for the West, a helicopter that the country of Tyrol buys and is operated by the Ministry of the Interior, cannot be the solution! If that is the solution, then this solution model could also be transferred to the east of Austria, but it does not work. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you and ask for your support.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e13642	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mr Hauser is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e13696	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Walser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e13718	Mr President. Minister! High house! I would like to speak on a point that has almost fallen. Mr Lipitsch has given this theme to a Social Democratic astoundingly nonchalantly. It is about promoting the Vienna International School: A school, which in itself – because the EU was illegal, illegal to procurement, this time indirectly – is concerned with millions of funding, is being considered here and today with a million funding, although it is only one – and that is very important – of many international schools that we have fortunately in Vienna. Vienna is an international city, and we Greens stand for this internationality. We want this to be transparent. Therefore, it cannot be that we are practically piling up a school with these promotions and thus introducing a state distortion of competition. What's this about? – The Vienna International School will, if you decide today, no longer have to pay €2.5 million on rents, at least for ten years – a bill. It also receives a right to build. The professor of EU law at the University of Vienna, Walter Obwexer, clearly states that there is a threat of a procedure for breach of EU state aid law. We can provide you with these documents from Professors Obwexer at any time. What's the point? – In Vienna, we have a whole series of schools that conduct serious policies, and I do not want to assume from Vienna International School that it is not serious. Let the following numbers break down on the tongue! If you register a child there, before your child enters the school at all, you will pay €29 000; school money in the following years: up to €19 000 a year. – We want to promote such a school so massively, even though we will soon be deciding on a budget to starve on alternative compulsory schools, alternative private schools, because we are pulling the money out of the bag they urgently need, with which we are cutting down schools with a special educational claim?- Oh, my God! This will be the result of this savings project. The Vienna International School employs an expensive lobby company so that what we do here happens. With this lobby company we have succeeded in gaining the appropriate influence so that we can decide today on this promotion. Ladies and gentlemen, let me conclude by saying: The educational money we provide to the Vienna International School may be EU law-compliant – Walter Obwexer has also doubted that – but what we are doing today will bring an action before the Constitutional Court. If not, then there will be no distortion of competition, then there will be no promotion at alternative private schools. What we're doing today is for these things. a disaster and a clear distortion of competition for competitors of the Vienna International School.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e13779	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Hübner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e13800	Mr President. This is one of the few cases where I have to give Mr Walser almost full meaning. By the way, I am also surprised that the previous speakers did not address this issue. Apart from the fact that the promotion itself is active, it is already deeply dishonest and strange, as it was hidden in the law. There is a “Bundesgesetz on empowerment for the sale and burden of unmovable federal assets (...)” Nothing is sold with this, but the authorization is granted to leave a federal property free of charge to a schoolkeeper for at least ten years and to grant him a right of construction. That is what Mr Walser has just said. There is no physical authorisation at all, and there is no obligation to do so under international law at all. The restriction is made – in turn, as a placebo and sand-in-the-eye scatters – as far as it is necessary to fulfil international obligations. There have been international obligations by the beginning of 2014, but this contract has expired. The thing is: This school – Mr Walser has already indicated it – is not needed in Vienna, because there are now five schools in Vienna offering this International Bakkalaureat. There is the Vienna International School, there is the Danube International School, the AMADEUS International School Vienna, since this year it has been offering the Lycée français de Vienne, and then there is the American International School Vienna, which teaches the American system – that is, also an international one. They are all private or foreign-funded, unsubsidized and unfunded school-keepers. Why there must now be this promotion in this hidden form is completely inconspicuous. I can only say to Mr Walser: There was, of course, massive lobbying behind the scenes, and because of having a bad conscience, it will be hidden in this draft law, which is now under discussion. We will, of course, reject the request because of this funding, which is unexplainable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e13847	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I do not recognise the rapporteur's wish for a final word. We therefore proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 782 of the supplements. [[Abg. Schimanek: (in the direction of ÖVP) Where are the Tyrolean Members?]] I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Who agrees with the draft in third reading? – In turn, this is the majority. The draft law was also adopted at third reading. [[Abg. Schimanek: Where are the Tyrolean Members? They're all out!]] [[Unrest in the meeting room.]] - Do we have it? Debates of the European Parliament Houses, colleagues and colleagues on the conservation of the helicopter support point in Vump. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called on to put the voting paper – and please use only the official ones – into the urn provided. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution, 'Yes', those who are opposed to throwing 'No' votes in the urn. [[Abg. Schimanek: The Tyrolean Members are all outside!]] [[Further calls and calls between FPÖ and ÖVP.]] – Ladies and gentlemen, we are in the middle of a voting process, and I am looking for appropriate concentration. [[New calls at FPÖ and ÖVP.]] - What kind of problem do you have? I now ask the rapporteur, Mrs Lueger, to begin the call for name; Mr Buchmayr will replace them later. - Please, Mrs. Writer.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e13959	The vote will end. I interrupt the meeting for the purposes of voting by the staff of the House under the supervision of the scribes.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e13993	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. Members cast: 154; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 62, ‘No’ votes: 92. The motion for a resolution by the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Houses and colleagues are therefore rejected. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Alm, Angerer, Aslan, Bösch, Brosz, Brunner; Darmann, Deimek; Fuchs; Gamon Claudia Angela, Glavischnig-Piesczek; Hable, oats, hagen, haider, houser, hoebart, moucher; Jannach, Jarmer; Karlsböck, Kassinger, Kickl, Kitzmüller, Köchl, Kogler, Korun, Kumpitsch; Lausch, Lichtenecker, Loacker, Lugar Robert; Maurer, Mölzer, Mückstein, Mühlberghuber; Pirklhuber, Pock; smoke Walter, Riemer, Rosary Barbara, Rossmann; Treasure, Schellenbacher, Schenk, Scherak, Schimanek, Schmid Gerhard, Schrangl, Schwentner, Stefan, Steinbichler, Steinhauser, Strache, Strolz; Vavrik; Walser, Rejector, Willi, Windbüchler-Souschill, Worm Peter. Members voted with ‘No’: Amon Werner, Antoni, Aubauer, Auer, Bacher Walter, Bayr, Becher Ruth, Buchmayr, Bures; Cap; Diesner-Wais, strike-through; Ecker, Ehmann, Ertlschweiger, Eßl; Fazekas, Fichtinger Klaus Uwe, Fekter, Fichtinger Angela, Franz; Gerstl, Gessl-Ranftl, Greiner Karin, Grillitsch, Groiß, Grossmann, Gusenbauer-Jäger; Hakel Elisabeth, Hammer Michael, Hanger Andreas, Haubner, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Himmelbauer, Hofinger Manfred, Höfinger Johann, Holzinger-Vogtenhuber, Huainigg; Jank, Jarolim; Karl, Keck, Kirchgatterer, Knes, Königsberger-Ludwig, Kopf, Krainer Kai Jan, Krist, Kucharovich, Kucher, Kuntzl; Lettenbichler, Lipitsch, Lopatka, Lueger Angela; Matznetter, Mayer, Muttonen; Obernosterer, kilnauer, ottenschlager; Pendl, Pfurtscheller, Plessl, Preiner, Prince; Rädler, Rauch Johannes; Schabhüttl, Schirder, Schittenhelm, Schmijdenschlager, Schönegger, Schopf, Schultes, Sieber Norbert, Spindelberger, Steinacker, Strasser; Tumandl, daughters, door; sub-railers; Of a thickness Wenninger, tiny, white man, weaving, worm Gisela; Yılmaz. [[17:33:47]] 5. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (798, e.g._Other Organiser Convention on the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (826 d.a.) 6. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (699, e.g._Other Organiser A change of notes between the Republic of Austria and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, amending the one on 18 December. Agreements signed in Luxembourg in October 1962 to avoid double taxation in the areas of income and wealth taxes (828 d.e.c.) 7. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (773 e.g._Other Organiser Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of Turkmenistan on the prevention of double taxation in the areas of income taxes and assets and Protocol (829 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e14200	We now come to points 5 to 7 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. First word message: Mr Mag. Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e14227	Mr President. Minister! I would like to talk about these two double taxation agreements with Turkmenistan on the one hand and Luxembourg on the other. In the case of double taxation agreements, it is always a matter of constantly improving existing agreements by adapting them to OECD standards. We now have almost every meeting of the Financial Committee to take appropriate decisions on double taxation agreements, and this is, of course, a not very resource-efficient way of doing so. It would be more resource-efficient if multilateral agreements could be concluded at European level. You, Mr Finanzminister, said that the Commissioner responsible has no mandate from the European Commission. But I say it again: It would be nice if we could achieve such agreements. And I would urge you, Minister of Finance, to work urgently on this at European level. Some comments on the agreements with Turkmenistan and Luxembourg. With regard to Turkmenistan, we remain in our decision for No, because there is a zero rate in the annex for licence fees. Thank you, Mr Finanzminister, for the information you have given us in the committee. In the context of Luxembourg, it is also about improving, at last, the formal adjustment of the automatic exchange of information. If we face each other in Luxembourg and Austria, we must say that the two countries have a lot in common. Let us just think about the automatic exchange of information on tax issues of interest income! – It was these two countries that had to be referred to as the villain states in the European Union because they refused to agree to the automatic exchange of information on the one hand and on the other. At one of the last meetings with the help of the Greens, we have recently decided to automatically exchange information for Austria; an important step towards fairer and fairer taxation. But I would like to mention one point in connection with Luxembourg – because it is also well suited to Austria – and that is the Lux Leaks affair, that is to say, the detection of tax advances that served nothing but to minimize the taxes of large corporations. It is well-known that there have been a large number of these tax rulings in Luxembourg, which has flown through this affair. And in the context of this Lux-Leaks affair, a special committee – unfortunately not an investigation committee, but only a special committee – has been set up by the European Parliament. But when Mr Juncker was asked about these tax rulings, he was quite sham. He has been very silent about this. You too, Mr Finanzminister, have been consulted in writing on these pre-tax reports. But you have responded to this request at first by months late and second, you have also answered very wortkarg in this context and have repeatedly suggested the Austrian tax secret. However, I think that there is a real need to create more transparency, more transparency in this matter, as far as tax dumping is concerned. I would ask you, Mr Finanzminister, where tax secrecy allows you to finally carry more information about these tax rulings to the public, because I do not see why small companies pay their taxes, while the cross-border large companies de facto do not pay any taxes. This is a distortion of competition of the special class which must not exist. One last word for agreement in the Ecofin Council on 6 June. October on the exchange of information on tax arrangements. The Commission's proposal, which was put forward, has been watered so much that one can really only talk about a lazy compromise. The information is only available to Member States and not to the European Commission, so that, in the case of pre-tax arrangements, it is in the right direction and in the decision of the Member States whether or not appropriate measures are imposed against tax dumping. I do not understand why there are no public registers in this regard, and why, secondly, no notices are delivered to the Commission with relevant preliminary decisions and names of undertakings. Put an end to this tax dumping at European level, Minister of Finance! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e14282	Next speaker: Mr Obernosterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e14304	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Values Watchers at the gallery and At home in front of the TV screens! As my previous speaker said, it is now about two agreements to avoid double taxation in the areas of income tax and wealth. There are such agreements with the two countries Luxembourg and Turkmenistan. These are now being adapted to the latest OECD standards, and this gives our companies that invest there much more legal certainty. Only two figures on this: To Luxembourg Austria exports goods worth approximately €164 million, and to Turkmenistan we export goods worth approximately € 128 million. This is a record value that has been rising in recent years. In addition, we are now adopting the Agreement on the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank. It is about investing in infrastructure projects in building the future market in China and Asia. This bank is, I think, equipped with 100 billion euros. Austria contributes 0.5 percent to this, with 500 million euros to be paid in five tranches. I believe that this is well-invested money because the Asian market, the market in China, is very important for our future exports and also contributes to the security of domestic jobs. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e14340	The next item is Mrs Bayr's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e14361	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My predecessor has already mentioned the key figures for the Asian infrastructure investment bank. I am very pleased that Austria is one of the founding members. We are therefore an initiative on sustainable economic and social development in this region. This is an initiative that I would often wish for at bilateral level. It is also very good – we discussed this in the Committee – that we continue to work on the Environmental and Social Frameworks, because, as I believe, it is certainly too little by itself to rely on the donor's self-regulation mechanism as far as quality standards are concerned in this bank. I wish as an Austrian position in this consortium a clear focus on poverty reduction, the enforcement of human rights, sustainable development and fair working conditions with adequate pay. This is particularly important in Asia, because, as we know, this is not possible in many areas, such as the textile industry. I am very pleased that the Minister in the Committee has promised us that there will also be a report to Parliament on the activities of this bank, as is already the case with the IFIs. What I would like more would be for the Minister of Finance and the Minister for Foreign Affairs to present a step plan for Austrian development cooperation, where both the contributions in multilateral activities and those in bilateral activities are illustrated, where it is clear that we are making an increase towards 0.7% of gross national income in the coming years. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e14399	Next word: Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e14422	The irony is that refugees are prevented, as far as possible, from coming to Europe, and, in contrast, tax refugees whom we actually want to have are doing everything to escape the Fiscus. Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Values Watch the ranks and in front of the screens at home! We in Europe urgently need effective protection against tax evasion so that money and profits cannot be shifted into tax havens. Each year, the European Union misses €1 trillion, losing €1 000 billion in taxes. The calculations have shown that, within eight years, all European countries could be completely discharged from this money. This is also a reason why we are concluding another bilateral double taxation agreement, this time with the country of Turkmenistan. I think it is like Mr. Gregor Gysi, who recently quoted it in the German Federal Council from the Bible, from which we have already been quoted – but from the Old Testament – today. There are also some who like to appeal to the Bible. He said – I quote –: “A camel goes through a needlehole rather than a rich man enters into the kingdom of God. Now you must open up a chance for the rich to come into the kingdom of God. And this is only about capital taxes and property tax." As long as we don't have these, I am clear that we will allow the rich to pay their taxes to us. It is not really the question of whether we are spending money on refugees, but rather the question of why few people can take advantage of them. I am determined against hetze and, above all, against hetze, where the poor are played out against the poor. We have now sown thinly, but yet masters in this metier, namely the representatives of the FPÖ, who do nothing but blow up the population against people who get 40 € pocket money per month. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Riemer and Mr Stefan.]] But back to the agreement. As we have seen and heard today, this government is working to create new investment opportunities for the Austrian economy and to set up a reasonable and balanced budget even in difficult times. This includes double taxation agreements. I welcome these double taxation agreements, and we will vote for them by the Social Democrats. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e14468	Next speaker: Mrs Gusenbauer-Jäger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e14490	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Global Forum on Transparency and Exchange of Information ensures that transparency in international standards and information exchange is respected and implemented in this way. The Austrian report is now available, namely the report between Austria and Luxembourg, and an adjustment has to be made. It is a minor change in the notes to the modification information of 7. ==References== If this adjustment is carried out and the change of notes enters into force, then this has no effect. It has no political character either in a human or financial way. That is why the Socialist Group agrees with this proposal. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e14526	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The vote will be taken separately on each committee request. First of all, we shall be voting on agenda item 5: Proposal from the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Agreement on the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, in 798 of the Supplements in accordance with Article 50(1). 1st paragraph 1 of the Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. Who agrees with the Committee's request? - That's the majority. The request was accepted. We shall also proceed to the vote on agenda item 6: Proposal from the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty: A change of notes between the Republic of Austria and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, amending the one on 18 December. In October 1962, in Luxembourg, agreements were signed to avoid double taxation in the areas of income and wealth taxes, in 699 of the supplements referred to in Article 50(1). 1st paragraph 1 of the Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. Who's calling for it? – This is unanimously accepted. Finally, we shall come to the vote on agenda item 7: Proposal from the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Agreements between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of Turkmenistan on the prevention of double taxation in the areas of income taxes and assets and the Protocol, in 773 of the supplements referred to in Article 50(1). 1st paragraph 1 of the Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. Who's calling for it? – This, in turn, is the majority and thus adopted. [[17:50:00]] 8. Point Report of the Family Committee on the Government Template (799, e.g._Other Organiser Agreement in accordance with Art. 15a B-VG on the semi-dayly free and mandatory early promotion in institutional child education and care facilities in kindergarten years 2015/16, 2016/17 and 2017/18 (801 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e14602	We're now on the 8th. Agenda item. First word message: Mrs Kitzmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e14627	Mr President. Minister! Dear High House! Dear spectator at home and here at the gallery! This item on the agenda is about the Article 15a agreement, on which I would like to start by saying something basic. And that's... I am very incomprehensible about the procedure of the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs. This is not only an extension, it is also a financial change and a financial burden which will be borne by the population as a result of this Article 15a agreement. There has been no review of this template. I wonder, Why has there been no review here? . We have received the answer from the Minister that the BKA meant that there was no need. So the BKA thinks there is no need for an assessment, so none was made either. That is why we have not been given an opinion on any analysis. This alone speaks volumes: that one simply says here that there is no need for an assessment, therefore there is no such thing as it is! – It’s like this now. This is about extending the kindergarten requirement or the kindergarten visit last year before the school requirement. We were already opposed in 2009, and also in 2011 and 2013 in the amendments and extensions. But now it is about another story that is very interesting, and it is about a mandatory consultation for parents of children who are in the previous kindergarten year. Here is the question: How should this mandatory parent talk look? This question has been answered in a very interesting way, and it was said, well, that it is expected by the countries to do something to hold this conversation. The kindergarten teachers are supposed to have this conversation. But it has not been said what to do, how this should work. In this conversation, children's skills are to be reviewed and countries are recommended to recommend their children's half-day kindergarten visit on the occasion of this conversation. In this conversation, parents should take their child with them. The question is: Who's holding this conversation? In what form is this recommendation to take place? Is it oral or is it made in writing? What happens then? The only thing fixed in this whole story is the costs incurred by this consultation of the parents. These costs are between 375 € and 380 €. But now the actual one – I say now and let's say it – comes “hammer” in all this story, namely: The parents who do not wish to take advantage of this mandatory consultation with the children or do not wish to make use of it should be punished. And how shall they be punished? Another question! There were relatively serious disagreements between the Minister and his staff, which is what this should mean. Mrs. Minister said it was being punished, and her staff and we have been able to explain that it is not determined that it is merely a recommendation to hold this conversation. How can I be punished if I do not use a recommendation as a parent or if I do not perceive it? Similarly, we do not think it is right for the parents who do not send their children to the compulsory kindergarten to be punished. We from the FPÖ support that parents can freely decide whether to care for their children themselves before they come to school or not. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We from the FPÖ are against any obligation, even for a commitment in the previous kindergarten year. One duty after another hunts us, and the children, as we know, are already sent 97 percent to kindergarten. So, for 3 percent, we should make this administrative effort? We believe that what you want to introduce here is not necessary. And especially the punishment for not complying with a recommendation is, Ladies and gentlemen, but really a ridiculous arrangement.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e14690	Next, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Straster to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e14711	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. I believe that this is undoubtedly a good autumn this year, because in 2015, we launched some tangible measures for our children and our families. On the one hand, € 70 million a year were made available for the mandatory free kindergarten year – a great help and an enrichment for our communities and also for families for which there is no burden. That is why I do not understand the scepticism of Mrs Kitzmüller. In addition, Minister of Integration Sebastian Kurz €20 million was launched as support for early language support – in times like this a very important and positive measure! In addition, this has already been mentioned in the budget debate today, an increase of 1.9 percent in family support. And we can also see here: There are federal, state and local authorities in a partnership – in a partnership for our families! And we are in the middle of a success story because the expansion of childcare and education facilities is progressing rapidly. It also proves the children's home statistics that we are excited in all areas. [[Abg. Schimanek: Children’s Home Statistics?]] Now I'm allowed to make the parent talk on the subject. – This is a symbol or proof that we do not blindly establish these facilities and, so to speak, oblige the parents to bring their children to kindergarten. Rather, we are need-oriented and are constantly in conversation with the parents. And this consultation for parents for whom the countries have to care and which is certainly run by professionals is a sign of the good partnership on the ground, for the good cooperation between kindergarten, childcare facilities and families. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kitzmüller.]] I would also like to see a small prospect of the financial compensatory negotiations which are about to take place. There are the following questions to be clarified: When it comes to child education and care, it is important to discuss what services are desired, to discuss what funds are available, and to discuss who can do the best of these services to be provided under the given framework conditions. And I am convinced that the kindergartens and the pedigrees are best removed from the communities. Then: We work close to citizens, we work democratically and we work efficiently. For this purpose, about 2 100 mayors in Austria are guaranteed, and of which 1,500 are of the ÖVP. In cooperation with the educators and educators, excellent work is being done in this area, in a highly sensitive area, and I would like to thank the German Government as a whole for this commitment which our children and families are committed to. Please, let's stay on this road! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e14764	Mr Steinbichler has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e14785	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! I would remind you of yesterday's words by the Minister of Social Affairs, who, like my col- empty Riemer has already said that the birth loss has confirmed. This proves that the last two governments did not actually have a very child-friendly policy, otherwise we would not have experienced such a loss of birth. [[Interference of Federal Minister Karmasin.]] Thankfully, Mr Strasser, we have increased child support, but we are still lagging behind in purchasing power because there is a lack of inflation tax. Mrs Lueger, due to the lack of inflation, we have 30 percent purchasing power loss on child support. Mrs Kitzmüller referred to the 15a agreements and debureaucratisation. In fact, this is in direct contradiction to constantly new requirements and to the desire for more self-responsibility. I think that's actually the demand for the families. There was the great song “Fullly Networked. ” That's because I last had a great experience at a crossing during a red phase: There a family sits to celebrate in the car, the children all play on their iPads, the father telephones with the freephone, and they then say they were on their way. I think that this could be an incentive for you to take some technology-free breaks in which you really talk to each other, in which a book is read again, because, contrary to this whole blessing of technology, you can immediately go into every topic, all the numbers, all the facts – Mr. Goggle makes it possible – are available. But actually, the basic knowledge that is sometimes called a house mind is lacking, one has too little education. Let's think about the normal one-time thing. Of course, it starts in the pre-school age that some children learn to play. We have recently had the debate where the colleague requested that the children should not be separated in language teaching so that they can learn to play. I think that would be very important, and we also want to support it. Since the family is the cheapest and most important cell in the state from birth to care – that is always too little mentioned – it really applies here, thanks to all parents, especially all educative parents, all single parents, all grandparents and grandmothers, but especially, because it is about the topic kindergarten to express to all kindergarten teachers and employees outside the kindergartens. Mr President of the Family Committee, I believe that this should not be politically categorized. It is good if the family party – the former family party – has so much responsibility in the form of mayors. I expect this, Mr Strasser, to be much clearer in the family field in future from the ÖVP family party, because the ÖVP as a family party has weakened very much during the last votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e14846	Mrs Lueger's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e14867	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Dear colleagues at the Hohen Haus! I would like to come back to the Article 15a agreement very briefly, because somehow I was far away now. The question for me was whether our minister should be responsible for the fact that no children are born. Somehow it was easy to become abstrus. – Good, back to the cornerstones of the 15a agreement. We already had an existing article-15a agreement, which has expired. What is being criticised at the current Article 15a agreement on social democracy is that we actually want to have an increase in expansion. That is what we want, of course, but at the same money conditions that we have had in recent years. That is, €70 million further the roll-out per year, but actually a doubling of what we have done so far or, better said, what the countries have done so far in the development process. Of course, it would be nice, Mrs Minister, if you were able to get more money with the Minister of Finance. But I know that you said in committee at the time, you don't even get the €70 million if you don't bring another extra performance. For me, then, only the question is whether this is the right approach if we have said that it is important to invest in education. Kindergarten is the first educational institution, so it is an important aspect. I'm really looking for you if there's still opportunities to raise awareness so that you can still get money for elementary pedagogy. What's new in this 15a agreement? – That the four-year-olds should be taken into account, however, that there should be no obligation to visit the four-year-olds and that for the four-year-olds, the federal grant should now, as amended by the old version, become a per capita grant version, and these mandatory parent talks for the four-year-olds. Mrs Kitzmüller, one should still read a line after the title. Although it is “recommendation for a half-day visit to the previous kindergarten year”, the next line is that “From the kindergarten year 2016/17 countries are obliged to conduct these discussions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kitzmüller: It was said that parents must be punished if they do not have this conversation! But no one knew anything!]] The experts confirm that the time spent by children in childhood education facilities – and these are the kindergartens – is one of the most intensive times for children to develop, enabling the children to have a comprehensive education of their personality. We simply have the task of ensuring equal opportunities for these children. And there are a number of many negative factors: psychosocial factors that could affect the cognitive development of children, but also socio-economic risks that exist: growing up in poverty, belonging to a socially poor or disadvantaged layer, a low level of education among parents. We are called on to do so, because if these factors arise, this can have a negative impact on child development. In order to mitigate these, we are therefore required, and it takes full force for further expansion. And as social democrats, we stay there: We need the second compulsory kindergarten year. It didn't like it, just one step later. Finally, we need the right to a kindergarten for the children – as well as the experts – and we need a uniform quality framework, where it is then about group size, care key, qualification and training. We keep an eye on that, that's our goal and we have to go there.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e14920	Mrs Schimanek's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e14941	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My colleague Anneliese Kitzmüller has already made clear our criticisms of the Article-15a agreement. I just want to say this: That this Article 15a agreement has been agreed in the Council of Ministers without going into consideration again, although, I know, I know, material changes have also been made, is already a questionable matter for me. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lueger]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Madam Minister, I know it was also your wish that you have made this medial known several times, too. They wanted a four-year-old commitment. You did not succeed, and I am actually very, very happy about it. I also had a conversation with our competent state councillor in Tirol Beate Palfrader, and I was actually very glad that she had a very healthy access to this subject. We in Tyrol already have the Free Kindergarten for four years since 2009. It is also very well accepted: 98 percent of all four-year-olds go to kindergarten with us. I also asked Mrs Landesratin how she would then imagine this with the parent talks and with the punishments, on which she only smiled and meant mildly: That's part of the country's competence, and I know how to handle it. So I know exactly, she won't do that with all the hardness. – That's how it looks in Tyrol, I'm happy about it. I don't know how this is done in other federal states, of course. This is also the problem of kindergartens. Here we have the division of competence between the country, municipality and federal government, different care keys, different payment of kindergarten education, different training of kindergarten assistants. These are really the consequences of the fact that there are no uniform directives here, and that is a big problem. Good kindergartens cost money, money that communities and countries often do not have and do not make available. Another injustice of this division of competence is that the kindergarten teachers do not have a lobby. We have about 52 000 kindergarten teachers in Austria, which is a lot. This number can be compared to that of the AHS teachers. The 27 000 AHS teachers are very likely to have a lobby. I know exactly, this has not been as long as the Austrian government and also the public, with their teacher's right to work. I would like such a lobby for kindergarten teachers, because they are missing. The kindergarten teachers, although now it means that the kindergarten is an educational institution, are abandoned with their problems. And that's really a shame. [[It was in favour of the FPÖ as well as of the representatives of the NEOS.]] That is why I hope that these country conferences will at last discuss uniform education standards and guidelines in favour of our kindergarten education, also in view of the fact that kindergarten is to be an educational institution in which our children are to be well cared for, but which is not possible, because there is this division of competence in Austria. That's not right and it's not good. I think that your jubilation, Mr Strasser, is only for self-congratulation. We still have a lot to do in Austria for the families in Austria. Start there and really show you how much the families in Austria are worth!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e15020	Next word: Mr. Dr. Walser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e15042	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Yeah, it's actually so that the little ones don't have a lobby. It is indeed true that the children would urgently need support in public before entering school, the other Pressure Groups, the other groups in our society that can articulate themselves that can organize, and therefore enforce their interests. [[Congratulations on the Greens and Members of the NEOS.]] Unfortunately, the interests of the little ones are hardly anyone in this context, except the government. I would therefore like to begin with a quote: “A second free kindergarten year for 4- to 5-year-olds is to be introduced.” – This is the current government programme. [[Abg. Brosz: In the Austrian?]] In case you don't believe it: Page 24. That, please, should you remember, Mrs Lueger, Mr Strasser, because that would have been our task. That would have been the government's task, and we should have decided on this. What we are doing today is a breach of this government agreement. We would have helped you realize your plans. - You didn't let us. I filed a request in committee, and he was postponed. You obviously do not want your own program, and the sufferers are unfortunately the children. Why is kindergarten so important? – As a proud grandfather, I can observe this in my granddaughter: because the children in the kindergarten, in the kindergarten, also develop socially, because they learn to deal with each other, because they acquire language skills because they acquire social skills, and also develop manual skills in the kindergarten. Much the family cannot afford, especially if it is a single-child family, much does not work there, which can be done in kindergarten. That is why it is so important to us, and that is why we are fighting here for this second compulsory kindergarten year. Ladies and gentlemen, as a matter of principle, I do not seem to be the yellow of the egg either. I am also in favour of the parents being free to decide here, only, Mrs Colleague, this is like the women's rate in the FPÖ Group: As long as this quota doesn't exist, you have to introduce it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And as long as we don't have all children in the kindergarten, we have to lay down an obligation of 12 hours, of 16 hours per week. Please, this must be feasible, especially since the law states that the children can also be taken out four or five weeks without any reason. So, so brutally, you don't take or tear the kids out of the families here. That's a horror... - After? [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Scenario!]] [[Further calls.]] Yes, there are several proposals, thank you for that. Anyway, it's not that bad for our kids. You're right, it's already accepted. The four-year-olds are already going to kindergarten to over 95 percent. The problem, however, is precisely the rest of the 5 per cent. Yes, don't we want exactly these children to get the chance of pre-schooling? It is precisely these 5 percent of children who then have difficulties in school who have difficulty getting involved in everyday schooling, who have not learned that they have not learned to deal with other children and to behave accordingly. We must see this, and we must also take appropriate countermeasures as long as it does not work as in the Scandinavian countries, where there is no obligation, but the children are 100 percent or 99.9% in the kindergarten, at least what the four- and five-year-olds are going to do. So in this direction, we need to develop urgently in Austria. Mrs Minister, I have to accuse you of one thing: To negotiate and sign this Article-15a agreement without evaluating what has happened in the last three years, without any qualitative examination of what has happened without seeing if it works or does not work, I cannot understand. And I can't understand that now without a review. I would be very interested in what the relevant organisations say about those organisations that are committed to the rights of preschool children. I'll get you together. Madam Minister, what is happening here is unfortunately a step back, that is not a step forward. It is best to maintain the status quo, at best! What we need is the mandatory second free-school year for our children. You promised, keep it!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e15115	Next word: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Strolz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e15137	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Dear citizens! Dear parents! We are discussing the future of elementary education in Austria. It is an agreement between the federal states and the federal government that we should continue to give funding here, in early childhood education, in elementary education. We will support this, Mrs. Minister. We believe that this is, of course, to be extended. We also have some questions that we would have liked to have a review. We believe that this is an important matter, where we really need to involve those concerned. This has not happened, it must be done next time. Of course, we want to go a lot, much more. We believe it's clear that if one fifth today can't just read at 15, then they couldn't do it at 10. It's even so far to go that they didn't even learn this with nine, but I dare the hypothesis: Those 20 percent of young people we lose to the AMS with 15 as permanent customers are already lost in early childhood, because they have not found the appropriate funding, conditions. I've already received an e-mail today, when I praise again. I would like to do this, of course, because I have already trained the social partners today. You know, Mrs Minister, about the future of elementary education in Austria, a good paper from the social partners and the industrial associations, and I wonder why we do not get in the way. There are things in there like: Elemental education in federal competence, consisting of nine make one, a federal framework law for elementary educational institutions, comprehensive offer with extensive opening hours, qualification boost in training. I think that is such a matter, where there is actually a majority in this House, and therefore I do not understand that we do not come to these decisions. We have to do it.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e15173	Next word: Mr. Sieber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e15194	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Even if we have an ideal picture of the family of the ÖVP, we do not nevertheless shut down the needs of the new family forms and life realities. That is why it is clear to us that the further development of childcare facilities is essential for the compatibility of family and work. Yes, and on this path our minister Sophie Karmasin is very successful on the road. The government's proposal, which is now under discussion, provides for annual funding of €70 million by 2018 for the second free kindergarten year of the four to five years. The Committee debate complained that the second kindergarten year would not be equally mandatory and prescribed free of charge. Ladies and gentlemen, we must end the practice of deciding and ordering big-scale things here, which must then be paid by the countries and, above all, by the communities. The communities are at the attack, that's not how it goes. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] With regard to the objective, we agree, but our path leads to negotiations and talks with countries and communities. In the Committee's debate, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens have almost fallen into a collective depression. I understand the role of the government and opposition party, but you, Mr Walser, should not forget that the Greens are sitting in Vorarlberg in the state government and there very prominently hold the social resort. [[Abg. Schwentner: No, that is not understandable to you!]] But above all, you should not close your eyes before the actual situation, a look at the current day care statistics would suffice. In fact, in Vorarlberg, 99.9% of children are cared for in childcare facilities by the five- to six-year-olds. According to statistics, the four- to five-year-olds are even 100 percent who use the care offer. [[Abg. Schwentner: Katharina Wiesflecker is responsible for under three years of age!]] [[Abg. Walser: You should prepare better!]] For the three- to four-year-olds 90 percent, and for the two- to three-year-olds, the figure is 52 percent. That is, the Vorarlberger position that parents formulate the needs and provide the corresponding care places to the country and communities is correct and also leads to a high satisfaction of the affected parents. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In the 2015 family friendly monitor of Vorarlberg, the parents surveyed – if Austria is accepted by 100 percent – come to an evaluation of 113 percent and thus, together with the Burgenland, takes the absolute top priority. Vienna, which is often referred to as a model in this context – in fact, Vienna offers a comprehensive and even free offer in childcare – in this assessment only a value of 92 out of 100. Clearly, the Vorarlberg government, which also includes the Greens, is doing much right. Perhaps you, Mr Walser, should look more often for a discussion with your colleagues in Vorarlberg. I think you're talking to each other. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take another look at a number that is also reflected in this family friendly monitor. In the assessment of family kindness in this monitor of seventh place in 2012, when 31 percent of the respondents rated Austria as very family friendly, Austria has advanced to second place in European comparison in 2015. This year already 63 percent, more than twice as many of the respondents say, Austria is a very family-friendly country. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] This is a great success, but we are not yet satisfied with it, because our goal and the goal of our Minister Sophie Karmasin is to become the most family-friendly country in Europe. And we'll do that, too.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e15276	Next word: Mrs Kucharovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e15297	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! I say it very openly: This agreement is what was feasible with the countries, but certainly not the great throw. On the one hand, however, I would like to mention as positive that for the last kindergarten year more money has been provided to the extent of 16 to 20 free hours that have to be offered. On the other hand, this also links the in-depth discussion with the second mandatory free kindergarten year. But now to the negative: We just don't go far enough and it's just not enough. The kindergarten is still only in the morning or just for 16 to 20 hours, and this does not actually correspond to the real mornings. And the second mandatory free kindergarten year is still not available. Let us, however, look at the perspective of the child, even with regard to child poverty – we have the International Day for the Elimination of Poverty in the next few days –: Equal opportunities for all children simply mean less poverty. This means in the first step: Access to the kindergarten for all children and the good will of the individual federal states or not to be dependent upon decisions after consultation talks, quite honestly speaking. We just want this kindergarten as the first education, as a benefit for the children. [[Call to the ÖVP: Who is “we”?]] And the most important thing is that not only do we want adults, but that's what the children want. It was only last week that I was asked what they wanted to learn and what they had already learned in the kindergarten that I was only at a great educational event of the children's friends, where they were working with the children in advance. And that's how much came out. The curiosity and the desire to know are what we should promote and support. I think we all know these questions and statements of children: What does that mean? Look, I can read it! or whatever. And the answers are found in the kindergarten, and learning is done in the kindergarten, on the one hand by educators and educators, but above all – both colleague Walser and colleague Strolz have already done this – by other children. And that is why we simply allow this learning to happen to all children in the first step of poverty, child poverty, and to allow all children the same opportunities. In short: We agree to the agreement. It is another step, but we will not let go of the second mandatory free kindergarten year – like the first – to finally make reality and to create the uniform federal framework in the field of elementary education. We do not argue because we are so stubborn, but because we also know from international comparisons how essential the first educational institution for children is for their further life course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e15331	Mr Knes is speaking next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e15352	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) An Article 15a agreement, as it is on the table today, is still a compromise. Yeah, it's really a compromise, and I don't understand the excitement. On the one hand, we are obliged towards our countries that we can make an article 15a agreement so much, namely on the part of the federal government that we can regulate it at all, but on the other hand, of course, we also need the consent of our countries. And here I am absolutely different from Leo Steinbichler, namely simply to wipe out the country's competences here and say that we no longer need national leaders and no longer state governments. That would be a fatal mistake! The second point is – and this is going in a positive direction – that I would also like the second free kindergarten year, namely for the following reasons – we discussed it yesterday also in the equal treatment committee and then finally again in the decision: The mothers and the parents are required. Many toddlers have to come to kindergartens. It must be provided for the second kindergarten year, as said, free. This compromise only includes the four-year-olds with a half-day kindergarten, because we are not yet so far in the discussion with the countries – in order to stretch a bow – and – and that is the essential point – many communities do not yet have the resources. There are exemplary communities that have provided enough places for children, and not that, as Leo Steinbichler says, because there are births. He thinks the government should make an effort. Dear Leo, all you have to do is show me how it is. I would also like to ask you to make a contribution in Austria that the children's, the young people's rate is rising. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e15385	Now, Mrs. Federal Minister, Dr. Karmasin, has spoken. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e15407	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Estimated families! I would like to recall what we have succeeded in the last two years: On the one hand, we have been able to increase the family allowance by €830 million, after 14 years for the first time. We were able to realize the expansion of childcare with € 305 million in quantity as well as quality, a reduction in resources. And yes, we can now extend the mandatory last free-school year for the five-year-olds, not only by two years, as it was thought, but by three years. Three times €70 million, and at the beginning it was not clear whether we could get €70 million a year further. We succeeded. And we could even raise €70 million to three times. [[Abg. Pilz: Why do you always bring this as the last one?]] It is good and right that we promote and lower the pre-school year, the year before entry into school accordingly. And yes, we have managed something in this budget framework for the four-year-olds, and I would like to stress this already: This €70 million per year – unfortunately not the double; there are €70 million per year available – and we were able to negotiate and achieve three additional elements for the four-year-olds. First, for those four-year-old children who are not yet in kindergarten – that's only 5 percent. Well noticed, not all five-year-old children are in kindergarten. So a free obligation does not bring 100 percent into kindergarten, but only 97 percent. So the commitment is not the means of miracle, but it still lacks 3 percent. In the four-year-olds, it is 95 percent, and here we are trying – in a first step – to implement these discussions and recommendations with compulsory parent-child talks by specialist teachers under a nationwide guide. [[Abg. Walser: Where is the Guide?]] This will only enter into force in 2016, the first consultation discussions will take place in 2016, so this does not have to be on the table yet. We work intensively on this guide, and you will get it as soon as it is prepared by the University of Vienna. Why must this be done now when this regulation enters into force in autumn 2016? So I don't think that's an issue. [[Abg. Walser: But before, do you inform the educators so that they know what they have to do?- Oh, my God!]] – Yes, we will inform them in time, that will not be a problem. So we want to conduct these consultations in the first step. I am personally convinced that we achieve more with recommendation, conviction and a positive kindergarten image than with a commitment. First point. Secondly, we were able to achieve at least a reduced parental contribution in all federal states and that at least one reduction or a free kindergarten year for the four-year-olds would be possible in a uniform manner. – Second progress for the four-year-olds. And thirdly, the Article 15a agreement states that we are installing a working group that is discussing, on the one hand, how these mandatory consultation talks work, what progress we will make with them, and, on the other hand, we are discussing how, to what extent and with what budgetary means we will implement the Free Kindergarten, the Obligation and the Free Kindergarten Year for the Four Years from 2018 onwards – well-noticed: in the context of this legislative period. So we are not talking about a break in the government programme, we are talking about a well-founded working group on this issue. So three points that we could also reach in this four-year budget framework. And that is why we are convinced that this package is a very good one for the four- and five-year-olds, one that takes a right step and continues towards our premise, our goal of making Austria the most family-friendly country in Europe. As has already been said, progress has already been made in this regard: not only in the perception of the population, but also in the care rate, especially for the zero to three years, at the opening hours, at the VIF-compliant places, in the consent to compatibility in Austria and the father's participation. So we're on a good path. And this package, I believe, is aimed exactly towards the most family-friendly country in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e15472	Mrs Mag. Schwentner has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e15493	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! There is obviously a great need for discussion on the interlocutory calls, and that is perhaps why I went to the speaker's desk after you, because it is not necessarily the Parliamentary habit that the Minister speaks at the end of a debate, but as far as possible at the beginning or during the debate, so that we can really have a discussion. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Rädler: That's not usual, Mrs. Oberlehrer!]] - It's common practice. It's interesting that you don't know that either. We would ask you to deal with this so that in future we can also discuss in Parliament, as is the case with practice. In this case there is indeed a great need for discussion. I would like to make one more point: Mr Sieber's statement: Yes, in the sense of government responsibility in Vorarlberg, we have the social resort over, we have there with Katharina Wiesflecker an extremely competent, very good social representative. And I would like to point out that she is not in charge of the area we are now talking about. It is responsible for those under three years of age in child care, and therefore your comparison or allusion to co-responsibility in Vorarlberg is not permitted. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Calls and calls between Green MEPs and ÖVP.]] And a third comment, namely, Mr Walser – with all the comments on what we do not like about the Article 15a agreement and the Government template – did not mention that we still agree. We must agree because we want this mandatory kindergarten year to continue anyway, that is important. Not only would we not have wanted it, but we are very disappointed that it did not come to this second point – not only because it is in the government agreement, but because it is extremely necessary that, especially in elementary pedagogy, all children of old age actually come to kindergarten. And I do not entirely believe in that – and you have unfortunately not been able to resist this with your speech – that these parent talks are really so targeting that then all parents will see that their children take advantage of the second kindergarten year. If you would have been better able to tell us that this is really beneficial, please, but in this case it is not yet quite comprehensible or it does not appear to us matured and finished. In this sense: We agree with this one kindergarten year and, in so far as the solution it is now available, with tooth gnawing. It's a little better than what we have, but it's a long time not what should be, that children under five years old, that is, before school, really go to kindergarten for two years. And it does not even correspond to the Government Agreement, which is what you agreed with each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e15548	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. First of all, we shall vote on the request of the Family Committee to approve the conclusion of the agreement in accordance with Article 15a B-VG in 799 of the Supplements. Who agrees? – This is accepted by a majority. [[18:36:55]] 9. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on motion for a resolution (Doc. (802 d.a.) 10. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 1305/A(E) by Mrs Anneliese Kitzmüller, colleagues, on the reduction in family allowances by tax consideration of the compensation allowance for (impaired) orphans' pension (803 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e15605	We now come to points 9 and 10 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. First speaker: Mrs Kitzmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e15632	Mr President. Minister! High house! Fathers. It is about the request that students should not earn much to stay below €10,000 in order not to lose family support in the following year. I think it's a wrong approach to trying the students to get them to do a job during vacations, to deepen their studies. This will also punish families if the students have to finance their studies and their year of study themselves in order to get through the rounds. We know how difficult it is for students today without getting real support on the rounds. That is why it is the wrong approach to penalise the young people, the students, by reclaiming the family allowance. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I think that in this case we have to do something for our families – and I think I might be in the right place with the family minister – to support the students. I would like to return briefly to the last item on the agenda. You have today adopted the Article 15a agreement, you have adopted directives on how these parent talks should take place, and so on, what they are supposed to do. We have not heard of any directive on how it should work: who should keep the talks, how they should be held. But it has now been decided what will eventually be brought to our attention in 2016. And I think that shows how far there is transparency in family policy – I say. I now come to my second request, item 10, which concerns young people, children, orphans and orphans. In the case of children with an additional compensation due to disability. And precisely these children, who are really the poorest and who are really suffering in part, are still being punished here by in turn demanding family support. In order to support this request, I would like to inform you of a letter from the Austrian Senior Council, signed by the President of the National Council other than Dr. Khol and by Federal Minister other than Karl Blecha, who also points out that there is indeed a great financial burden when this orphan's pension or compensation allowance is included. When we see that these gentlemen write to us, the opposition party, to improve the difficult situation of children, young people, I wonder how desperate they must be if they find no hearing in their own government parties. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] As we know, it's not about million amounts. Nor is it – as the government parties in the committee have said – that it is merely an interpretation problem for the individual financial offices that deal with those concerned in this way, but it is a matter of finding out – after a telephone call with the Council of Seniors – that there are very likely to be enough examples of the fact that, by removing the increased family support, there are great material and financial difficulties for families. So I'm telling you... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Listen to me.]] – Didn't you get them from your people? [[New call of the abg. Listen to me.]] – We will tell you that the senior council can bring it to you. At any rate, we find it a great scandal to punish the orphans by receiving compensation allowances. Compensation allowances are something other than an income that is taken into account – completely wrong. In this context, I would like to address Mrs Kucharovich, who spoke of child poverty. Here you can prove to do something against child poverty and actually – also addressed to you – for families by lending and agreeing to us your ear. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In case you don't know this letter, I will hand over a copy of the letter to you, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e15730	This is what Mrs Le Pen has to say. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e15751	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! We will not support the two proposals before us, for different reasons. In Agenda item 9, it is proposed that the income generated by students in the summer months should not be included in this 10 000 € limit, which exists without the family allowance being removed. To this end, this €10 000 is a flat rate for the whole year to be taxed according to the general rate. That means that 13th and 14ths. No consideration is made of salary, nor does the calculation include special expenditure and advertising costs, nor does it include funding for studies. This means that, in total, it is a relatively high amount, which stands at the disposition. And the government has already responded to the problem in the meantime by introducing a grinding system about two years ago. In the past, the total amount of family aid had to be reimbursed, now only what exceeds €10,000. So it is a solution that is quite student-friendly and where, from our point of view, there is no need for action. Agenda item 10 is requested – you said it before – that the compensation allowance should not result in a reduction in increased family support. Yeah, we'd see the problem, too. We therefore reject this request because the problem has been solved. [[Abg. Kitzmüller: That's not true!]] As I have already said in the Committee: The compensation allowance is according to Income Tax Act § 3 para. 1 Z 4 tax-free, therefore it is not used for the calculation of income. Now, Mr Königsberger-Ludwig has also reported in the Committee that there are obviously financial offices, which are very likely to be among the aid-induced, that is, reducing incomes. And perhaps the Council of Seniors – if there are such examples – has replicated on such examples. This has now taken the responsibility of the Ministry of Family Affairs – and this is a matter of material law and content for matters of family burden compensation as a senior authority – to bring this issue to the tapet and to discuss with the financial offices at the next training of the financial offices, which will be around the end of November. That is, the problem where it was present will be recognized and it will also be solved. That is why we will not agree to both of them.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e15788	Mrs Mag. Schwentner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e15809	Mr President. I would like to begin with the provocative question whether you can imagine that in Austria, we in Austria have come to the benefit of an adult, disabled citizen, who receives an orphan's pension and a compensation allowance of € 872.31, and who – then never workable – has benefited from the increased family aid of €367.30 per month, of which a substantial amount of about €1 000 is required by the Financial Office for 2014. The fact that Thomas was never able to work has been confirmed by judicially requested opinions, including an OGH's knowledge of it. Reasons of the Financial Office: As the compensation allowance is harmful to family aid, income is exceeded in 2014. - Quote. That's not what I invented now, but it's an e-mail that came to us from the guard of a affected young man. That is, I cannot fully understand – and we discussed it in committee too – why you once again claim that this would not be a legal problem. There seems to be a legal problem and the financial offices seem to do so, or... – Yes, if they have told them, then that means that there is a legal need to clarify that there is still a need for action in order to make it clear that the financial offices will no longer act like that in the future. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: We have already said that!]] Therefore, I do not fully understand why we – by Helene Jarmer and I have a similar request for these cases – do not work together and make a change. I just can't understand. I would ask you to look at this again – you have the opportunity – if we discuss our request next time. At least we will support the FPÖ, perhaps we will work together, at least in this context. [[Congratulation with Greens and FPÖ.]] Otherwise, it's not that easy. As far as the second issue is concerned, the income limit on holiday work is concerned, we will not support it. We have also discussed it in committee, I see more bureaucratic obstacles there. We all know that students are now dependent on additional work so that they or their parents can afford to study. But in this case, we believe that the bureaucratic obstacles are greater: For what if, for example, a holiday practitioner does not receive his salary in September, but in October, when the study started again, how does the income limit look? That is, we fear that there will be more bureaucratic and other difficulties. We also see the need to increase the amount of earnings, we believe that the total income limit should be increased and that the valorization should also take place on an ongoing basis. It is too low, and we should also discuss it. Of course, it is not necessarily positive that it is so that students have to work, but it is fact. And that is why they should be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e15852	Next speaker: Mr Lipitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e15873	Mr President. Mr Schwentner, I am quite on your side, but we do not need a change of law, because there is already this law. We also have the information from the Ministry of Social Affairs that it shares this legal view. In other words, the Income Tax Act clearly states that there must be no reduction here. I also say a very warm thank you to the Minister that she has now responded immediately and, of course, in the next meeting with the financial offices – and we know that financial offices are autonomous, they explain their own fields – which, in the meantime, leaves a clarification to the financial offices. I don't think that's likely to happen anymore. On the first request by Mrs Kitzmüller: It is true that, of course, when we separate reading-free time and non- lecture-free time – and students actually work all year long if they have an opportunity – the administrative burden may be much higher than what we are doing here. We also have discussions with student organizations. These focus more on extending the family allowance than on suspending this calculation. I believe that with this €10,000 we have taken a good course and we should see that we may be able to increase regularly here so that students like working people will also have the opportunity to earn a little more.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e15903	Next speaker: Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e15925	Mr President! Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! I wanted to. Not to extend the meeting before, but to Mr Knes and to the previous item on the agenda, I must correct that I did not say, of course, that we want to abolish the communities and the countries, because I have said that we want to abolish political influence. Unfortunately, he misunderstanded that. But since we've been discussing the budget since yesterday, I already have ideas: There is probably something to do with it, so that we can finally get Mrs. Minister, financial space for the important area of kindergarten, schools and, of course, family. Upper Austria is the typical example, we have this double track, on the one hand the National School Council Presidency, on the other hand the Education Councillor – there are huge savings potentials. I am just afraid that now, in the course of the government negotiations, the renegotiations and the split-up, there will again be a great deal of duplication, and I think that the money from the administration would have to come into practice for a long time now. To what Mr Knes said about the statement “go ahead with a good example”, I am happy to support it at any time! But there is also evidence, my dear colleague: 13 Being grandsons, I think, very well, and I wish for Christmas, it may be 14! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] We will vote in favour of these two agenda items by the Stronach team. On the subject raised and discussed, I say: Of course, if a person has a ungrateful pension, this should be taken into account and should not lead to any reductions. On agenda item 9: Industriousness must pay off. – Yes, that’s very essential, a clear announcement, and I think we should even expand here and not only take the students into account in our state, but also live this so often quoted saying, “Handwerk has golden soil”. Why don't we close the apprentices until 24. A year of life with one? – I mentioned yesterday in the budget discussion that the apprentices will become contributors with the first day of apprenticeship compensation. Why should we no longer provide child support here, because perhaps we could also meet the demands of the economy for more skilled people much faster, much more targeted. I think the government could take a credible step here, too, by more targeted support for apprentices in addition to the study group. We will support these two proposals.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e15976	Next speaker: Mr Gerhard Schmid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e16000	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! My contribution to the family allowance: Parents of studying children receive over the 19th century. Year of life of her child out of family allowance. For these studying children, a ceiling of €10 000 per year applies to the earnings acquired mainly in leisure activities in addition to the study. If there is a merit above this €10,000, according to the legislation in force so far, parents will be deducted from the family allowance in excess of the above-mentioned contribution. Studying children represents a non-insignificant and long-term financial burden for their parents. Independent of this, work and a certain earnings acquired independently by the students contribute to an increase in appreciation. For parents, however, the cost of housing, living and the like continues during the study-free period, with the result that the students In principle, the money used cannot be recovered. In most cases, the continuing and continuing education of children can only be financed by the student's Ferial Deservance. The education of our children is the basis for their employability. This also results in the basis of government revenue and can therefore be expected to be re-routed. I would agree to this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e16040	The next speaker was Mr Franz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e16061	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! When we talk about families and family support, of course we also need to talk about the term family. Here we have the classical concept of the family – father, mother, child, children – as a model. However, we also have freedom of choice as a guiding principle, and freedom of choice includes accepting all other forms of relationship. I would like to accept and not tolerate it, because tolerance is a benevolent thing, and that is what other political groups are doing. We accept any other kind of family. But – and now comes a But! – it is very important for a state and a society, like the family pro futuro, to define for the future. For the future, it is necessary for a family to have children. That is, the place of development, the place of special responsibility for the future and for society is the family with children. There the state and politics are obliged to intervene particularly supportively, in and for the families that have children. Everything else is of course also supported and supported, but the main focus of every political action must always be the family with children. There are also a lot of surveys. Most people in Austria, throughout Europe, want family with children, over 80 percent. If you look at the arfluent institutes that survey – like the Allesbach Demoscopy Institute – then you will be able to see that all young people wish for a firm, stable relationship and children. I believe that as a politician, we as a society and state have nothing to do with promoting other forms of life too much and as an alternative to the classical family. In this sense I thank and can only join the wishes for the future: We want to make the future of Austria even better for the families, and I think we are on a very good path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e16110	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I shall vote separately on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, the vote on agenda item 9: Proposal from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 802 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 10: Proposal from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 803 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. [[18:59:24]] 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Committee on Immunities on the request of the Vienna Regional Court of Criminal Matters, 92 HV44/15m, for approval of the official persecution of the Member of the National Council Heinz-Christian Strache(847 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e16177	We're on our way to the 11th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. No one's spoken. That is why I am closing the debate. We shall immediately vote on the request of the Committee on Immunities in 847 of the Supplements to decide on the following: “In consideration of the request of the State Court of Criminal Matters Vienna, 92 HV 44/15m, for approval of the official persecution of the Deputies to the National Council Heinz-Christian Strachewegen of the suspicion of a criminal offence according to § 111 para. 1 and 2 StGB is in the sense of Art. 57 para. 3 B-VG notes that there is a link between the criminal act alleged by the private prosecutor and the political activity of the MP to the National Council Heinz-Christian Strachebebeheid; therefore, an official persecution of the Member of the National Council Heinz-Christian Strachenicht is agreed." I ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to vote in favour of this motion for a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[19:00:52]] 12. Point Report of the Immunities Committee on the request of the Procuratorate of Vienna Neustadt, 2 St 81/15f, for approval of the official persecution of the MP to the National Council of Ing. Christian Höbart(848 a.k.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e16238	We're on our way to the 12. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. There are no words for this. The debate is closed. In this way, we shall vote on the request made by the Committee on Immunities in 848 of the supplements to decide on the following: “In consideration of the request of the Public Prosecutor’s Office Wiener Neustadt, 2 St 81/15f, for approval of the official persecution of the MP to the National Council of Ing. Christian Höbart on the suspicion of a criminal offence according to §§ 12 second case, 264 para. 1, para. 2 in event § 223 para. 2 of the Austrian Criminal Code is in accordance with Art. 2 of the Austrian Criminal Code. 57 para. 3 B-VG found that no link between the incriminated action and the political activity of the MP to the National Council ing. Christian Höbartbestand.’ If you agree to this request, please give a sign. – In turn, this is unanimously accepted. [[19:02:11]] 13. Point Report of the Immunities Committee on the request of the Public Prosecutor's Office of Vienna, 102 BAZ 582/15a, on the authorisation of the prosecution of Dr. Karl Steinhauser (849 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e16298	We arrive at the 13th. Agenda item. There is no oral reporting. There's no word for that. The debate is closed. We therefore come to the vote on the request made by the Immunities Committee in 849 of the supplements to decide on the following: “In consideration of the request of the public prosecutor Vienna of 7.8.2015, GZ 102 BAZ 582/15a, to authorise the persecution of Dr. Karl Steinhauser for insult according to §§ 115 para. ==References====External links== § 117 StGB iVm § 92 para. 1 StPO granted the authorisation to prosecute Dr. Karl Steinhauser.” I ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to vote in favour of this motion for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[19:02:50]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-15-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00098_d7e16342	I am still announcing that in today's session the self-employed applications were submitted 1383/A(E) to 1397/A. The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 10.04 a.m., immediately following this meeting. This meeting is closed.
