ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e7647	Ladies and gentlemen, I shall open the 68. Meeting of the National Council. [[09:06:33]] Memories of the victims of genocide in the Ottoman Empire 100 years ago
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e7675	Ladies and gentlemen! ==References== April 1915, almost on the day exactly 100 years ago, the arrest of intellectual and leading personalities of the Armenian People's Group in the Ottoman Empire began. It was the beginning of a policy of deportation and persecution that ended in genocide. ==References====External links== Much progress has been made over the past decades. As we know today, the admission of historical guilt is a prerequisite for sustainable reconciliation. In this awareness and in the intention to support reconciliation between Armenia and Turkey, the officers of all six political groups in the Austrian National Council have a joint declaration on the occasion of the 100th anniversary. Yearly genocide adopted by the Armenians. I now ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to rise up and remember in silence the victims. [[Those present rise from their places and persist for some time in stupid mourning.]] Thank you, but please stop for a moment. [[09:08:31]] Memories of the Victims of the Refugee Disaster in the Mediterranean
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e7708	Ladies and gentlemen! Yesterday, Austria, many of you took part in a memorial minute at the Minorite Square in Vienna and set a strong sign. Let us also here in Parliament think of the victims of the terrible refugee disaster! We're all deeply affected. More than 800 people – men, women and children – have lost their lives in the Mediterranean while trying to flee to Europe. Europe as a whole is called for to do everything possible to prevent such tragedies. [[Recently, those present remain in silent mourning for a short period of time.]] Thank you. [[Those present take their seats again.]] The official protocols of 64 and 65. Meeting of 25 March 1990 ==References====External links== Meeting of 26. On 1 March 2015, the European Parliament adopted a resolution on the implementation of the European Union's internal market. As prevented, the MEPs are reported Mag. Grossmann, Katzian, Lueger, Ing. Hackl, Walter Rauch, Mag. Korun, Dr. Rebaur. I announce that this meeting will be broadcast live from ORF 2 to 11 am. ORF III will be transferred to this meeting in full duration, with that part of the meeting, which goes far beyond 19.50 a.m., being sent forward from 23.30 a.m. [[09:10:40]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e7763	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: “The negative effects of the total ban on smoking in the gastronomy on the Austrian economy” Mr Klubobmann was the first to speak. Please, honourable Member, I would like to give you the floor and draw your attention to the 10 minutes limit on speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e7791	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The planned total ban on smoking goes in a direction to which we have a very clear position on the part of the Freedom Party, and we will therefore reject this total ban on smoking, as it stands. If we don't mind, the planned total ban on smoking will of course be there or there for the bezel culture, for the inn culture, for the small gastronomy, for which brandy wines represent a negative development, and we are concerned: To what extent does the state have any compulsory regulations, premeditations, ban-excesses, how far can the state ultimately make policy in the private life of people in it? – That’s exactly where we say clearly: Stop! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Of course, this ban on smoking will become a sargnagel for so many gastronomy companies that are already fighting for survival today. Therefore, many gastronomyes also rise to the barricades and say that it cannot be that the Minister of Economic Affairs is there with a whirling cry on the front line. This, Mr Minister, also shows that you cannot rely on you. At that time, when we introduced the legislation which has so far been in force, which was quite a good compromise – in the end, there have been no conflicts – that is to say, to ensure separate areas in the gastronomy, to ensure the food area as a non-smoking area, to bars or to allow smokers to smoke a cigarette, you have accordingly announced that this is a good arrangement and you can only recommend any gastronomy to make the appropriate investments. The gastronomy has relied on it and invested more than €100 million in this separation on the basis of this law. It is incredible to be able to rely on nothing if there is no legal certainty if, after a few years of a good compromise, you are now calling this into question and therefore the entrepreneurs are still sitting on their investments. In this case, Minister of Economic Affairs, I should say that you are I'm sure you can't rely on you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I understand the outrage of the gastronomy. In principle, one has to hold: The gastronomy should actually determine what can be done in its locality or not. The gastronomy is the one who should make this decision. Every guest also wants to have the free choice as an individual and say: I’m looking for the place I want to go to, I’m trying to find out if I’m going where I can’t smoke, or where I have the opportunity to smoke. - That's exactly what you want to stop. Finally, with this total ban on smoking, you want to intervene in this deeply private area. I'm saying that's just not a good way, we're rejecting this path. Of course, we know – because this is always being tried in the debate – that smoking is unhealthy. No question! Smoking is not healthy, that is undisputed, but in reality it has not been a long time, because effective non-smoker protection is entirely sufficient. I say that is now just another step towards the state of Vormundung. And if you let this happen, you have to ask the question: Where does that stop? This is followed by the argument: The European Union started already years ago, which has actually been implemented everywhere! – Yes, we do not have to implement everything that comes from the European Union. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You can also go an independent way without having to jump anywhere! The question is: Where does it cease with these mandatory regulations, where does it cease that the state is trying to intervene by premeditation? Next thing it might be called: Let's make a cash ban! That would be the next step. Or: Don't we want to prescribe what people can eat?- Oh, my God! Some foods are unhealthy, but in the future we will present a compulsory food plan that must be healthy or, perhaps, vegetarian or vegan! Or: We ban chocolate because it is unhealthy to eat too much chocolate and people may get too fat! Where does that end? Where does that stop? It may soon be imposed on a number of calories which cannot be exceeded, or percentage limits on alcohol by determining that the alcohol content may be maximum – house number – 10 percent or wine and beer at 3 percent. On the bottle labels, perhaps a damaged liver should be pictured sometime. In this way, one can continue to think about such mandatory regulations. The question is: Where does that stop? I say quite openly that it is a question of freedom, freedom of choice, freedom of choice of the individual, and in these areas the state must not make policy by means of compulsory regulations. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I'm coming back to the area of gastronomy. In any case, what is planned for the gastronomy is a disaster. The host is right for Wehr, they have for the 28th. A demonstration in front of Parliament against this planned total ban on smoking was also announced on April this year from 5 p.m. This demonstration is organised by a platform consisting of gastronomy and consumers who oppose this total foresight. At present, this platform has already collected more than 300 000 signatures against this planned law, and we have also achieved over 200 000 declarations of support with our own petition, which was launched some time ago. We support the plan of the gastronomy and also of consumers to take action against this compulsory regulation. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would like to say that we are trying and going to do everything we can to bring down this compulsory regulation, which is planned here, because of various considerations, namely the considerations that I have outlined earlier, but also because of constitutional considerations, because we believe that what we have up to now is quite unconstitutional. In this context, I recall Article 20(1) of the Federal Constitutional Act – I quote: ‘The subordinate body may refuse to follow a instructions if the instructions were either given by an uncompetent body or if the compliance was infringed by criminal law.’ In our opinion, the new planned regulation is a completely superfluous one, since it not only covers tobacco and nicotine products, but also everything that smokes and steams, even the steam cigarette, in extreme cases even the steaming tea or the ignited scented candle. So far, according to wording, this is the same case. I'm saying that's a ban-excess. The regulation not only intervenes in the freedom of employment and the fundamental right of residence for restaurant operators and organisers, but also violates the freedom of association and the freedom of assembly. If one assumes what is available up to now, then one can say that the ban on smoking in rooms and other facilities should apply to the production, distribution, administration or consumption of food and drink, including, for example, the stalls on the Danube Island Festival, or in summer, the culinary activities on the Town Hall Square or in the Schnigärten, where cooking or food is administered if the areas are covered. As we know up to now, the ban on smoking should also apply in multi-purpose halls and in those rooms where club activities, meetings or events are held even without any profit-making intention. In other words, even if rooms from the outset were intended only for a particular group of persons, for specific members, for club members, they would no longer have the opportunity to decide, as members of an association, whether or not to smoke in their club venue, but also to use the total ban on smoking. I say: It can't be! This must, of course, be properly fought by us – and will. As a cigar and pipe smoker, it can't be that you can't even start a club for this purpose, or you can't even create club spaces for this purpose and a gastronomy company can't provide an area for this purpose. It is precisely on this point that we will continue to be very determined against the planned total ban on smoking! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I can only hold on once again: The state does not have to make politics in the private sector of people! What the citizen does in his private time, in his free time, that should be his decision. He's, I say, self-esteemed enough to make decisions. He knows that this may be harmful to his health, but the decision lies in his private responsibility. If it is said that we must also take into account waiters who work in locals who are smoking: Then we create a smoking allowance for this, as there are allowances for other professional groups, such as the dirt allowance or the dust allowance.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e7924	Mr Mitterlehner spoke on a preliminary opinion. - Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e7956	Madam President. Dear colleague Rudi Hundstorfer! Ladies and gentlemen! In itself, the Minister for Health would now speak. She just sent me a text message and wanted everything positive for the discussion. Since it may be pursuing our debate, I should like from this point of view to wish it all the best for further recovery. [[General condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am not here because I am militarily opposed to smoking or because otherwise I have a personal motive, but I am very passionate here because I have followed the development and the situation and yet I see some reasons for having to deal with the subject, something more objective – or objective, I do not want to put it to you at all. One reason is that you also mentioned that we have a regulation that should work in practice – many also claim that this regulation works. I believe that we have entered into a compromise with this system, which is a half-hearted solution. We have had over 15 000 ads in the last four years. And now, in this context, the proponents of smoking are claiming: Well, these were self-proclaimed smokers, very few who have taken this up, that is an active approach of those! – If you think about it logically: If these were very few and if one assumes that the authorities are rather lax about this issue, then one must say that the dark figures of what is not indicated but not actually implemented will be a far greater one. So I think we don't have a really good regulation. The second reason is – because I am also here as Minister of Tourism: I have received a whole series of reports and complaints from guests, especially from Germany, who are shocked at the fact that we do not implement the rules in force in the gastronomy companies, or carry out why we are from the point of view of the Aschenbechers in Europe. The third reason is a health policy alone. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: But unfortunately you are very unbelievable!]] And you will, Mr Strache himself has mentioned, have also recognized that smoking is seen as a major health damage not only in Europe, but worldwide, as one of the most negative means. But not only is that seen, but it is proven. Therefore, there is a trend worldwide – not only in the European Union, but also in the face of smoking and non-smoking, because smoking is dangerous to health. [[Abg. Kickl: How immoral is it then to cash the tobacco tax?- Oh, my God!]] I would also like to tell you the following – perhaps you should be careful, Mr Kickl: [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: He's watching!]] It's about the difference between promulgation and protection. If I tell you: Mr Strache, you are not allowed to smoke any more, then this is an evocative process, and I fully agree with you that this is not my business at all. The difference between premeditation and protection is that where it concerns health, where it is about the protection of others and I affect others by my actions. We all agree that violence, alcohol, other activities, activities or otherwise, should not endanger you and that there should be some regulation. And that's the difference: If you eat chocolate when you drink alcohol, if you eat fat meat: Your problem. But if you're smoking in a local and I'm also an employee in that local, then that's not just your problem anymore. Another thing to add: If you say, Mr. Strache, so salopp: Oh, my God, then we have to give them a smoking allowance, then that reminds me of the argument in a great sawmill in which I was. There was enormous noise, and below, an employee measured the trunks electronically, but he was standing by, and the ear protectors are hanging a meter next to him. I asked him: Why don't you take the earguards? And his answer to that was: Then I can go to bed earlier! In my opinion, smoking is the same background. If someone says: Smoking is my private business! I don't care if I hurt someone else by smoking!, that's an adventurous argument. [[Congratulations on ÖVP, SPÖ and Greens.]] Now I have to tell you two things – you didn't mention that today, but in the title, it comes about that a huge damage would occur if we banned smoking –: The IHS has already published a study in 2008 showing the following: The annual economic costs of smoking are around 750 million higher than if not smoked, simply because of the health consequences, the tobacco tax, even – and that is cynical – the death rate, which is what social security then saves on pension costs. But if you see the cynical in this regard, I tell you, we should come to a non-smoker protection from the regulation that we have smoke protection. This is the intention we are striving for, and nothing else. [[Congratulations on ÖVP, SPÖ and Greens.]] You can really rely on nothing today, but on one thing you can rely on: that you want to use a subject party-politically. [[Abg. New builder: Not on you at all! Not at all on the ÖVP!]] This is your right, but I would just stop arguing with the freedom of choice – just listen to me! –, because – take care! –: [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Prohibit the cigarettes!]] When I open a public place, it's also a public offer, and I can't say: This is your decision, whether you go in there or not!, but there must already be special reasons for the host or the operator to say to someone: I'm not contracting with you! – You like to quote the Judicature, and there is also Judicature. So if you run a local, you can't say: Goodbye, I don't care what you're doing! [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] - Please, yes, I like to hear it. What's the argument? - Nothing. Good. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: No!]] Freedom of choice and everything else have their limits where you intervene in the rights of others. [[Congratulations on ÖVP, SPÖ and Greens.]] [[Subsequent calls to the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] - Leo, I'd say dedicate yourself to the trees again, you'd better be uplifted! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, after that you have enough opportunity to turn your calls into speeches. I would also like to say to you that this regulation, which we have actually negotiated with the hosts. I think the transition period of three years is a serious one. You always quote the Ainedter or the Constitutional Protection, I tell you: If we have a five-year term of protection in the case of pensions, I think that is quite appropriate in this area. But let's take a look at this and examine it. I believe that the operators of most locals, if they consider it very serious, are even superior to maintaining the partitions because this offers the opportunity to use sub-areas for family or group celebrations. Even the ventilation systems you smile have a purpose, because of course not only smoke, but also other smells are taken away. Therefore, I would try to discuss all these issues on the subject once again, not to strengthen the emotions. You have to think about it when, throughout Europe, it is recognized worldwide that smoking is unhealthy and that it has to be protected from non-smokers. In the context of the ban on smoking, I can no longer hear the argument: All businesses are therefore in bankruptcy and must be locked! [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: No, not everyone!]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: None of them talked!]] So thousands. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: It's the businesses where you don't go! Under a hood!]] I'm just telling you: Just look at the countries that have implemented this. There is no country in the world where a wave of closures really took place. Why? [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] – Haven You might also be patient with listening a little bit? You can express yourself if you have something to say. There is no evidence around the world that this was a disadvantage. Why? You just need to understand it logically, but that's not the strength of everyone, I know. So why? - Because it's about the question: Why do you want someone to stay at home? He wants to be in society, likes to be in contact and will continue to visit locals, but change his behavior. I know enough positive examples in this regard, and I also know many of the gastronomians who told me that if we had made a clear regulation, no one would have a disadvantage and all would have the same rules of the game. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: I also know many negative!]] My summary from all over the world is: I was also a member of the National Council at the time of the decision-making, voted in favour and believed that this would be a good compromise, but it was not a good compromise. Let us create a clear and clear system, because a well-oriented system is always better than a half-hearted compromise. And if you fail to evaluate the arguments, nothing stands in the way of that. Among the 300 000 signatures: I respect every signature, but my assessment is that it is much more – as in any other country in Europe – that wants an objective, well-executed non-smoker regime. [[Abg. New builder: That's where we're going!]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Yes, you are free if you really believe that it is different – we live in a democracy, I am the last one who opposes somewhere – then we look at the matter, including on the court path – and otherwise, I would say I respect your opinion, you respect ours, and then we will have a good development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e8195	I draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other participants at the current hour according to § 97a Abs. 6 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 5 minutes. Mr Spindelberger is the first to speak. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e8219	Thank you, Mr Vice-Kanzler, for your clear words, because this has once again shown the difference between those who have requested the current hour – Klubobmann Strache has tried to make a lot of fun from me – and the position of the government parties, who are very clearly concerned with the health of the Austrians. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Did you write the speech before you heard about Strache? It's incredible!]] It is very, very important to me as a health speaker that this law has now been reviewed, that we finally stop this unscrupulous discussion, whether we can still smoke in the gastronomy establishments or not, because the previous regulation, as it has been properly agreed, is not fish and not meat, and has actually, in fact, proved itself to be quite open, not at all, and only because countless hosts have not adhered to the legal provisions. If we are honest, we must say that each of us almost daily gets into the situation that the food is carried by a parched area of a gastronomy business, or when I go to the toilet as a guest, I also often have to cross a smoking room. All of this, as we know, is not in conformity with the law. As politicians, we are being criticized precisely because we are often not consistent enough in our decisions. And I admit, it was the same with this subject. This was a compromise that was concluded in the past and which, as it turned out, simply did not prove successful. It is very, very many representatives of the gastronomy I had contact with, also approached me and said: Finally, make a proper regulation, which is not distorting competition, at last introduces the general ban on smoking! To clarify: I am certainly someone who is willing to make compromises where it makes sense, but not when it comes to the most important good of man, namely health. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] When I think only of my three grandchildren – it is precisely about these particularly vulnerable target groups, such as children and young people, but also about chronically ill people. That is why I am glad that the Federal Government's decision to finally put people's health in our country about economic interests, because it must be the responsibility of the state to protect people from the dangers of passive smoking. [[Abg. New builder: The last days I haven't heard from you about smoking!]] Mr. Strache, as you said in your statement, is responsible for non-smoker protection: We can be proud of the labour law that we find in Austria, but with an exception, and this is precisely the protection of the countless staff in the hotel and inn sector, which must serve in these establishments. And I think it's a bit cynical when politicians – I even say: Styrian EIA country politicians – say: Well, the waiters are supposed to keep looking for a job in a non-smokers' room! or, as you say here: Then we give them an allowance, so that this will be paid off. [[Call the ÖVP:Landtagswahlen!]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Let us not forget in this discussion of one thing, which is already true: The World Health Organization conducted a study in 192 countries stating that only passive smoking kills 600,000 people each year. [[Abg. Kickl: You're pretending to be smoking in an inn!]] And physicians, including in Austria, assume that for non-smokers passive smoking is the main cause of lung cancer at all. Knowing that in Austria, twice as many people as in road transport, 1 000 in number, die only from the consequences of passive smoking, I ask all the Members of this House to support the law that is likely to be decided before the summer. [[Abg. Kickl: Where is passive smoking everywhere?]] There must be no compromises on this issue. Perhaps we can agree – that is my wish, I do not know if it is going up – even at an earlier date of entry into force. But I really ask for the approval of everyone.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e8348	The next item is the speech by Mr Obernoster. Please, honourable Member. [[Subsequent calls to the FPÖ.]] [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: No, there is a campaign that goes far beyond!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: Shall I say something?]] Mr Obernosterer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e8405	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and at home in front of the TV screens! You can believe me the topics non-smoker protection, smoking in locals: yes or no? – I know it from the pike. As a host host and hoteler, I know how to deal with it as an entrepreneur, but also how it is seen by the guests. And there, the opinions of entrepreneurs and consumers are completely different. For the hotel industry, smoking is almost no problem at all. In the gastronomy, in the country guest houses, in the small pubs or bezels, as you say, it is very likely a big problem when smoking is banned there. In 2009, when we passed the Non-Smoker Protection Act, there was no unanimous decision. At that time, Mr Klubobmann, the FPÖ voted against. That is why I was really very surprised that you said here today that this is a good regulation. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] I do not want to repeat the discussion here, we have often had you here on the agenda, and the opinions – very strict non-smoker protection or a little looser – go across the parties, also across the Freedom Party. As we know, since 1999, in Carinthia, there has been a liberal state captain, and it was actually a pioneer country in the field of non-smokers protection. It was implemented by the Kärntner state government under the state captain Haider, liberal partyobmann, a complete ban on smoking in public buildings. Carinthia was the first federal to have this. ==References== In November 2006, a resolution was unanimously adopted in the Kärntner state government with Scheuch, Dörfler and Haider, with Schantl as a health referent. All Members of the National Council were invited to take part in the gastronomy for an immediate complete ban on smoking. By the Freedom Party! [[Ah-noise at the SPÖ.]] I would also like to say that not only in the gastronomy and in the consumer world opinions differ, but also there is no unanimous opinion among the liberals about it. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: 2006 it was the BZÖ and not the Freedom Party! Stay with the truth! He proves the untruth out there and does not even generate himself!]] Then we go to the year 2015. In 2015, there is probably another liberal party observer in Carinthia, and a resolution in the Kärntner state government was prepared to intervene for an immediate ban on smoking in the gastronomy. [[Oh, call at ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: Who was that? The BZÖ!]] The liberal party-obmann Ragger also voted in favour – in 2015. [[Abg. BZÖ!]] So if today in Carinthia there is no liberal party observer called Ragger, then I don't know if I'm properly informed. But back to the seriousness of this issue. We know that people's health awareness has increased. The legislator cannot ignore this, and we have therefore here in Parliament, as has been said, intensively dealt with it. Austria is not an island anywhere with a fence around it, and we are now trying to adapt our non-smoker law to the international standard. All other 27 EU countries have a clearly stronger non-smokers law than Austria, and the law that is now in preparation is not the strictest non-smokers law in the EU, of America at all. [[Call the FPÖ: That's not true!]] [[Abg. Strache: We would like the Gallic village!]] It has also been known to the government that it is necessary to counter uncertainty in gastronomy, investment or not to invest. And that's... First of all, with a proper transitional period until May 2018. Secondly, there is a 10% premium for those who have invested. Thirdly, there will also be the possibility of starting up smoking in the tourist sector, as is possible in other EU countries, but should not be used, i.e. where employee protection is ensured. I believe that this is a solution that we can live with, and wherever I hope we can achieve a unanimous opinion here in the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e8518	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Haider. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e8568	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Madam President. Gentlemen on the government bank! High house! But above all also: Dear spectators at the gallery, especially the Matura class 5D of the HLW Hollabrunn, which I very, very warmly welcome here. [[General condolences.]] And last but not least, ladies and gentlemen, at home in front of the televisions! On our homepage www.No-to-absolute smoking ban.at you have the opportunity to sign online our petition against smoking ban in the gastronomy. More than 300 000 people have already done so and have announced their displeasure in various collections of signatures about this new peak of state-socialist prejudice by the Minister of Economic Affairs Mitterlehner and the Minister of Health Oberhauser. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years the Minister for Economic Affairs has been the only industry in which new guest records and positive figures have been mentioned in the course of the financial and economic crisis of tourism. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is clear, of course, that the desires are growing rapidly: This sector we are taking off, and the Minister for Economic Affairs has not been able to remove the energy cost compensation. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] No, there was still the cash movement regulation, the ticket charge, the resolution charge – did I forget what? – yes, registration rules that result in the old parents of the host making themselves punishable when they quickly help out in the host garden once a bus full of guests comes by unregistered in the local. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Or: The drinking funds are still used in this country for the basis of social security contributions, even if they are not paid out at all. These are the loads! And as if this had not already been done, then in December our gastronomy companies, our hostess, were alerted to the completely exaggerated and only to the interests of the food industry. But that still hasn't been enough. Five weeks ago, this Federal Government launched the general attack on Austrian tourism! Let's remember: VAT increase, capital income tax increase, extension of depreciation period, increase in basic income tax, taxes still and not, registration bank liability including lumpsum fraud for the entire tourism industry. – But that still is not enough for you! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You really do not need to wonder, Minister of Economic Affairs, if the entire industry has shown you five weeks ago at the demonstration at Ballhausplatz in the Federal Chancellor's Office, what she thinks of you, what she thinks you are "Django, play the song of the host god!" – that's not us. [[The speaker holds a table with the inscription “Django, play the song of the host god! End with shocks!” and the emblem of the WKO in the height]] You see exactly where that comes from: They were your own people! These were your business members and officials! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] These were your chamber officials, your department officials, who tell you exactly what you are doing here in tourism. “Django, play the song from the innkeeper!” – you can’t do that any more, because there’s no increase anymore. But there is still a small increase, because in the last few weeks, the hosts in their locals have been working out new posters. (The speaker holds a panel to read on, among other things: “We use our ‘house law’! In this case, ‘house ban’ applies to: Dr. Reinhold Mitterlehner, Dr. Sabine Oberhauser, Dr. Christoph Leitl (WKO), Dieter Erlacher (Smokersheriff) – Because of business damage and discrimination of my ‘smokers’ guests! The host!) These are now: House ban/local ban for Mitterlehner, Oberhauser, Leitl and the smokersheriffs, my dear ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] House ban because of this last Sargnagel, which you do to the Austrian gastronomy with this absolute, total ban on smoking. It will come to us just as it is in Ireland. In the first years – since 2004 the ban on smoking – 1 500 pubs have been locked up, and the figures of the beer brewing industry in Ireland speak a very clear language. The sales in the pubs, in the gastronomy, have fallen dramatically. For this, sales in the supermarkets have increased because people now buy their Guinness in the supermarket and drink it at home. They stay at home where they can smoke and where they are not harbed by the state. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In England it was exactly the same thing. There you even think of allowing smoking rooms in the pubs so that you can save the Institution Pub at all. If you're too far away from Ireland and England, Minister of State, I'll tell you now figures from North Rhine-Westphalia, where since the 1st century. ==References====External links== Nine months later, the Federal Association of Drinks Trades presented the results of the impact: 98 percent of the restaurants have sales declines, 6 percent have locked up. Locked in the first nine months! - Wants You do that in Austria, too? That is to say, 2,000 farms locked up once after nine months!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e8696	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to come to the conclusion.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e8711	I come to the last sentence, because the effects are already clear. You don't need to be surprised when the gastronomy next week demonstrate to Parliament as Parliament, Tuesday, 28. April, 5 p.m., this is Parliament. H.C. Strache and I will be there. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, come and support our hosts!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e8738	The next item is Mrs. Club Chairman Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e8760	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Appreciate Members of Parliament! It is true that the gastronomy companies are undoubtedly faced with major challenges. That's not a question. We of the Greens have always pointed out that the old regulation, which entered into force in 2009, is a non-solution of the law, which was adopted in 2008, and will certainly be a new one, and it was foreseeable that this very situation should come into force now. All the more remarkable also Your admission, Mr. Federal Minister, that there was probably a mistake at the time. And if one had tried smoking-free gastronomy right from the beginning, we would probably have been left with a lot of controversy and annoyance. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] However, it is unfortunate that this serious health issue is dealt with in this way. They are talking about the “Wirtethod”, they are talking about the fact that businesses may have problems. I find this very inappropriate in a health policy debate, where we actually deal with more than ten thousand deaths every year, which are directly or indirectly due to smoking. It is a big problem that you are completely hiding, namely the protection of young people in Austria. It is natural – and all the doctors in your ranks – to yell now [[Abg. Neubauer: That's what the right ones are talking about! You want to release the drugs! That's inconceivable!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] She's coming back in. Please listen briefly, and don't shut down sober arguments! It is about 240 000 employees in the gastronomy, who cannot really choose their jobs. [[Abg. New builder: But you release the drugs! Great!]] It is about children who, as a rule, cannot choose whether to sit in the smoking or non-smoking area. And I think that we should agree that in enclosed rooms children should have a right to smoke-free environment to 100 percent. Of course! [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] All of you know people who have the New Year's plan to quit smoking. We all know people who are annoyed at how much money they put into this “search” – under quotation marks. And we all know people who remember at the end of their lives again and find out: It was the stupidest decision of my life that I started smoking. We should use a lot more energy to support people, especially young people, young people, that they don't start smoking at all, and also support people in their efforts to quit smoking. That would be a health-politically reasonable discussion – and not to make fun of it here. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In the field of youth protection, prevention I wish the Federal Government much stronger accents. The question raised by Mrs Rasinger – I am not seeing him right now – has once again brought the very, very dramatic number to light: Among the 19-year-olds, we have 53 percent of smokers. This is certainly something you really cannot be pleased about, Mr Klubobmann. This is a serious problem. The young people enter at 11 years of age, at 12 or 13 years of age they smoke regularly, and at 15, 16 a third of the young girls smoke in Austria. And that is anything but a wish for health policy. That's where we have to go! In other countries much more is being put into educational campaigns. In Austria, there is a huge share of the budget – 1.7 billion euros – resulting from the tobacco tax, and of these large sums de facto nothing goes into prevention. Even young people who are not expected to smoke will contribute €50 to €60 million to the tax pot. But there is no information, there is no prevention work, and there is no support for stopping. In my view, € 14 000 for the non-smoker telephone, which the Ministry of Health supports, is too little in order to really do something in this area, I say openly. It is unfortunate that we cannot discuss this subject a little more seriously than your cynical comments such as: Well, then I’ll die sooner! to have to listen here. If you see the human suffering that these cancers cause, also the human suffering of the relatives, the children – I know many children who say to their father, to her mother: Please stop smoking! – then I don't think it's possible to close it. And discussing this within the framework of a ban culture is extremely overly overly overly important. We are actually discussing how we can reduce these harmful effects, how we can help people to stop, how we can also save them this money they spend on smoking, and we are also discussing a better regulation in the compensation of the host! That is also the point where I do not agree with your bill. That would have been different and better for the situation to come as it is now was really foreseeable. And I have said it again and again in person: Conversions will happen, and the braves will get angry – and yet there will be no improvement for the non-smokers under the line. In conclusion: Internationally, this topic is discussed, there are economic studies from the USA, Ireland, Italy, Germany, Belgium, which result: It is naturally due to the changeover to sales losses, but in the long run it is not a problem for gastronomy. [[call to the FPÖ.]] – No, please look at the numbers! The IHS has also calculated it for Austria: Overall, it's manageable. And I am convinced that every few months after the smoke-free gastronomy in Austria has entered into force, we will be very happy about it and that we will all say: Why didn't we do that before? In this sense, I wish you much success, Minister of Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e8845	The next item is Mrs. Club Chairman Dietrich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e8867	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We want to get very serious about this discussion. We discussed this for a long time in the club and expressed different views.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e8899	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I think that if we welcome the young people at the gallery, we should also try to be a model for them and give the speaker the opportunity to make their comments in the sense of a different understanding. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: And the truth to say!]] [[Abg. New builder: Then don't lie in front!]] Mrs. Club Chairman, you're speaking again.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e8939	I also say to you the result of these discussions: We know that smoking is unhealthy, it is out of question, but we stand for self-reliance and self-reliance. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] We do not want the state to regulate everything that the state will only pass more bans and laws. Today, each of us knows how unhealthy artificially hardened fats are, how unhealthy fast food is, sugar, sugar substitutes, glutamates. The series is so long, but the question is: Where does the state begin with bans and where does it stop? If we consistently carry out this ban culture of the state, this would mean that fast food chains are closed, that the shelves in the supermarkets are half empty and that ultimately the sausage bud belongs to the past. We are in favour of self-determination and self-responsibilities of citizens! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We want to get some people who can decide for themselves who can decide, I go to a place where I can smoke, or I go to a non-smokers' room where no smoking is done. And the host has to be able to make the decision for himself, I want to have a smoker's room, I want to have a non-smoker's room, or I want to create opportunities for both – as before. Ladies and gentlemen, I know that non-smokers protection is a very important aspect. But if smoking is done, then in many cases non-smokers are also affected automatically. That is, if I forbid smoking in the gastronomy and the smoker goes out and smokes outside and above is an apartment, then the residents are still affected by it. Let us not pretend that we are creating the problem of bans from the world! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Faith You really are, Austria gets healthier when we get ahead of our citizens? [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: In Germany it was so! The young people have suddenly smoked less!]] Faith You really don't want self-reliance and self-determination to be more important? Dear colleague, of course we know that smoking is unhealthy, but I would like to know how many people die because of obesity, high blood pressure, exhaust gases and others. [[Abg. Exhaust gases!]] We cannot reduce the subject of “unhealthful life ” to a single point. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and the FPÖ representatives.]] The freedom of citizens must be in the foreground, the self-determination – and not the demise of the government parties! I think the right way is to inform, to pursue prevention policy, a prevention policy that also results in people really knowing what problems, which health damage is related to smoking, and are ultimately convinced to stop smoking. Another sentence to the hosts: I believe that what the host has had to participate in the last few weeks and months is unacceptable to this profession. We have criminalized her, we have flooded her with conditions. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: We? Who Is “We ”?]] And a legislator who imposes conditions on them must ensure legal certainty. It cannot be said that the person who has to carry out the obligations must invest thousands of euros, but at the end of the day remains on these investments and the state is free to invest according to the motto: “Outside spouts, nothing has been!” responds. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and the FPÖ representatives.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Innkeepers are not health activists. Prevention policy must take place elsewhere, in the area of policy responsibility. Don't push your responsibility to the host! Ladies and gentlemen! We want legal certainty, we want self-determination of citizens and the freedom of choice of citizens. This is important to us from the Stronach team. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e9040	The next item is the speech by Mr Schellhorn. – Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e9062	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Economic Affairs! Exceptionally, I would like to start with a quote today. – I quote what Minister Mitterlehner said 20 minutes ago: “You can’t really rely on anything anymore today.” That's right! You can't rely on anything. [[It was in favour of the NEOS and of representatives of the FPÖ.]] We both discussed in 2008 whether this is not a hateful solution, and I think that was actually a hateful solution at the time. As a liberal person and as an entrepreneur, I have to show a liberal attitude, even though I am aware that health policy is not insanely wise: It is still a businessman’s free choice whether or not to be a smoker’s place. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] In this respect, the free choice should still be possible, because a local is not a public place. But we are also bending on the whole issue of health policy, and that is also important. The question remains: Where does that end? - That's the jumping point! The entrepreneur may also get into the situation that his guests are going at the door to smoke, and the neighbor who lives on it says: They can't smoke down there anymore! [[Abg. Strache: In the future, the smokers will get pneumonia in winter!]] Where does this law end? And what legal certainty is there? – These issues need to be clarified in this context. Since you are sitting here and because the Minister for Social Affairs has just been sitting here, I would like to draw your attention to something and demonstrate it accordingly with a poster. [[The speaker put a poster entitled “How to Destroy SPÖVP Jobs in Tourism” on the speaker’s desk.]] After all, what significance does the whole thing have? – The smoking problem is not the problem of entrepreneurs and tourism. Your tax package will be the future problem! The tax package will be the future problem on the labour market, for SMEs, small and medium-sized enterprises in this country! What's happening? – A hoteler or gastronomy operator has set 13 percent logis for his hotel. However, this 13 percent logis can only cover the entrepreneur with a ten percent price increase if you calculate inflation. The entrepreneur can't swallow that alone! The only ones who earn the gross price are the booking platforms. Okay. So what does this entrepreneur do? - He needs to rationalize. He reduces jobs so that he gets the same result under the line. Then you've done something else that's very serious for a hotel business. They have increased the amortization period to 40 years. What's the result? – One has to rationalise again, i.e. to rehabilitate jobs in order to lead a company rationally. Then you can leave a bit of money in reserves, but that is also pointless, because there is also an increased Kest. And last but not least, the basic acquisition tax comes in terms of which each of my successors is considering whether he is paying this tax or whether he is not closing the business. – This is annihilation of jobs! This is the clear destruction of economic and economic measures! Mr Haider said it first: Accompanied on this smoker theme, other matters decided on during your term of office are still difficult, such as the resolution, the flight tax, the removal of the energy tax compensation, the energy efficiency and eco-current rate, the wage dumping law and the Allergensverordnung (Allergensverordnung). And now tell me that you are an economic party and that you are doing something for the benefit of tourism and businesses in that country! I conclude with the sentence: “You can’t really rely on anything anymore today!”
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e9116	Next item is the report by Mr Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e9138	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Our Mrs. Minister of Health Dr. Sabine Oberhauser on the TV! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to comment on a little – Gabriel Obernosterer: Of course, the positions go across the political groups. I am certainly not going to go out here as an enemy of a ban, but there are a few points to be made. First: Who else, apart from the Minister for Health, has the task of setting up as wide a scheme as possible in the interests of public health? Sabine Oberhauser has achieved something the health ministers have only dreamed of in the 1990s: Finally, there is a decision for a total ban on smoking in the gastronomy. Congratulations, sweet Sabine! This is a great performance in the sense of non-smoker protection! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This area is normally a natural contradiction to the interests of the Minister for Economic Affairs, Mr Reinhold! The checks and balances in a democracy require everyone to be in charge of his area, and logically, the applause for the Minister of Economic Affairs will be significantly smaller on such issues – let us say – and I do not want to address the Django records at all. This is a difficult position! One has to be aware of this: You will not be able to get uniform opinions in the political groups on this issue. We must always find a necessary compromise between the need for protection and the economic interests of businesses. In this context, I invite you to cooperate. I'm just afraid that some of those who appear here today are more interested in populism and perhaps not quite the importance of being honest with you. I would like to start with the exponents: My criticism – and otherwise I understand myself quite well with the Minister of Economic Affairs – is that the argumentation needs to be in some cases tightened. We will not find complete legal certainty in many complex areas. There is the argument: 15,000 ads would be a million criminal proceedings in road transport if they were transferred to another area. Nobody knows. Once you can drive 50 kilometres, once only 80 with rain, then again 100 or 130. You can't turn off the vehicle everywhere. – But the logical consequence of this cannot be that one says: We need a total ban! – This is not yet viable as argumentation. We will have exactly such demarcation problems in a new area. The smokers will still be on their way. For example, we need to find and adapt solutions to smoking rooms in hotels. Today, the government parties commit themselves to smoking protection, including in the gastronomy. [[Abg. Schieder: For non-smoker protection!]] However, we will certainly talk about the technical details and may need to make changes in a few years. However, the adaptation of provisions is a necessary part of a rule of law and democracy, and we do not need the accusations of the FPÖ, whose credibility is even questionable. In this context, this party or Mr. Strache speaks of liberality and that one should leave every one of His. But this party has also documented “Daham instead of Islam”. [[Abg. Strache: And right we had!]] This party distinguishes people according to whether they go to the mosque or to the Orthodox Church, and wants to move those who go into the mosque. This party cries out if, for example, the Minister of Justice wants a decriminalization of the consumption of marijuana: Lock in! Now, though, do you suddenly want to argue with liberality?- Oh, my God! – Please go, leave this chapter! [[Abg. Strache: Do you really believe the nonsense that you feel?]] So you're almost on the level like the green friends who have been for “Legalize it” for five years, and now suddenly, because it’s no longer good for some bobos to play the sharp anti-smoking party. To be honest: This kind of use of the theme does not bring us further! I believe that we must work on this proposal from the Government to find a solution, and I would like to list the relevant areas. If we make a complete ban on smoking and also tell the hotels that they are not allowed to offer smoking rooms, then we operate non-smoking protection for foreign guests. That's okay. However, this is an Airbnb promotion, and that is why we will certainly have to discuss these things. If ‘heat swabs’ require an operating permit in front of the door [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] [[Further calls at FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Mr Minister for Economic Affairs, do we want to discuss this in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy? I hope that the proposal is such that we can discuss one part of tobacco in the Health Committee and the other part in the Economic Committee in order to achieve a reasonable implementation of the smoking ban. On the other hand, we do not need all kinds of populism. Whoever does this honestly, like Heinz Pollishansky, with more than 300,000 signatures, belongs to my esteem. But we certainly do not need the racers of the FPÖ! Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e9228	The next item is the report by Mr Rasinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e9251	Madam President. Mr. Minister! High house! You're not gonna be surprised that I'm a doctor for strict protection. But I want to tell you now why. I had the feeling today that all of this is so loose that you decide or not. – The fact is: In Austria, 20 percent die prematurely from smoking, at least 16,000 people, and on average, they lose eight years of their life expectancy. Now you could say: It's always meated, because everyone's lucky forge. But look at this from the point of view of a doctor, for example from my point of view. Not rarely do I have to tell people in the four-eye conversation, just like last week: Dear Mrs Soundso! Unfortunately, you have lung cancer. Unfortunately! – As a result, people get together regularly and always say like a pattern: Why me? Why didn't I quit earlier? - That's a kind of self-esteem. But very, very often people also say: Why did I even start? Why didn't anyone stop me? If you consider that of 40 000 cancer cases in Austria a third is proven not only but mainly caused by smoking, then this is actually an order for health policy to act. In view of the fact that dementia, vascular fasteners, heart attack, stroke, asthma caused by smoking with worsening or even triggered, I must tell you: From the point of view of a doctor who has responsibility, it is quite clear that there is a need for protection rules, and that is why the 2008 regulation was a first important step, and I do not want to put that into debate, but we now know, if we look at it internationally, that further steps need to be taken. You have to tell the host: You're not to blame for the problem. The hosts also do not stand alone for the smoking problem. The hosts also don't put children's cigarettes in the mouth. However, it is a disaster, as without responsibility in Austria, how parents deal with their own responsibilities to the children. Mrs Glavischnig has already said so. If eleven-year-olds start smoking on average, if we have the highest smoking rate together with Greenland and smoke 13 or 14-year-olds regularly, then something is wrong. I can say to the bans on smoking in the gastronomy. There is already experience in Europe. What does a smoking ban bring in the gastronomy, except that the host says they're angry? – There are experiences from, for example, Italy, Scotland and Cetera, that, interestingly, the infarction rate has decreased by about 10 percent, and that is already essential. Look at this. We cannot therefore just stand here on the question of smoking in the locals. Internationally, the train goes a lot, much further. In particular, we must ensure that young people do not start at all. That's why I've been expecting prevention campaigns! We also need to see that smoking in the cause question is cost-effective at all. I do not see at all why non-smokers should subsidize. If I look at German studies, such as the German Cancer Research Institute, and find that the costs to Austria are about 3.3 billion, then I have to say that tobacco tax amounts to 1.7 billion more modest. And if you say we're going to ban those under 18 years of age from smoking, I'm saying, Of course, it would have a charm if we could do it at all! 16-year-olds should not smoke today, but if we see that smoking already eleven years old, then I have to say that it is pointless to ban smoking from 18 or 20, even if we know that starting from 18 onwards, the entry rate is very low. On the other hand, the exit rate is very low, and the exit is very difficult. We know that even heart attack patients only manage to stop 50 percent. That means: Even with death in mind, many people simply cannot defeat their addiction. That is why I believe that it is not just a question of bans on this issue. Prohibitions are important. But as a health politician and doctor, I would also like to formulate a goal: Given that today about a third of the people in Austria are smoking, so far too many, and that they are suffering personal disasters on a regular basis, I think it would be useful if we tried to get down to about 20 percent of smoking within ten years. Then those who can live healthyly for eight years will be very grateful to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e9310	The next item is the speech by Mr Wurm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e9331	Madam President. Minister! High house! Values Seer at home in front of the screens! [[The speaker puts on the speaker’s desk “No to the absolute ban on smoking! ”]] [[Abg. Jarolim: The table is on the head!]] I have to say quite honestly: In recent years, I have had a personal problem with this mental disability of moralists, but millions of Austrians are hard on my nerves too! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Lopatka: That's no terror!]] One has to say: This attitude of moralists is disturbing the massive majority of Austrians, and that is precisely the reason, Minister, why you do not allow this referendum to happen. This is the same as with the German anthem: Whenever there is a clear majority on a subject in the people, you do not want to ask the people. Switzerland questioned the people on this issue, and the result was quite clear. In Switzerland, a total ban on smoking has been imposed. [[Federal Minister Mitterlehner: And how did one speak in Bavaria?]] Minister! In Germany, too, a false information: In 13 federal states of 16 in Germany there are, of course, exceptions in the gastronomy. As a minister, you should know that! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Let's take a short look at the numbers: 38 percent of Austrians smoke at least occasionally, with cigars and pipe smokers included in this number. My question on this point is: Are the Austrian second class? Do these people count less? Don't they have citizens' rights? – You should ask these questions once. It is quite clear that the opinion we have on this matter is of a liberal nature: We stand for freedom of choice. It must be free for any Austrian to be able – as I am now saying – to be able to meet his vice, including in the gastronomy. And what you do with this law is a clear circumcision of civil rights and, of course, of business rights. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Minister, thanks to this government, we also have numerous problems in Austria. We have a budget problem, an educational problem, a pension problem. But at the moment we have two huge problems, Mr Minister, when you ask me, and you are responsible for this: First, we have an economic growth problem and second, an unemployment problem. So please explain to me how this measure on smoking can contribute positively to improving these two problems, namely economic growth and unemployment! Just the opposite is the case: This will have a negative impact on both factors. Perhaps an example from Tyrol: You know that very well. This is what your own ÖVP people see in the Chamber of Commerce: The chairman of the tourism division in Tyrol, Mr Ultsch, resigned two days ago, and the reason was quite clear: He is desperate about the emphasising in Vienna and the economic hostility and practical remoteness of this federal government. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You have to imagine this: Mr Ultsch has been a tourist observer in Tyrol for many years, and I think Tyrol is a tourism country number one. And if the top official of the board voluntarily and surprisingly reserves his position for all and says that he simply can't continue to work, because the conditions are a horror in Vienna, then six alarm bells should ring with you! Let's go to the gastronomy again. It is clear that with these measures we will intentionally affect the entire coffee house tradition and inn culture in Austria until we destroy it. And it is also clear that exactly the non-smokers we are always talking about will of course not storm the pubs, bees and bars if no smoking is allowed. On the other hand, the smokers will be there less often, also consume less, and as a result, the entrepreneur loses coverage contributions, revenues – and the whole supply industry is also hanging out; these are the beverage suppliers, which are equipment in the gastronomy sector. That's similar to the sect tax you never thought about what's going on in the back. Of course, you don't want to give up on €1.7 billion in tax revenue. Also a topic: In this area there are 280 000 employees, especially a very difficult group – these are very many part-time workers, a lot of women, also very many less qualified ones – and exactly in this group you will be significantly strengthening the unemployment problem again. With this law they also intervene in the club life – I don't know who read it – that goes far beyond the gastronomy and it also goes far beyond closed spaces. [[the speaker shall keep a document up to date]] That means what you're planning here, there's no smoking clubs around the world, because you can also make smoking clubs in America over there, you can smoke outdoors in America. These are all things that are not understandable to me anyway. You also have all the e-cigarettes with you. If they have an impact on the health of passive smokers now, Mr Rasinger, I am no longer aware of it. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] The facts would still be enough to tell, I am just a short example – Italy, because it is always addressed –: Italy has the same derogation
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e9429	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you for your final sentence.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e9444	The facts would be enough, I come to the conclusion: We liberals are clearly opposed to this bill. We stand for freedom of choice, we want a referendum, even as the citizens are involved, and We are in favour of another, namely a positive economic policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e9477	The next speaker to speak is Mrs Dr. Mückstein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e9498	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear listeners! I have to say that I am really concerned about how a health policy really important topic is being instrumentalized specifically by the FPÖ. [[Abg. New builder: You want to release the drugs!]] [[Interlocutory calls from Deimek and Belakovich-Jenewein.]] I cannot imagine that you are not aware of what you are talking about, and I do not want to note that this Parliament should not be able to differentiate and to highlight two issues at the same time. [[Abg. New builder: Speak to drugs!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] In this area, there is a huge health policy issue that affects young people in particular, and we now also have a problem of the host. It should be possible to discuss both, but to hide one and talk only more about the other, I think that is absolutely irresponsible. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[call to the FPÖ.]] You've heard it twice or three times today: 25 percent of the 15-year-olds in Austria smoke, one third of them started smoking at an average of 13. [[Abg. Kitzmüller: But they don't smoke in the house anyway!]] 53 percent of those under the age of 19 smoke. What do you say? [[Interlocutors Walter Rosenkranz and Doppler.]] In what form do you take responsibility for this state of health disaster? We are at the end of this in Europe, and this cannot remain the case! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] You've been yelling from one bank to another to me: Yes, do you want to ban smoking at home?! – No, we don’t want to ban smoking at home, we’re also for self-determination and self-reliance, but we’re also in favour of investing in prevention. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Yes, exactly!]] [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] [[Deputies Darmann and Neubauer point out snake-lined movements with their hands.]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Yes, exactly, children take away, best!]] Children and adolescents can learn to deal with addiction very early. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein]] I also understand that this is an emotional topic, because it's about addiction. It is always very emotional to take away people’s drugs – okay, agree – but we also need to find reasonable solutions to ensure that at least children and young people don’t start smoking at all. [[Abg. Kitzmüller: But non-smoker protection!]] And that's possible, that's what the international studies show. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkränz: Testimony Prohibition for Smoking Couples!]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: classical theme failure!]] International studies suggest smoke-free gastronomy, lower availability – i.e. by buying cigarettes only later – and good prevention, campaigns aimed at children and young people, reduce smoking between 10 and 20 percent. [[call to the FPÖ.]] I believe that this could be achieved, and these are very good results, which can be taken seriously in Austria as well. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I think it's important that we take in more money for prevention. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] We have said several times that 5 percent of tobacco tax should receive prevention campaigns. [[New call of the abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] It is about training children and young people already in kindergarten and school with life-skilling programmes. [[Interlocutors Belakovich-Jenewein and Walter Rosenkranz.]] What's that about? – It’s about addiction prevention, and that is to say, kindergarten children and schoolchildren should learn to deal well with conflicts, emotional stress and stress. [[Abg. Kitzmüller: Hands away from our children!]] That's one. They should also learn to recognize advertising offers and lock offers and to resist them. This is important, and we do not have to invent it in Austria, there is something in the EU and is already being practised, with success. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: (showing a document) Explain to us the life competence program for children, please!]] On the gastronomy and the project, as is now stated in the draft law: We are not quite satisfied with this either. We have calculated this, according to the draft, that would mean that those who implement smoking freedom already until June 2016 and thus do not wait until 2018 will receive a 10-percent premium for the remaining book value 2015. That would be too little for us. I don't think that's a fair offer. Let's figure this out. For example, someone invested €30 000 in 2009, then the remaining book value in 2015 would be €15 000 if it was written down to eight years, and 10 percent of which would be €1 500. [[Interlocutory calls by Mr Belakovich-Jenewein and Mr Kitzmüller]] [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] I don't think that's enough, and it would bother me as a freelance also if I were fed with it. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Big.]] I think we should demand a premium of 50 percent and a premature extraordinary depreciation of the residual values and, in any case, a fee for all those who already invested in non-smokers protection before 2009.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e9763	Ladies and gentlemen, would you please come to the conclusion?
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e9779	Last sentence: You also have to consider how to meet those who do not make profits. We are thinking of a tax credit for all the gastronomy in this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e9806	The next speaker was Mr Ertlschweiger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e9827	Madam President. Dear Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen in front of the televisions at home! Much of what has been said today, I stress – from both sides, both by smokers and by smokers – I only think that we are having an extremely hypocritical discussion today. Col. Matznetter makes himself, holds an anti-smoker speech, and the first thing he does after that is to storm into the smoking room backwards. Ladies and gentlemen, in the back of the smoking chamber, Members of Parliament stand with Krainer, Kucher, Wenninger and smoke themselves. What kind of discussion is that? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] We must also prohibit smoking in Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, not only in the locals! [[Congratulations with the Stronach team, representatives of the FPÖ and the Abg. Vavrik.]] We must also prohibit it in Parliament and move forward with a good example. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] – You will be happy to report later. To get to the point now: I think the old regulation was useful. The host has fulfilled the requirements – we have heard today, over €100 million have been invested in the reconstruction measures – and this works. I have to say that I am a non-smoker personally, and I feel comfortable in a place if I don't smoke. But I don't have a problem with smoking, because it's up to me whether I'm visiting this place or not. As I see it, one has to release it to the host, whether they declare their local smoker location or as a non-smoker local. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I don't think this premeditation is going on. We all want more personal responsibility for people, we want people to act independently and that they can also be held responsible for their actions. It is everyone's own; I mean, it's not a secret: Of course, smoking hurts, that is clear to everyone, and passive smoking also hurts, but then that must be the next step: For example, if I am traveling in Vienna or on the countryside and see a smoking mother in the car with a grandchild on the back seat, I think that should also be banned and put under punishment – quite clearly when we go that far! But then we have to conduct this discussion honestly, objectively and fairly, and then we in Parliament have to ban smoking and not just the gastronomy, because otherwise people feel crocheted, otherwise they believe they decide to do something. Or, today, this has already been mentioned, the Allergen Regulation: It doesn't seem to be an innkeeper anymore. I was now in my home town of Pöttsching at a host who hung up a table: Eat at your own risk! – Well, can it be? I also knew before what I can eat and what I can't eat, please, I do not need an EU regulation. Today it has also been said: Not everything that comes from the EU must be implemented unconditionally and must not be questioned! So I think we have to stop the premeditation policy. We need to give people more self-reliance, we need to stimulate them to live up to this self-reliance, and we need to let the host live, so I can understand the FPÖ's request; it is good and important, and we support it. Because we were already at the hypocrisy: It is indeed a discussion about the legalization of cannabis being burned! There is a discussion about the legalization of cannabis, and in the locals we forbid smoking! - What do people have to think? What is this sign for the youth? What do young people think? On the one hand, cannabis may be legalized, and on the other hand, I must not smoke when I go to a local! - So I think it's really holy. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team, representatives of the FPÖ and the Abg. Vavrik.]] I believe that people are self-determined, want to take on their own responsibility, and that they can be trusted – for what is going to happen after the ban on smoking? Will there be a ban on the stomach? Does it mean you can't have a stomach anymore? If, for example, I'm sitting on the plane and sitting next to me a little bit of a benevolent, and I may feel discriminated because I paid the same price as he, will there be a ban on the belly? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] What's next? Is it then a command to have at least one hour to move every day because we know that it is economic benefit if people leave when they are more powerful? So I don't think this premeditation policy is bringing us forward. We need to stimulate people to be more responsible, and then, I think, we can also conduct this discussion objectively – but please lead them objectively and not so hypocritically! That is why a ban on smoking in Parliament would be a good sign of a good example. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e9924	Mr Ertlschweiger, there is something like self-responsibilities about the choice of words, and you know that it is our task not to violate the dignity of this House. The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e9948	Madam President. Dear Members of the Government! High house! Appreciate audiences on the gallery and in front of the screens! Mr Ertlschweiger, if you call on the matter, I would like to hear that, but then I would like you to comment on your own appeal as well. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Austrian politics has been dealing with the issue of smoking ban in gastronomy for many years now, and my group welcomes the direction of a general ban on smoking in gastronomy, particularly from the point of view of worker protection, but I would like to say one thing, Mr Vice-Chancellor: The learning curve of this federal government is somewhat flat, if it has lasted from 2008 until now, to recognize that the solution taken was a Murks. If the students entering the Central Matura this year also have such a flat learning curve, they will not create it. When I conclude from the learning speed of this government's ban on smoking to the learning speed of the really big questions – for example, regarding the holes in the pension system – I am afraid and afraid if we already need so long in small things. I also note that there is no fairness in the argument made here by some parties, because arguments are mixed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nice to meet you.]] You have to be careful that you need the necessary worker protection – we need worker protection, 150 000 people work in the gastronomy, and they deserve to protect their health – not mixed with a better-knowing “I know what’s good for you, and you don’t smoke now!” In my opinion, this error is happening by the Federal Government, for otherwise it cannot happen that the project will also be taken into account in the ban on smoking by associations. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] This is an intervention in the private autonomy of people. If people meet in a club venue and play bridge there – or in Vorarlberg, or in Tyrol, or in Tyrol, or whatever – they should be allowed to smoke in their club venue. [[Abg. Schönegger: What?]] – You should be allowed to smoke from me what you want, Mr Schönegger, but you know that I see this very easily. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] But they prescribe to people what they are allowed to do in their private premises, and this shows the understanding of this federal government of private autonomy and a separation between public and private spaces. Mr Wurm has taken the Swiss example. As I have to say, the Swiss example is another example, there is a ban on smoking in public areas where one or more jobs exist. [[call to the FPÖ.]] You probably wanted to relax the host by taking the club halls into the control, and preventing bypasses, but you shot over the target, because you probably wanted to catch apparent clubs. If you had done it right from worker protection, you would have prevented such circumvention structures, but you have not done so, and this shows the bad political craftsmanship and the bad legistic craftsmanship that is being worked with here. [[call to the FPÖ]] It's the next punch, and we're going to be in front of corrections again – and no one can want this chaos. The hostess has had the chaos for years, and I fear that now the clubs will have for a few years the chaos that this federal government causes.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e10025	Again, Mr. Vice-Chancellor Dr. Mitterlehner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e10046	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I think it was at least a debate on a few lines. I would ask you to continue this debate in this very context. If there are words like “feminine terrorism” thrown into the debate completely, then, I believe, we are already there at a level that is somewhat problematic. But you have countered this level with your own argumentation – inadvertently, I believe – when Mrs Dietrich, Mr Schellhorn and even colleague Matznetter talk about what it is like with fast-food locations when someone does something harmful to themselves. You haven't heard before, I think, just once: That's what it's all about, that's what's doing someone alone, and that's damaging his health – it's supposed to be! The difference, however, is the following – and there you have argued further –: What if the smoker goes in front of the local and may bother the neighbors? So, in your own argument, you even insist that someone else may feel hurt – and of course this does not only apply to the neighbor, that of course also applies to the other guests who are non-smokers. Therefore: Maybe turn your thinking around once, and think out of the position of a non-smoker who feels affected by it! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] This would influence the discussion differently. [[call to the FPÖ.]] Secondly, as regards the ability to learn, I say to you: At the time, I felt that this was a half-hearted arrangement. Tourism absolutely wanted this scheme, but it was decided by Parliament, but the practice has shown that it does not work optimally. That is why it is, of course, up to Parliament and to all those responsible for this. If you include trust protection and say, well, then you have to ensure that the transition period is also guaranteed, then this is a serious process that has nothing to do with learning. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: You are somehow at the dialectic...! But, well, we'll have an educational debate in the afternoon, and we'll see that again!]] The next point I noticed is the keyword: You can't rely on anything anymore. – Yes, you have to be able to rely on having a differentiated discussion, dear Sepp Schellhorn, because with all the problems that the gastronomy has, you should differentiate from where they come from! Some have not been caused by me. Parliament has decided on one or the other. - That's all right, too. Only in the case of accessibility, with allergens have I had many years of implementation. They say that many feel low and impaired. – Let’s discuss it when it comes to lifting one or the other, whether you’re all going along! Take the issue of accessibility, and imagine what it would be like to have in the debate – rightly in part – with the community! – Should we not deal with how we implement this somewhat practical and from proportionality? That'll be the jumping point! I wouldn't mess things up either. Sepp Schellhorn is himself a successful hoteler. We have a record every year, this year it was not quite 130 million nights. – Do you think that speaks for the inability of the hoteliers in Austria to compete? If we continue to give the impression in the discussion that we are totally on the ground, the guest will no longer come to us! So I would be a little careful in dealing with problems and their public representation. [[Abg. Schellhorn: That's not true!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] Last but not least, Mr Neubauer, because you made your calls again: This is all right, but I would also like to say that Parliament is a place of debate, and Parliament is a place of rhetoric. Some Members need a Taferl to support rhetoric. I may have used some statistics or something else myself. But what Mr Haider is doing, I find that outside of any discussion. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Oh, don't be sad!]] [[Abg. Haider: This is not illegal!]] That's embarrassing at a demonstration, but then make it yourself and show it inside here – apologise, that's under every belt line! That's a personal agitation, I don't stand for that. I'm in favour of arguments. If you have any, bring them in, but you better not do that anymore. This is a witness of poverty! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e10161	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[10:42:44]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e10182	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[10:43:05]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e10452	The NEOS-Klub has in accordance with § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure requested urgent consideration of the written question 4564/J tabled before the entry into the agenda by Dr Strolz, colleagues and colleagues to the Federal Minister for Education and Women on ‘Two-time educational emergency in Austria: a lack of education strategy and a growing budget hole’. Under the Rules of Procedure, the urgent question will be discussed at 3 p.m. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e10474	The debate on points 2 to 5, 9 to 12, 13 to 15, 17 to 19, 20 and 21 as well as 22 to 24 of the agenda is proposed. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. [[10:44:10]] Application in accordance with § 69 para. 3 GOOD
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e10498	It is my request according to § 69 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure to take the Federal Act, which lays down the Federal Financial Framework Act 2016 to 2019, 583 of the Supplements, at first reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this sign to do so. – This is unanimously accepted. We are now going into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e10527	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 8 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP per 108 minutes, FPÖ 100, Green 84 as well as Stronach and NEOS per 44 minutes. Between the political groups it was agreed to hold two rounds of speakers by size of the political groups at the first reading of the Federal Law, which will adopt the Federal Financial Framework Act 2016 to 2019. We shall now proceed to the vote on the speaking time just presented. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign in this regard. – This is unanimously accepted. [[10:45:48]] 1. Point First reading: Bundesgesetz, with which the Federal Financial Framework Act 2016 to 2019 will be adopted – BFRG 2016-2019 (583 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e10573	We'll get to the 1st. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. Mr Klubobmann Mag is the first to speak. Arbitrator. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e10600	Madam President. Mr Finanzminister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Before I deal with the Federal Financial Framework, I would like to say that I am pleased not only to welcome the Pensionist Group from Gampern, Vöcklabruck district, in our name, not only on behalf of Members Holzinger, who are from the region. – We are glad that you came to us from Upper Austrian! [[General condolences.]] Dear viewers on the televisions and on the gallery! The Federal Financial Framework gives an outlook on state finances for the years 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019. The specific budget for 2016 will be set at 14. We are discussing here in the house on October. Nevertheless, it is necessary to make this medium-term financial planning. Our modern budgetary law gives us the opportunity to discuss the status quo, where we stand, where we need to improve, where opportunities and risks exist in the Austrian state budget, also on an objective basis. A look back into the story shows that this is not easy. The strategy report on the last financial framework, in which the basic economic data are also summarised, is estimated to be 1.7% growth in gross domestic product. The real value achieved in 2014 was 0.3 percent growth. This is 1.4 percentage points difference, a major challenge for the government budget, because it means less revenue, poorer economic growth, weak economy and, most of the time, more expenditure on social security systems. For the Maastricht deficit, 2.7 percent were forecast and it was better: It was 2.4%. This shows that Austria's budgeting is always on the safe side, rather than the lower positions and the higher positions in revenue. The structural deficit, projected at 1 percent, is likely to be 0.3 percent of the gross domestic product in 2014. This is not a coincidence, it is not happiness either, but it is the product of consistent policy that shows itself here. This does not fall from heaven, and it is therefore both a budgetary and financial success and a general political success that this Federal Government has landed. The outlook we now have in the financial framework is not, by the way, something that officials in the Ministry of Finance, the Federal Chancellery or the Appellate Office are looking for. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. This must be adjusted and taken as a basis. It is necessary, I believe, that the financial debate is based on real-economies, although forecasts by the economic research institutes in economically changing times are of course also uncertain. We expect this year to be very weak with half a percent growth, and it will not be until 2016, with 1.4 percent growth, until 2019, with 1.9 percent growth, a slight economic recovery. We also believe, however, that the tax reform, which is going to be used in private expenditure by people having more money in their pockets and spending more, will strengthen domestic demand and support economic growth, which is why slightly better values than planned for the next year. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A great deal has been discussed as regards new spending limits and individual departments, many of which will still be discussed here in Parliament, because we are still at first reading, that is, the subject remains on the tapet. It is important to me, however, to stress that, especially in times of economic stagnation, it is necessary to make accents consciously even in the offensive field, without endangering financial stability. I would therefore like to mention what is being done. This includes the expansion of school day care with €80 million per year, the expansion of childcare facilities with €100 million per year or the 24-hour care that will receive up to €100 million as a financial basis by 2018. Recently, measures such as broadband expansion with €200 million to €300 million in the coming years, the 50+ employment package or the security offensive have been added. Perhaps another conclusion: We are clear, stable state finances are possible if you look at the budget; if you look to ensure efficient use of resources everywhere; if you look at revenue by ensuring that the taxes to be paid are also paid; if you pay attention to tax justice; if you bring relief and at the same time support the economy in such a way that growth and employment are given, because only with employment works not only social cohesion but ultimately also the budget. In Austria, however, this is ensured!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e10682	Mr Klubobmann Dr. Lopatka is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e10704	Madam President. Mr Finanzminister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! If we want to achieve what is contained in this Federal Financial Framework Act, we need courage, namely courage to reform. We have seen that the Federal Government is able to set up reforms in good time. The Federal Government has shown this in its tax reform. It was a first important step. In the past – colleague Arbitrators have addressed it – it has succeeded in keeping what we have predicted. What do we want in the future? – We want a sustainable structural zero deficit, we want sustainable economic growth, and in order to achieve that, we stand as the Austrian People’s Party for Reforms. Where are we now? – It has succeeded in creating a structural zero deficit in 2014 through discipline and sustainable operation. Although the debt ratio has not reached 86 percent, at least 84.5 percent, so there is no reason for one to lean back. A strict budget implementation, a strict regime in the withdrawal of reserves, but also the abandonment of large, expensive new projects and the Stability Pact with the municipalities and the federal states have led to a better outcome. This is now the case with this Federal Financial Framework Act in order to create this structural zero deficit also in 2015 and 2016. It is clear that we have something to do on the expenditure side. We have a total of 164 billion euros in revenue. This represents expenditure of €172 billion. So what do we have? We do not have a revenue problem, but clearly one on the expenditure side. And the Federal Government has an obligation to do something on its part on the expenditure side, namely that it saves not with citizens but in its own sphere. And we need reform measures to do this. We need reforms in the field of administration, in the field of promotions, in the labour market and also in pensions. In my opinion, in the pension sector in particular, there is a trend in which we need urgent action. It could be established that until 29. An evaluation must be carried out on February 2016 – a long period anyway – in order to increase the retirement age if it is necessary. It is not about intervening in existing pensions – I say to the seniors who are here. I'm sure not. What it's all about is the guarantee of pensions for the disciples. That too is our duty, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There are still special rules, which we unfortunately do not respond to if the Court of Auditors presents us with facts, such as in this Court of Auditors report of 11. ==References====External links== He confirms what I have always said and what is still so well-staged about the press conferences of Director-General Kern. Nice weather press conferences don't help if we have a problem. The Court of Auditors says: “The actual average retirement age of the Federal Railways officials was only 52,49 years between 2002 and 2013. Although the pension reforms for the Federal Railways officials took place at the same time as those of the Federal Officials and resulted in an increase in the required retirement age and the required total service time, the average retirement age of the Federal Railways officials remained largely the same during this period. The difference between the statutory and the actual retirement age of the Federal Railways officials also increased.” This is a state where we all have to say we have to act. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The taxpayer costs the pensions € 2.1 billion – € 2 100 million! – in this year – with increasing trend! In 2005, that is, ten years ago, the amount was €1.7 billion – €1 700 million! This increase corresponds to the overall budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which Austria's interests have to represent worldwide. On the one hand, it is the increase rate, on the other hand, exactly what the entire resort has available – just to keep the order of magnitude. I could also, of course, mention the Federal Capital of Vienna, which the Court of Auditors finds clear in its last report. Fritz Neugebauer is one who is being scourged over and over again. At the federal level, however, he has supported this reform, which has not yet been implemented by the Federal Capital of Vienna – although the mayor of Vienna, colleague Schieder, signed the financial compensation with his signature. [[Abg. Arbitrator: Why don't you talk about the Styria? Redeem from the Styria! Or from Graz – the black Graz!]] Just, he doesn't do what he signed. He even gives up quite a fleet of sagars in the direction of the Minister for Finance, if I may remind him. The Court of Auditors says that 350 million € are lost here. According to the Court of Auditors' report, an average of 57 years old is spent on pension in Vienna, the Federal Officials of the Federal Republic of Germany at the age of 60. Three years' cost something! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have to start with these special arrangements, but we also have to look at our system as a whole to do something on the expenditure side here, so that we can also have money when it comes to boosting our economic growth. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] This federal financial framework provides for an amount of €920 million for education, universities and research within the framework of the science package. This is important: Save where one can save to spend where it is necessary, so that Austria remains at the top of Europe! That is the objective of this Federal Financial Framework Act. I am grateful to the Minister for Finance for the presentation, because we respect Maastricht criteria here. And when we are disciplined, we will actually create what our goal should be in 2019: a zero deficit.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e10770	The next item is the speech by Mr Podgorschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e10792	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I have been in this House for five years now, and every year I hear similar arguments in a budget debate: the budget is being renovated, the budget timetable is on track, the budget is being respected. – Finally, it turns out again and again that the tax and tax rate has increased. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lopatka.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In general, it must be the priority objective of politics that people have more money in their pockets at the end of the day, and we have to take care of it as politicians. As a matter of fact, then, the idea of organizing a tax reform is nothing bad. Above all, to reduce the tax rates, that is an old demand, including the opposition, but this tax reform, ladies and gentlemen, goes completely empty, because the desired effect that people should have more money in their pocket is again completely puffed by the cold progression that was not taken into account at the latest in 2019. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This has been calculated by tax experts, namely the Society for Applied Economic Research in Innsbruck, and the counter-funding, as it is always presented, has only come about from the need that on 17 November, the A tax reform had to be on the table on March. This counter-funding is built on sand, it stands on tones. The fact that the government wants to win € 1 billion from tax fraud is basically only showing the distrust of the government of its own population. Just by the way: In Greece and Italy, there is also an obligation to register funds, and this proves what an excellent and effective instrument this is. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz:... the Schäuble also says!]] Ladies and gentlemen! A real reform can only succeed if, in parallel, the tax and tax rate and above all, the social taxes are massively reduced, because then more money is left in the hands of people in the final effect. Otherwise, no tax reform takes effect. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The achievement of a structural zero deficit cannot be the main purpose or purpose, but is a prerequisite for people to have more money again. In an analysis, the Federal Minister is quite right: We have a problem with expenditure and not revenue. Mr Lopatka, I too am quite right to say: We need courage to reform! The main problem I am seeing at the moment – it is not the first time I have made this known on the spot – is the interaction between the federal government and countries, which, at the end of the day, has an impact on the unwarranted financial settlement negotiations, which I hope will be conducted properly in 2016, because from my point of view, the countries still have too much money. We need a responsibility for expenditure and revenue in one hand, and finally these triple and multiple subsidies must be abolished. Not for nothing was meant to install a transparency database, but unfortunately it is still a torso and an empty cover, and the result is inefficient funding flows. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Loacker.]] Mr. Federal Minister, you can remember: As the chairman of the main association of social security companies, they once joined us in the club and explained the funding flows in the health care sector. I was totally fascinated by how the whole thing is going, and I can see one thing – you showed us a wonderful graphic –: A spider network is an easy-to-understand network compared to financing in health care. Another example: In my Federal State Upper Austria, there is a Council of the Greens who absolutely wants us to get out of the energy poverty. It finances refrigerators for less-mediated persons, so that they get refrigerators that do not have such a large energy consumption. This is not bad from the basic idea, but it costs €888,000. – Is this the task of a state to get people refrigerators? Where does that stop? Do we have a bicycle poverty in the near future, and then we have to subsidize bicycles? Or a holiday poverty? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] Do we have to finance the holiday? Or: In Upper Austria we afford a music theatre with an annual finish of €30 million forecast. – It’s nice if you can afford it, but today this is almost impossible. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The Court of Auditors has taken up the Presidents of the Council of State Schools and the whole field of education. We are discussing the need for teachers to work two hours more, but that we have two parallel structures in Upper Austria, no one says: a president, one who is to represent the head of state on and on behalf of the head of state, a deputy who has no competence at all, and then a councillor responsible for education. - It's saved! It's clear: This would be particularly painful for the ÖVP, for these are their officials who are in there, or their supply posts they have. However, we can only bring more money back to people if we have courage for reforms. We also have problems in the care sector – and we have to take this very clearly into account in the future – and we will need more money for care. Furthermore, I do not want to mention that – we now have a federal army, which is no longer able to cope with two disasters at the same time, since it is likely that the petrol is missing for expression, and now it is to be saved again. In my view, it is the wrong way to save at the expense of security. [[It was in favour of the FPÖ as well as of the representatives of the NEOS.]] That is why I would suggest that, ladies and gentlemen, we have, once again, installed an Austrian Convention to question all the structures, from the community to the highest level, because we have structures that have already been built in the monarchy and are still working very well. I believe that, at the latest since accession to the European Union, all of us are aware that we have an administrative level too much. I am not saying here where we have to save, that will ultimately have to judge an Austrian Convention. Finally, what we need is a real federalism, where real revenue and expenditure are in one hand. For example, one can focus on the Swiss model – direct democracy requires that the people can decide – or we orient ourselves to Bavaria, which is one-and-a-half times the size of Austria, but has a much slimmer structure, and with twelve million inhabitants it also finds its way out.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e10873	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e10895	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! It is already amazing that after a budget hole debate in the late autumn of 2013 for the 2014 budget, we have now achieved the EU targets for 2014 in terms of the structural deficit, and today, among those who applaud most, are exactly those who cried the loudest at the time. - That's weird. But after all, that's what it's supposed to be, it's a success that you shouldn't be talking about. However, it is not meant to be caught up in the budget, there are no reasons to do so, but to consider a medium-term budgetary strategy in the light of the challenges and problems, which will actually address these problems and challenges. I believe that this medium-term financial framework here does not do exactly what it will not do, Mr Federal Minister, for what you have said to the journalists: Austria is back at the top. No, it will not be enough, and I would like to make a few comments on this. What are the problems and challenges we face? – Once the high debt as a consequence of the crisis, which is currently manageable due to low interest rates, but certainly not in the long term. It is also mass unemployment. We are moving towards the 10% mark in terms of unemployment, according to national definition. We have over 400 000 unemployed people in this country. However, we do not have structural reforms – the last tax reform, which took place on 17 November. It was decided on 1 March. This has been a tax relief, but not a tax structural reform. There is no prioritisation in the future areas, even if you do not tire out in the Strategy Report, always point out that you provide sufficient resources for the future areas of science, education, research, the environment and infrastructure. Their response under this budgetary strategy is nothing but a reduction in expenditure in order to stabilise debt. They come from the business sector, and there this may be a real strategy, but when it comes to economic and social responsibility, this answer is certainly too short. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There are several objectives, including the adequate dosage of the future areas, on the road. It simply ignores the fight against mass unemployment, and what is missing in this strategy report and in this budgetary strategy is a budgetary policy change that tackles precisely those problems that I have been talking about. Such a change of course would probably require a departure from the austerity policy pursued in Austria and at EU level. This would require finally addressing those structural reforms that have been mentioned for years. But this would also require finally to do away with the future areas in such a way that it is sufficient for the implementation of what is intended. Let's take a look at individual areas! What happens in the future areas? – Let’s take the example of the environment. By 2019, the funds will be reduced simply and simply, although you say climate protection is an important concern for you. - Sorry, I can't share that. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: They mean only the Viktor climate!]] Or in education in 2015 and 2016: As a result, the ceilings on expenditure remain essentially unchanged, although there is a structural problem of sub-financing in the field of education. – Yes, I can't see all of this! Or take a look at the universities: Science and research, what does it look like? – Yes, more funds will be allocated in the context of offensive measures. That is true, but in order to achieve the target of 2% of GDP in the tertiary sector, this is unfortunately too little! That is why I cannot understand why you say that the areas of the future are important to you. – No, with no exception, all of this remains populist rhetoric, just as the question of the reforms of populist rhetoric remains. Let us just take the example of administrative reforms! You've been talking about that for years, and what to do Now, in the context of the counter-financing of the tax reform? – They reduce the administrative expenditure of staff. They cut the funding – and as always – according to the lawn mower method. This is the most popular method, and that is what you said yesterday in the report: The state should save itself so that it doesn't have to save the citizens! I haven't heard a greater displeasure in years. Saving staff costs saves public servants. Yes, these are not citizens, Mr. Finanzminister? [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Oja!]] Aren't these citizens? This displeasure, which existed already at Grasser's time, I actually thought was obsolete, but unfortunately no, it is also repeated by Mr Lopatka – who is not there – again and again. [[Calls]] [[on the table next to the government bank. Lopatka significant]] [[Call the FPÖ:Oh yes!]] – Usually he's there somewhere. [[Abg. Darmann: Lopatka is everywhere!]] Another word for tax relief: There's a lot of money spent, 4.9 billion euros. What's going on with it? – The real gross domestic product will increase by 0.4 percentage points by 2019, and only 8 400 jobs will be created. [[Abg. Darmann: again the numbers!]] That's what the WIFO has calculated. – After so much money, €4.9 billion for lapish 8,400 additional employees, so this is a poverty certificate against the background that we have more than 400 000 unemployed in Austria! Against this mass unemployment you have so far found no means, you can turn and turn as you want. With this strategy – and with this I want to conclude – you, Mr Finanzminister and my honourable ladies and gentlemen from SPÖ and ÖVP, will not lead Austria back to the top. This strategy will keep Austria on track of the crisis, namely with regard to the production of sustainable growth, with which one can also do something against mass unemployment while at the same time reducing debt, but also in terms of environmental and social policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e10998	The next item is the speech by Mr Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e11020	Mr President. High house! Mr Lopatka, it is always particularly interesting – now is not here right now – excuse me. [[Calls]] [[on the document in the Members' series. Lopatka significant]] [[Call the ÖVP: There he stands!]] [[Abg. Lopatka: You are blind!]] Mr Lopatka, I have been in Parliament for a long time, and I remember very well – it was in the Financial Committee about six years ago, you were the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance at the time – that you said exactly the same thing at that time as today. Six years ago, you said that there would be a lot to do in the field of pensions that there would be a lot to do in the administrative field, that funding must finally be done. At that time I addressed you and asked why you do not finally do it, because you already, or at least the ÖVP – we have read today on the Internet “70 years of ÖVP” – felt 70 years in the government. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Auer and Mr Wöginger.]] Since you could have done something in this country for so long, I asked you six years ago: Why didn't you do something? [[Abg. Lopatka: Have a lot happened too!]] You told me six years ago: Everything's getting better now! Now let's do it! Now we are doing something in the administrative field, in the field of pensions, in the promotions, everywhere we are doing something! Today you are standing back – six years later – and tell us the same story again. If you look at it today, you see, nothing has happened in the last six years, quite the contrary. It's just the opposite of what you're saying. [[Abg. Lopatka: That's wrong!]] In the area of pensions alone we now have 2 billion € increase in costs again, and you have done nothing. In the funding area, €14 billion goes out without anyone knowing why and why. Or just at the administration: How long have I heard: Administrative reform!? – Nothing happens! Now I'm wondering, What is the strategy behind that? – It is quite transparent, you play a double strategy. On the one hand, you make the wall, and today you have made the wall to the Lord Neugebauer, the Upper Blocker, the Upper Preventer, and on the other hand you play the opposition politician, come to the speaker's desk and tell: That's done and there and there's hapert's! As soon as you are in your own bodies and sit with the Minister of Finance, this is only a matter of: How can we prevent things? How can we prevent substantial cuts? How can we make sure that everything stays with the old? Your strategy is quite simple: They're making opposition policy here at the speaker's desk so people believe, the ÖVP, they've understood it anyway, they know what to do. But you block and prevent and ultimately operate voter purchase at voter's expense. [[Complementary of the Abg. Dietrich.]] That's what you do! You buy the voters at voters' cost by leaving everything as it is to re-distribut the money, so to speak, and then convince the people with sugars that you are being chosen to choose you. [[Call the ÖVP:You don't need to talk about your vote purchase! That's what you do!]] [[Abg. Auer: The mandates have been bought from you!]] [[Abg. Who bought you?]] That's the problem! That is, you do – and I say it again; you can't say it often enough – electorate at voter's expense. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] This is also seen in the tax reform, where you are doing something that is just, a tax relief, but you are financing the whole thing on pump, because you are not willing to do the homework! [[Abg. Wöginger: The Frank may buy you!]] If you don't believe that You drive a double strategy from the ÖVP – on the one hand, say where the problems are, on the other hand, prevent these problems from being addressed – then look at the Committee! [[Call the ÖVP: What's your business?]] [[Further calls at the ÖVP and the Abg. Rosary.]] We have a committee of inquiry, where the Minister then stands and says – and you always sit down and say that –: Yes, we want to find out, we want to finally find out what happened at the hypo! – And on the other hand, it will be covered. [[Abg. Wöger: Where?]] Yeah, where? Where? – It will be covered by your ministry, the Ministry of Finance, and you, Mr Minister, sending us files that are blackened, where we cannot see the context to what extent the Ministry of Finance was inaugurated into the operations surrounding the hypo. And that's where you stand and say you're for transparency, you want to find out. And you too, Mr Lopatka, want information – at least you always claim it. And then we get systematically covered! And that is the problem in this Republic! The problem in this Republic is that on the one hand it is said again and again, this is done and made heard – and then the wall is made by the party within the Lord Neugebauer and all the concreteists and blockers, and the voters are shaken! And just as totter They're also the investigative committee. Just as you are tossing the electorate, you are also baffling the committee of inquiry because you are providing us with files with which we can't start anything at all. We can throw them away as they are. We are getting files on which we can't see anything, because three quarters – I think Mr Kogler will still present these files – are blackened, so that you will then decide what we have to read. That would be just as if a financial officer were to come to a company and then the businessman would say: Well, look at this bill. Please don't look at them, and don't look at them! - Just the same thing you do: They say – and you tell us about your ministry – what we have to look at and what we don't like. And I'll tell you: That is what we decide on the Committee's side. We, the Committee, are telling you what we want to see and not vice versa. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] That's what it's supposed to do. And if you're serious about the Enlightenment and if you really think it's honest, so that the guilty ones can make a party – even if perhaps some of them happen to their own, but if you really think it's honest – then send us proper files wherever we can see who's responsible! Then we can also clarify political responsibility, and then you honestly mean it with clarification and with transparency. This courage I wish for, and I hope you have it too.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e11218	Mr Klubobmann's next speech is Dr. Strolz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e11239	Mr President. Estimated government members! Ladies and gentlemen! Estimated citizens on the gallery and on the screens! In this debate, we are negotiating the budgetary perspective by 2019. This is the responsibility of the Minister of Finance, and, Minister of Finance, you have my respect for the fact that you are at least more ambitious than the government parties in the last decades. But you're not ambitious enough, that's quite clear. They themselves say: I'm not satisfied with the budget path. And we can't be happy either. We have made new debts reliably every year for the last 53 years – reliably, every year. Every year we put the young people sitting here, stones in the backpack. This generation that is growing up today is the first generation since the end of World War II, which has the prospect that it will not reach the prosperity of its parents. For the first time since 1945, a generation has grown up that will not reach the prosperity of their parents! We therefore need a course correction, which is determined. [[Abg. Auer: you yourself?]] Jakob Auer, what is happening here, is – and this is a fact – that she has been in this Parliament for 53 years – and you have been in this Parliament for 30 years, I think you have been doing it for 30 years – putting stones in the backpack of these people. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the Stronach team.]] And with this preview we will also put in further stones in the coming years – 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019. Every year, like the last 53 years, we make new debts. But that's not a natural law! Switzerland has achieved surpluses even during the crisis period in recent years. Germany has a balanced budget, now records surpluses, now faces the question: Where do we invest – in debt reduction, in education, in innovation, in research? Don't ask yourself these questions. We're not paying off any debts. You yourself, Mr Minister, have said that we have an expenditure problem, not a revenue problem. In fact, we have: Since 2000, government expenditure has almost doubled! They have grown almost twice as fast as the general price level has increased, namely by 61.9 percent expenditure has grown and by 32.8 percent the price level has increased. Why is that so? – Because SPÖ and ÖVP operate completely insolent client policy, feed their protected areas, do not implement reforms because they are not willing to implement generation-friendly reforms. And why do you feel a little breath coming in now? – Yes, that’s not Their earnings, but the greatest discharge for the budget comes from position R5, and that is with “cash and interest”. They come down at “Cash and Interests” from 6.7 billion in 2014 to 3.8 billion in 2019. This is the only position where you get down to the issues. And why? – Not because you are making reforms, but because we flooded this country and 27 other countries – at least the eurozone – with money to an extent that has never been there. That is, the discharge for the budget is through the ECB's money flow. One thing is clear: In recent years, since 2008, we have bought time to an unprecedented degree through new government debt. And we didn't use this time! And now comes the second phase, where we buy time again through a very expansive monetary policy of the European Central Bank – and we do not use the time again! They know that the day will come when interest will rise. There it will crack in the balk, that we will just put our ears on. Then no cent will remain for any investment in the future. You're saving in education now! I am in favour of structural reforms in education, but we then take this money and invest it in education where we need it – elementary pedagogy, folk school et cetera. But I don't understand that we're tearing out money in these areas. That's why I'm saying you don't use time. The tax reform is also insufficient, because the tax reform will, of course, fuel unemployment, as you know. And that's why you'll have to put 1 billion more for emergency workers and unemployed people next year. You'll have to put another billion on the side. Germany is also on the way. Austria is not following. We're a sign of growth. You will have to add 700 million next year to pension insurance payments, 2.6 billion by 2019. For 300 000 young people – colleges and universities – you spend 3.6 billion per year, and for pensions alone, the growth rate is 2.6 billion by 2019! That is, the relations are not right in the back and in the front. It's not going out for the next generation what you're doing. And you are not prepared to reverse the trend: no pension reform linked to life expectancy, no pension reform with an automaticism – as the SPÖ refuses to do – no administrative reform worthy of this name, no federalism reform. And the bill the young people pay: They will not reach the prosperity of their parents. – This is not a natural law, but it is indebted to the policies of these two government parties. Unfortunately!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e11289	Mr Bundesminister Dr. Schelling spoke. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e11312	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The Council of Ministers decided yesterday on this financial framework. He is already here today for the debate in Parliament. I would like to thank all the previous speakers for the wonderful proposals, even Mr Rossmann – I did not expect you, as a very valued economic researcher, to speak of disillusionment, because you are obviously the only one who is willing to enter a retro-political policy, namely, according to the motto: If you spend more money, it's meaty. – I therefore believe that this is not access. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, Team Stronach and representatives of NEOS.]] Nevertheless, all the previous speakers are right when they point out – and this is quite clear – that we are not talking about a budget here, but about a financial framework that was to be created under extremely difficult conditions. They all mentioned it: Growth, economics, labour market, pensions. Under these conditions within four weeks the 5 billion of the tax reform was also an ambitious goal for our House. We did it. I would like to thank my employees and all the ministries for this good and constructive cooperation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The concrete measures required have been partly discussed in the public. However, it is not the measures that will ultimately be the basis of a budget decision, but rather the task of the Federal Financial Framework providing a ceiling and the individual departments in their responsibilities are now developing the measures, taking them into account in the budget – logically assessed by the Ministry of Finance for their sustainability – and then finally entering the budget. But one thing I can tell you: It is inevitable that we commit ourselves to achieving a structural zero deficit with this federal financial framework over four years. Quite honest: We have also committed ourselves to this, but not because we have the commitments to the Stability Pact, to the Fiscal Pact or also to the EU, but because it is our commitment and responsibility in policy to start a turnaround. I'm not saying she's already been led to it, but that we're starting with it. Mr Lugar, I understand that you were a little confused because you didn't know you were talking. It never seems to be quite clear to you who's at the top and who's not, and who's just talking and who's not. [[Abg. Donate: Haha!]] I would draw your attention – just as a small side-by-side remark – to the fact that the Minister of Finance of the Republic, I am not taking any influence on which files are delivered or on which files are blackened. [[Abg. Lugar: Then it will be time!]] There are the necessary rules of procedure to this end. But if you want to make a responsible policy, get out of here and talk about the budget and not about blackened files! [[Abg. Lugar: I did!]] That's your job you don't see! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kogler: No, this has a connection! That's unacceptable!]] This has no connection at all, Mr Kogler, with the history of the federal financial framework. [[Abg. Kogler: I'll tell you what a connection this has! I'll explain that to you!]] You can sign up for a word and then you can explain it. [[Abg. Kogler: Yes, I do that too! – That’s incredible!]] There is no connection at all with the question of how the federal financial framework is drawn up! [[Abg. Kogler: The whole of the hypo has huddled the financial hustle and bustle for years!]] It has no connection! So, of course, you can say that, that's not a subject at all, but you have to give me the opportunity to replicate it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kogler: The ÖVP praises black files!]] [[Abg. ==References====External links== He does not take himself seriously!]] [[Abg. Kogler: It's enough if the others take me seriously!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I share your opinion, which was expressed in the debates, that the conditions we have are difficult, but that the objective must remain to achieve a genuine zero deficit and not just a structural zero deficit. Then we can also do what many call for, namely to reinvest in the future without making new debts. That must be our stated goal!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e11567	Ladies and gentlemen, can we now again listen to the Minister for Finance?- Oh, my God! I would cordially invite all those who want to get rid of something to be included in the list of speakers. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e11583	Of course, at the end of the day, it will be a matter of pouring this federal financial framework into several budgets. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rossmann.]] I therefore remain with my goal: The aim must be to achieve a real and not just a structural zero deficit. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It must be clear that we are getting away from the high level of indebtedness – by the way, Mr Rossmann, not only because of the crisis, but also because of many other measures that have arisen in the long term – that we are going down this debt to create air for the future of young people – as Mr Strolz says correctly – in order to invest in the future in order to secure prosperity in such a way that our descendants, our children and our grandchildren live in an almost high prosperity as we can enjoy it today. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, you have raised a number of points, and I am pleased about that. One thing should prevail in politics: that it is quite legitimate to say the truth even if it is unpopular. And we have some unpopular truths in the field of promotions and administration, we have unpopular truths in the field of pensions. But precisely this federal government has addressed this issue in the context of the Krems clause, has set clear timetables and said that we are dealing with these issues. They all know that the tax reform was quite clear, because we applied the same model: clear project management, clear timetables. We have delivered and delivered successfully, and we want to do so on the other issues – whether they are pensions, the labour market, promotions, administration or education. I therefore believe that it will be crucial that this federal financial framework will now be offensively taken into account in the first considerations for the budget, that for 2016. I'm going to be 14 years old. This is where the budget speech is and can already promise you today, it will not be a budget of well-being. [[Abg. Rosary: Is this a threat?]] We know that in some areas large volumes are being moved. For example, if you look at the issue of the expected development of the cost of pensions, it becomes clear that it is not about talking about what is happening in the next two, three or five years, but it is our responsibility and obligation to think about whether in 25 and 30 years the pensions are secured. That is why we have succeeded in setting up this project, which we set up on 29 October. It will be possible to find solutions to this problem in February. It is clear that in many other areas these efficiency issues can be answered as well. [[Abg. Mayer: This also applies to education!]] The issue of education has been raised. There are other areas where we have efficiency problems. I am one who says that if we manage to eliminate these inefficiencies, then we do not need new taxes to clean up the state budget, but we can do it by getting better, getting slimmer by doing job reforms by changing processes. It is discussed again and again, for example, about the Austrian Convention. Yeah, I thought this was a great story, there were great suggestions. What's the result? - Zero! What we need to achieve is therefore to get results from the announcement policy. I assume that, because of the fact that we have agreed together, we have to put a cost brake in the administration, all local authorities – federal, state and local authorities – must begin to think about how they change their processes in order to deal with reduced resources accordingly. This is the task we have undertaken for the next few years. At the moment – this is already an important point, and this can be criticized – not at all that is really saved – saving would mean spending 100 € today and tomorrow 99 – but what we have achieved with this federal financial framework is to take a cost-reduction path that inhibits the dynamics of cost development. Why is this so important today? If we were to really cut expenditure, then the problem that Mr Rossmann and others are addressing would be much more intense, namely that we have no opportunities for employment, labour market, growth. [[Abg. Rossmann: Which offensive labour market? What are you talking about? I don't see!]] Whether you see it, Mr Rossmann, is not crucial, but at the end of the day is the question of what resources do we use for what? And here I am at a crucial point: We spend about 1.9 billion on active resources, and, honestly, I am not satisfied with the result. I would like us to use the funds efficiently and thus generate the effect of bringing more people into employment. I think that's the challenge. That is why we have said that we are discussing the issue of labour market and labour market reform. On the contrary, it is not a question of saving funds: It is about channelling the funds in such a way as to achieve the goal of bringing more people into employment – and not achieving the goal of spending more money. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] So that's what I'm talking about, and I'm staying here. We have a problem with spending. And as long as we do not succeed in getting spending under control in such a way that they are in balance with revenue, we will not be able to achieve the goal of future investment. If you listen to the voice of experts also at international level – whether the OECD is the currency fund where I was in Washington, whether this is the WIFO or the IHS – all say, regardless of where they come from: If these reforms are not implemented, Austria, like other countries in Europe, will have a real problem with the presentation in the budgets. Your approach, to say: If it doesn't matter; if we spend more money, then the problem is solved!, is a policy that we have been making for too long now and which has brought us into this situation. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] I therefore regard it as a crucial task for me as Minister of Finance in the context of budgetary policy, that we save intelligently through reforms, that we increase efficiency in all areas, and that we do something that is very unusual in Austria, namely, to evaluate courageously what the measure has taken. If we follow this path, we are on a good and right path. And this is not an empty hope, because if you look at the European situation, you will see that those countries that have taken this step courageously, such as Germany or Sweden, are actually on a better budgetary and growth course than we are. There are also other countries that are much worse. But I want to be in the club of the best and not in the club of the bad. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We will therefore work very concentrated in the various areas and channel the funds where they are necessary. Because of the economic situation, we will spend more money in the next few years and will not save ourselves, as some believe. If you tell me, Mr Rossmann, that I have said that we are saving ourselves, then I have to stop it, only the term “unfugal” is not worthy of you. But I'll take notice of him. Because if you are dealing with the state formation and always criticize yourself that there are inefficiencies and double track, and stress that you want this administrative reform – and I assume you want such an administrative reform – then the logic behind it is that, given that 80 percent of the expenditure in the administration is personnel expenditure, something will logically come into motion there. [[Abg. Rossmann: This is not a reform!]] That's perfectly clear. However, they believe that neither the tax reform nor an administrative reform, where cuts are made, will bring something. This federal financial framework, to name just a few figures, provides for a structural zero deficit over the four years. This will be difficult enough to achieve. And a crucial point is that, as far as the Maastricht deficit is concerned, we are coming down clearly. However, I would also like to point out that despite all the efforts that this Federal Government is now making, in view of the economic development we are currently experiencing, debt will go from just under 86 to just under 80 percent. That's not how many believe, ambitious enough. To achieve this will present us with great challenges. Now, if you ask yourself the question: Which offensive measures are within the federal financial framework? and that has already been put in place, I would also like to pay attention to the following: We have a large package in the security field, in two respects, with reinvestment and with the Federal Ministry of the Interior. We have the big broadband history inside, we have additional funds in the science package inside. In addition, as sad and as dramatic as that is, precisely because of the incidents of the last few days, we must significantly increase the basic provision for the refugees who come to Austria. That is so, and it is our duty that we also confess to it. There is no discussion about this at all. We did this. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the Stronach team.]] What I have to do as Minister of Finance in the creation of the budget and in the measures that come from the departments is to watch that we also achieve the objective. It doesn't make sense if we do something and then say: That's not relevant anyway. This Federal Government has decided, within the framework of the tax reform, to finance it partly from funds obtained under an administrative and support reform. Therefore, I was quite surprised that there is a discussion about the fact that this is taking place. It is quite clear, as I believe, that if these decisions are taken, the Minister for Finance will have to do so. As the lawn mower and foundry can have been spoken before, I can point out, in my view, that these two terms belong to the Museum of Budget Policy. We are not so sowing about it, but we are not actually doing any funding cuts in the areas of the future, such as in the field of science. There is also additional investment in the area of security. In the field of culture and, above all, in the field of labour market, we will be faced with further tasks. However, it will be imperative that we use not only the savings and cost reduction potential in the management cost brakes we define, where we go down from forecasted 2.7 percent to 1.7 percent, but also take account of the fact that we change processes, that we carry out the task reform, and finally we also use modern technology, thus simplifying the administrative processes. This results in a closer-to-citizen and, of course, a slimmer administration. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the question of administrative costs is being discussed again and again. I can only say from my experience: We also used such a path at the health insurance companies in the main association. It worked successfully. Several federal states are already taking this path. We will use this path and thus reach the goal set to us as well. It is also clear that any reform will require additional creativity in the future and that we will not succeed with the methods of the past. A few years ago, “Der Spiegel” was entitled in Germany: “Is Austria the better Germany?” – We have clearly lost this position. But it is up to us now to regain this position. And we have put the first step in the right direction with the questions of the Federal Financial Framework. If you want to succeed, the first step is not a decisive step, but a step in the right direction. And this federal financial framework is going in the right direction. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! In the case of all disputes and differences that exist in the question of how to achieve such a goal, the government and the opposition of one should: Together we bring Austria back to the top, where we belong! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e11715	Ms. State Secretary Mag. Steßl has spoken. - Please, Mrs. State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e11739	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! The 2016 to 2019 financial framework will be used to represent the maximum payment limits of each department. Among other things, this financial framework is also facing two particular challenges. We have decided a tax reform for 6.4 million people who will be relieved of €4.9 billion. Of course, that must also be the place in the federal financial framework. And with this tax reform, we have, in particular, relieved small and medium-sized incomes and also integrated a refund of social security contributions. Experts from Germany, for example, call this reform quite courageous, because we are going a different way in Austria and are also opposed to the tax reform in the currently rather poor economic phase. Mr Rossmann! I would not talk about this having any blatant growth effects, but let's wait, let's also evaluate this tax reform! But I am firmly convinced that people in this country should have more money in the stock exchange, more net of gross. And we will achieve that with this tax reform. And we have also shown that we as the Federal Government are not only talking about this, but also implementing this key project. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is why we have two challenges in the federal financial framework: on the one hand, we can picture the tax reform and, on the other hand, we have the structural zero deficit, with the Federal Government, of course, committed to comply with it. The basis for this long-term budget planning – and we as the Federal Government – is stable finances. The stability of Austria is also reflected in this financial framework. We are currently paying the lowest interest rates. And this is also a policy that we will continue to pursue, namely to maintain stable finances in Austria, so that we cannot be dependent on international financial markets, but can act ourselves and not react like other countries. The next challenge in this whole spectrum is that we need to keep an eye on one thing, even if we are talking about reforms – I will come later on –: that we ensure that we invest intelligently in growth, in education, research and in employment and, on the other hand, that we also maintain our social welfare state. Because, my very dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen, the times are getting more difficult. Unfortunately, economic growth is not as high as it is forecast, and yet we are trying to counter our actions and with our reforms and continue the framework. The Federal Minister has already mentioned it: Austria is driving a different path, not a very strict consolidation, but a so-called growth-saving consolidation. That means that we continue to invest in offensive measures. What are these offensive measures? – Childcare facilities, 24-hour care, expansion of school day care. These are all things that citizens naturally expect to be accentuated. We do not now rely on these offensive measures, but we are still applying additional offensive measures, including in the form of the entire broadband sector. ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... For all colleagues in rural areas, broadband development is an important project, a very crucial project also for the economic development of rural regions, because it is important that companies, if they settle where they are located, naturally also find the appropriate infrastructure and thus provide employment in rural regions. Among other things, in the financial framework you will also find a so-called science package at universities, a security package, but also the 50plus employment package, which is particularly important for older workers in times of rising unemployment. For not only can we talk about pension reforms, but we must also ensure employment for older workers and offer them jobs. This project is of course very important. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If one now looks at the financial framework, where, of course, the tax reform of €4.9 billion is priced, then we all know that there is a reduction in revenue that needs to be compensated for by a corresponding counter-financing. We agreed that we will take action in the fight against fraud. However, we have also decided to write down in the financial framework a so-called cost-damaging path for all departments, together with a reduction in funding. We have not overrun the lawn mower in any way in terms of the reduction of funding, but have, in particular, excluded the sensitive areas of the labour market – which is of course very important in the economically difficult times at present – and the field of research from the reduction of funding. It was clear from the speeches here in the House that it is of course very challenging that we have been awarded €700 million for counter-financing here by the Federal Government, which is to be achieved through administrative reforms, cost reduction measures and support measures. But I am very positive that we will put in place the appropriate measures with discretion and also with the necessary talks until the autumn budget. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, in the last few days and also in today's debate, administrative reform has always been discussed and, of course, measures relating to public service. I can only say one thing because I am also responsible for these areas: I have a very respectful cooperation with the Public Service Union, and this has now been shown when, within the framework of the new innovation on salary reform, which will be sent to the High House, we have developed a viable solution for both staff and the Republic. Other areas of social partnership will, of course, be negotiated. I am firmly convinced that, with respect and, above all, with understanding for both sides, one can create the necessary basis to achieve results together. In various speeches, there was also courage to reform. I am of course excited about how the mood – courage for reform! – will be here in the other ranks if we present these proposals for reforms. Because a project that has not yet been addressed today, but which is an important project, is, for example, the office of the Federal Government. There too, we can act more efficiently in the federal administration. There too, we can pool resources and, above all, we can achieve savings potential in time, of course. This is one of the next projects where we will put forward proposals. Finally, let me say the following: The Federal Financial Framework will also adopt the Staff Framework. We will continue the restrictive personnel path in the Federal Service. That is to say, we are currently occupying only every second planning site which is released as a result of retirement, but of course we are doing so with a great deal of attention. Where personnel are needed, staff are naturally shown in the framework plan, such as police officers, teachers, operational financial management, because we have said in the tax reform that we want to strengthen the fight against fraud. In the sense of the Court of Auditors, which has also proposed this, we will give a large part of the staff to operational financial management. My venerations In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to say that, with the tax reform, which is now shown in the financial framework, we have put in place a very important measure with a view to reducing the tax burden of 6.4 million people living here in Austria, who are working here in Austria and who, of course, also want more net of gross income. On the other hand, we agree that we want to achieve a structural zero deficit in 2016. In this sense, we present an overall package to the House. That is, on the one hand, we lower taxes, we reduce administrative costs, but on the other – and that is the crucial point – we continue to invest and pursue offensive measures. On this occasion, I should also like to thank the Minister for Finance for the good cooperation in the negotiations on the Financial Framework and the Staff Framework Plan, and with you, my dear respect. Ladies and gentlemen, for attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e11843	Mr Krainer has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e11864	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! With this Federal Finance Framework Act, the Federal Government continues its successful budgetary policy in recent years. Since 2008, the Faymann government has been in office, and the budget policy has been on three legs since then, that is to say, saving where it makes sense to become more efficient. This is the first area. The second area is investing in future areas, not only to save deeper and deeper in a crisis, but also to invest out. The third stand, and this has been going on since 2008, is also to change the tax structure, to lower taxes on work and to raise taxes on capital and assets. These are the three key areas of this successful budgetary policy. It is also seen that 2014 has achieved a structural zero deficit and that this policy has continuously improved after the biggest economic crisis in the last 70 years, even though there have been many cliffs on this path. Mr Fekter, who was a Minister of Finance herself, knows what cliffs were found on this path. However, one simply has to say here, yes, this budgetary policy has been successful since 2008. And we can now say that, as far as deficit development and debt ratios are concerned, we have really been very successful in recent years and can therefore go very optimistically into the future. What does this budget actually bring about when it comes to tax structural reform? The policy of recent years has been to taxes on work in Austria in the international Compare far too high to lower. We are taking a really big step by reducing taxes and taxes on work by almost €5 billion. This is a far greater step than all tax reforms over the last 20 years, not only in absolute numbers, but also in relation, because, of course, inflation is the only way to compare absolute figures. That is, taxes and taxes on work are reduced by 5 billion. That's good. That was a call, and I admit, before the last election was only the SPÖ for it, since last year all the parties were already in favour of reducing taxes and taxes on work. We are particularly pleased because we were also the first to take this step very seriously before the election, and we are delighted when this is realized and now we see it in this federal financial framework. This means for smallest pensions 110 € more a year, because the so-called negative tax now also applies to them, which means for Smallest Income 290 € less taxes and taxes per year, and that means for a family with medium income in about 1 400 € to 2 800 € less taxes per year, which is 100 € to 200 € per month, so really a noticeable reduction. On the other hand, there is counter-financing, which also partly affects higher taxes on capital and assets. But it is also true that Austria is final in capital and wealth taxation. It is the right way to raise the very low taxes on capital and assets and to reduce them to work. This has been the right way in recent years and will continue with this tax reform. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The second is investing in the future. Yes, that has been the successful and correct policy in recent years, and it will continue. This means investing in childcare, language support, education, research and development, care, infrastructure, broadband and so on – so also a number of positive effects and investments in the future. This is the second important stand. And the third important stand is saving where it makes sense. It is a daily task of policy to look at daily tasks, especially the executive, namely: What administrative processes do we have, how can we become more efficient, how can we achieve the same performance or even better performance with less use? We now have time to start with a hearing in the Committee on Budgets and then to discuss it in detail here in plenary. At least it's the right way. I can still add two things. One is development cooperation. I believe, if we are all thinking of the minutes of mourning at the beginning of the session, that Parliament has rightly said two years ago that we must not save on development cooperation – on the contrary, we must have increased there. We are all taking this very seriously here in Parliament, and we will also look very closely at the budget in October, so that Parliament's decision and also the promise of the Minister responsible will be kept in brief that it will not be saved in development cooperation. On the contrary: There's clear air up there. And that must also be taken into account. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The last point – which is discussed again and again – is the area of pensions. If we want to secure pensions, there's a lever, and that's employment. Regardless of the system – whether this is the first, second or third pillar – it is to be seen that there is enough employment. I can only secure pensions by employment. As important as the annual figures such as debt ratio and deficit ratio are, more statements on the state, the future capacity and the cohesion of a society are the unemployment rate and, above all, the Youth unemployment rate. It is very important to focus the view of politics in Austria on the fact that we have under control unemployment, especially youth unemployment. At the end, I still have to put on text-image marks. When a colleague talks about the purchase of votes from the Stronach team, it is of course a text-image score, and just as if conservative parties are provoking progressive parties to retropolitics. These are text-image-shavings that we don't need here in the high house.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e11955	Mrs Tamandel's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e11976	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Finance! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen. We do not decide anything here today and we do not debate the 2016 budget here either, but we have a first reading here today or see the first time the financial framework for the years 2016 to 2019 has evolved differently and further. Then: When the government launched the tax reform, it also agreed to keep the financial framework, i.e. the spending limits of the ministries, somewhat the same. Of course, what needs to be taken into account and needed is the tax reform, which is no question at all. But if today we are talking about the tax reform bad or good or very good, we can only say: The tax reform will also be very intensive in this House, but now we should look at the spending limits of the individual departments and how we continue with the reforms. One thing is clear: The tax reform has a volume of over €5 billion, and they have to be brought in somehow. This is not only about a degree of self-financing and economic growth, but also about counter-financing, but also, of course, about measures such as the fight against fraud, which we will decide accordingly in June. But that means: We need reforms! We need reforms in the administration. We also need to make a clear commitment to reforming our tasks. [[Abg. Moser: Yes, please do that!]] We can not only take out individual points and individual raisins in the public service, but never talk about a job reform. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We cannot always talk about the need for federalism reform and then about concrete measures. We need to understand clearly that we need to harmonise the budgetary rights of the countries and communities. [[Abg. Kogler: Eh for ten years! That would be good!]] Thank God the Minister of Finance has already announced that he will push for it in the financial compensatory negotiations. [[Abg. Moser: Why don't we do it?]] [[Abg. Podgorschek: Let's do it!]] We need comparability! We need comparability in debt, in deficits and in distributed areas. This also means that we can use the budget more efficiently in budget implementation. On this occasion, of course, we also need a division of competence between the federal government and countries. We need a clear distribution of competence and not a division, and not always this Rosinspick policy, which I have already spoken about. Unfortunately, God always comes from a corner, namely the woman's Minister of Education: Two more hours of teaching time in the school for teachers. This is the only thing someone thinks if he doesn't want to know much about reforms. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I believe that we should look at this more intensively, and we should deal with efficiency, namely: How can teachers be relieved, how can they be provided with staff so that they no longer have to do administrative work, and how can they be given jobs that everyone in the private sector would also demand from businesses? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Schopf and Mr Moser.]] It must be all countries – just like the Federation! - Join us. I hear administrative reform and then always: Well, the officials, we're an official state! – The officials and women also retire at the age of 65, and the city of Vienna has not yet implemented the pension reform in an adequate way. [[Abg. Moser: That's right!]] [[Abg. Schieder: Graz too! Call the mayor of Graz!]] This is not at all understandable, because it is just here that there would be enough savings potential. In my opinion, this should also be taken very clearly into account in the financial compensation process. By the way – my clubman, Mr. Lopatka, said it – Mr. Mayor Häupl is supposed to implement the pension reform. I can only say: Mr. Mayor Häupl has been in the weekend since yesterday afternoon, while the teachers are still available to the students. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Podgorica]] In this sense, we may have to send this to him by letter, because in the weekend he may not have heard it.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e12140	Next, Mr. Dr. Fuchs. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e12161	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Values Advisors! Mrs State Secretary, as you are implementing the Government's ‘More Money in the Stock Exchange’ key project, I am going to tell you now, not at all. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[State Secretary Steßl: Whoa!]] - Watch out! The Federal Government has announced it a lot: Pensioners who do not pay a wage tax are also expected to receive a refund of the social security contributions in the form of the negative tax amounting to € 110 per year in the future. However, the Federal Government has kept to the minimum pensioners an insignificant detail: The smallest pensioners, the approximately 230 000 members of a minimum pension, will look through their fingers and not receive the € 110, which the Federal Government has promised you. [[Abg. New builder: This is a scandal!]] These are compensation recipients with a monthly income of around 872 € for single and around 1 308 € for couples. Despite large-scale announcements, a monthly discharge of around €9 is suddenly no longer possible for this group of persons. The Ministry of Social Affairs also has a statement of reasons: The minimum pensioners benefit anyway from exceptions such as the exemption of prescription fees. – This is an increase of the minimum pensioners! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The failure of the tax credit for the minimum pensioners is unfair and discriminatory for two reasons: First of all, the weakest among pensioners, namely the compensaters, are affected, and second, the women are mainly affected. I find this very unfortunate, and I can refer to page 50 of the 2016 - 2019 Strategy Report in this context. I quote: "As evidenced by numerous studies, there is an income shear in Austria compared to the salaries between wife and husband. This development is intended to be countered in the sense of actual equality between women and men.” – Quotes. I would like to ask myself why the tax credit for minimum pensioners is deleted, when the main concern is women, and this further increases income scarcity between women and men. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We liberals understand something else by social justice, so we also demand this 110 € tax credit for the micro-pensionists. On page 5 of the Strategy Report, it states: “In 2016, tax reform will lead to palpable tax reliefs for workers, entrepreneurs, farmers and pensioners. - Quote. That this is not true for the minimum pensioners I have just carried out, but this statement is generally not true. In fact, taxpayers have paid too much wage or income tax in the past and are now generously getting back some of the too much paid taxes. The cold progression is nothing but a advance payment on the next tax reform. The state is almost getting a senseless credit from its citizens, and the Federal Government is selling us this partial refund of too much taxes as a discharge. However, the cold progression must be stopped immediately, so we call for a regular adjustment of tariff levels to inflation. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In addition to this zero-sum game due to the cold progression, there is also a large number of tax increases, and not only for small and medium-sized enterprises, namely: To extend the depreciation period for buildings, increase in capital income tax, abolish the education allowance and the education premium, introduce a hidden inheritance and gift tax, increase in operating expenses, increase in the maximum contribution base in social security, increase in real estate income tax, introduce further tax increases in the real estate sector, increase in car-related relations, abolish pot special expenditure, increase in turnover tax in certain areas and so on and so on. This is what the Federal Government then calls in the strategy report – I quote again – palpable tax relief for workers, entrepreneurs, farmers and pensioners. Summa summarum This tax reform is not a burden on the economy and citizens, but a burden on them!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e12251	Next, Mr Magistrate. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e12273	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The federal financial framework – a wise invention with spending limits, long-term planning, joint reform in the house – has always occupied us in the past insofar as in practice he has never yielded the correctness that he should actually offer. In particular, the bank representations were to blame. We remember that 133 million were planned. Only for the number-legasthenics – that has its own name, which I do not know again – would there have been the ten- to thousand-fold to be adjusted over many years. This is deliberately avoided. [[Abg. Fekter: That's not true! The Court of Auditors has blessed this!]] – It is probably not a good idea, Mrs Fekter, if only now You're intervening. At any rate, we have a very close link between the federal financial framework and the inconvenient development of the Austrian banks, in particular the Hypo Alpe-Adria. [[Abg. Fekter: The diplomas have fit! The Court of Auditors has confirmed this.]] After all, this financial framework has reflected this whole body-skin, which was operated here, by recruiting only one hundredth of the amount that would have been to be used. [[Abg. Fekter: That's not true! That is what the Court of Auditors has rejected.]] – Look, you've been running the largest morgue in this Republic at the time, a single dark chamber, and Parliament will no longer be allowed to do so. [[Abg. Fekter: That's not true!]] You'll hear it soon! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The point is, of course, that all this banking development will continue to be crucial. This also has to do with the ongoing investigations that we have jointly decided here – at least sufficiently many parts of the opposition – with the joint evidence decision. And with the evidence, it happens. But why is this connection so important? – The faster, the more transparent we can study, the more larger and faster and more effective the prophylactic effect is for other banks. We know where it's still happening everywhere. This will greatly influence the budget figures of the future. We need to promote in this investigation committee how investors who are now working for our money – thank God by a wise act of the Federal Minister, namely the stop of payment, interrupted – have acted in the years 2004, 2005, 2006 and 2007. As expected, they are fighting the stop of payment. The more we can explain that these investors are not in the form at all safe, because at that time it was already apparent that the Balkan mafia has already moved over the credit tranches at the zigmillion height, the lower the political-moral pressure – legally it is something else – and they can't just pick up the tax money now. You know, Minister of Finance, that you have our explicit support. This Committee of Inquiry can also contribute a lot to this, and we have seen a lot already. That's what we're going to do, and I can't do that here, but I can tell you, it's even worse than I believed. All of this can help to improve the Austrian position – by the way, even the story that we have already shown how Bavarian bank managers reflect hundreds of millions of euros in profits, even though there were hundreds of millions of losses. This has even been reported by the Commissioner to the Supervisory Board, which in her total failure then plausilizes the hundreds of millions of profits and not loss. So we can already see how Bavarian bank managers develop a plan of action to open up, crack the Austrian tax vaults. And instead of writing the hypo sick, it was still disused by the bank of notes by deliberately going on the glue to this whole fraudulent loot. The first billion has flown. [[Abg. Fekter: That's not true!]] And the more we discover it, the safer will be to pay less in the future. That's the connection. [[Congratulation with the Greens as well as with representatives of the FPÖ.]] However, it will be necessary for the Committee to be able to work properly. He can't! We first made a wonderful reform – a compromise, we did not agree with everything, but we agreed to a good reform – which should have led to a good work. I'll tell you one thing: We do not let certain posts in the government, the National Bank, the FMA, and so on, and so on, as this reform is now being re-started. The honourable Members, especially the negotiators, I would like to expressly take this opportunity to say: Otto Pendl, Andi Schieder, Peter Pilz, Dieter Brosz, Reini Lopatka – good thing. And now we have experienced how the thing is torpeded from the front to the back: First of all, the list of witnesses is secret, then there is a general template of files with higher classification levels, i.e. a secret service agent without plausible reasoning; and that goes on. The best piece, of course, is the blackmail – everyone understands that. And unfortunately we have to come to your house, Mr Federal Minister, because it is a very bad tradition of black finance ministers to weaken the files. Black Minister, black files! [[Abg. Pirklhuber: (in the direction of Federal Minister Schelling) Stop!]] That's obviously also the reason why black is your party color – I can't explain it differently –: the party color of transparency! You'll have to explain this now, Minister of State. There's nothing to help you. There is nothing to help you, because it turns out that the Ministry of Finance is moving forward in particular in the case of blackmailing. Let me show you one example and also that this has to do with the subject-matter of the investigation. Here we see how the state commissioners are ordered at the Hypo Alpe-Adria; black is stretched out, as at the same time the trustees of the Hypo Alpe-Adria are ordered. [[The speaker holds a page with blackened passages in height]] Do they have anything to do with this thing? That's nonsense what your officials are doing! – But it will be even better. Here is an act of the Ministry of Finance – one can show it here because it is so black. [[The speaker again shows a page with blackened passages]] [[Abg. Pirklhuber: There is no such thing!]] This is classified as “confidential”, but it is now grudging to me, you can’t read anything anyway. In fact, there is one chancellor after another, such as bank management with FIMBAG, which is supposed to manage our state capital faithfully, a management discussion. This is God's thanks and has been recorded. This is about core capital and own resources. This is about results and risk precautions and, more nicely, risk-enhancing circumstances. Is the subject matter of investigation or not, I ask you? The European Commission has long been on the verge of turning the bank off – quite rightly. However, under the influence of the other banks, the infidels have resisted so that Austria does not exist as if it had a broken bank, although it was the most broken far and wide! There we can see – that happened after the nationalization – how management, supervision and politics played together to continue writing a body healthy. And that's what you've blackmailed here! Do you know why I can tell you that? – Because the same FIMBAG, which led the management interview, sent us the same act publicly, so not publicly, even confidentially. I can read this here: what your officials have blackmailed! [[the speaker holds some sides of an expression in height]] I'll tell you: That's really a scandal! I've been using this term more rarely lately, but that's really a scandal. That's not how it is! [[Congratulations with Greens, FPÖ, Team Stronach and NEOS.]] That is why we will no longer allow this black relapse. Like grass, like Molterer's. It's always going on right away. Or of whom do you want to explain that it was him? - They were always in debt, the arsonists. [[pointing towards FPÖ]] The shark has blackened the files – I am still waiting for this answer! [[Cheerfulness with Greens, FPÖ, Team Stronach and NEOS.]] – It was your officials, Mr. Federal Minister! It doesn't help you if you claim you've made this point-free. They must give an indication that they are doing the right thing – as is the case with the Minister of Justice. [[Congratulations with Greens, FPÖ, Team Stronach and NEOS.]] The men's section heads are behind it – among other things, the head of the section, who was extrapolated by Mrs. Federal Minister Fekter before she left, into the relevant section and which she originally took away from the Ministry of the Interior. These officials are leading the regime here! We will all have these displayed individually in the Committee of Inquiry. Under duty of truth and in public, they will have to say why they are doing illegal blackmail, although Andi Schieder has declared in the reform: No more black files! We've all heard it: Here he said it – and now that. [[The speaker points to the square behind the speaker’s seat]] But we have hope. There is also another color that holds the hope...
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e12476	Mr President, you know that you are not acting in a business order. This is not the item on the agenda!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e12494	That's not right at all! This is precisely the item on the agenda, because the clarification of transactions with this bank in the next few years should lead to the fact that our banks do not have to put up with our tax money again as quickly as possible – that is the whole subject of investigation! [[Congratulations with Greens and Team Stronach]] What do you think? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hammer.]] Finally, I can tell you that everything will get better! Why? – Those who do not share in this need to sit down, as before in the Committee of Inquiry. That is why until today, 5.30 p.m. – there is the group leader's meeting – the following call to you, Minister of the Federal Republic of Germany – the requests I am now making are agreed with the Liberal Group, the Stronach and the NEOS Group: We'll load all the officials involved. If this impotence, by tomorrow at 5.30 p.m. – this is an ultimatum, if you like – is not abandoned and everything blackened legal form is delivered unblackened, then you will also have to declare in this committee, because you do not have to give any instructions, but a warning that your team behaves in accordance with law. We're not going to let that go, just like that! By the way: The “little” official below has been assigned to submit the files. We've already been researching how your ministry is going! Make You are there, because it is against every spirit of reform, as you have done. [[Congratulations with Greens, FPÖ, Team Stronach and NEOS.]] I am personally sorry for the fact that I appreciate your work in a lot of points. That's why it wouldn't be good if you had a black point. The new “Django” effect in the ÖVP is also fun to imagine. Is that the new ÖVP layout? – That’s retro, worse than ever before. Mr Mitterlehner can therefore immediately write in the preamble of your new party program, 100 times: I can't blackmail the files. - That would be a proposal. You can even push it through 99 black times, then it's still there once! [[Cheerfulness and applause with Greens, FPÖ, Team Stronach and NEOS.]] [[Abg. Neubauer: As a party program!]] I'll invite you to: Come to reason, just like the Members here – including the representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ. We're already on the way to improvement, but don't mess up the investigation by the government now! They are the ones being examined. You can't interfere in the way we investigate and blacken the whole thing, nor with this stupid reference to banking secrecy – as your section heads argue. I'm so stupid! One hour ago, we received the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service that banking secrecy is expressly not recorded and must not be blackened. That's why we have the levels of secrecy! I can assure you that at the same time there are a lot of files from the Ministry of Finance that also concern banking secrecy that are not blackened. So make yourself a good rule! [[Abg. Eßl:... Federal Financial Framework Act?- Oh, my God!]] Do the right thing! You have time until tomorrow evening, otherwise we'll see you in the investigation committee.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e12605	The next item is the report by Mr Vetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e12626	Mr President. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! I come back to the Federal Financial Framework Act 2016 to 2019 in full awareness that it is a slightly more brittle matter than that of which we have just heard. It's sprinkling because essentially it's just a linear continuation of what we've seen so far. I also have some understanding of the fact that figures are actually being rewritten, because if reforms you might wish were really inside this financial framework, I can hardly imagine that this would have been achieved by the Council of Ministers yesterday. It probably wouldn't have been possible. Having such a federal financial framework law is particularly important for planning and stability, because the Minister of Finance is of course perfectly right that we need stable finances, even in order to be politically independent. I do not wish that at some point there is a Federal Chancellor who, like the Greek Prime Minister, have to go to Moscow or knock on the Chinese to get some money. Political independence and financial stability belong together. It is discouraging that despite the low energy costs, despite the very low interest rates and the ECB's money flood, growth remains so low. Even if you have forecasts of 2 percent, this is not really a good prospect in the external conditions that exist at present. Interestingly, the reforms have been addressed outside of this law. While two representatives of the SPÖ – the Klubobmann and the State Secretary – have, of course, once again put the issue in the foreground, two representatives of the ÖVP, namely the Minister and the Klubobmann, have mentioned the reforms, which is in fact entirely correct. We need a change in reform, the reform stand needs to be resolved, we simply need a lot of movement. It was also interesting to see the clap behavior: The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats was the only one who complained about the reforms that have been put into space here. The issues that Mr Klubobmann has addressed, for example, were particularly interesting. If you've listened to me like this: Pensions – quite right, you have to do something about pensions when people get older. In addition to the retirement age, the Austrian Federal Railways have also been treated as a problem, and besides him, Mrs. Tamandl, he has mentioned the problem of Vienna, where one has one's own, in order to say so, pension culture. These are very important issues on which one can see where the tension lines between the government parties are obviously going. A federal financial framework law is passed and is then decided in the debate on what one really wanted. That we need reforms, as you have said, is absolutely right. I also believe that it is necessary to do so through a significant tax reform. We of the Stronach team have already said several times that we want a much, much more significant tax reduction that we are not satisfied with the 5 billion at Weitem. You have also seen that the reactions of the public were relatively similar. If you want to create a new financial climate, you have to reduce the tax rates. We would have gone down from the input tax rate to the peak rate. I say again and again – the moderate social democracy is at home at the ÖVP –: It's not about the government having more money if you save, but that people stay more money! That's the important thing about saving. [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Stroll.]] If I can formulate it a little lyrically and against the background of a metamorphosis of a young Marxist to the neocapitalist: Down taxes makes citizens mint. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e12691	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e12712	Mr President. Estimated government members! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen on the full visitor gallery and in front of the screens! The Federal Financial Framework Act, which should apply for 2015 to 2018, is therefore already obsolete and must be corrected. and the direction in which it is corrected is clear. The direction is determined by the refusal of reform of this government. One has to push up the expenditure limits especially in the case of the large fractions of the labour market and pensions, and in other areas, for example in the family, one has to suppress the expenditure. This is not exactly a sign of successful policy. Mr Tamandl said: We need reforms. I'm not saying for the first time at this point: After 28 years of government participation of the ÖVP, the call for reforms is unbelievable. She also says – unfortunately not in the room now – that the Minister of Finance is negotiating uniform accounting rules with the countries. We both have already discussed this at this point: This does not require the consent of the countries; these uniform rules can be adopted by the Minister of Finance by means of a regulation; he needs the signature of the President of the Court of Auditors. If you're waiting for chiefs and prölls to say: Look at the books, give me uniform accounting rules, which are then understandable to everyone!, I am convinced that you can wait a long time. The nine princes will not be offered voluntarily to look into the books. That is why it is not useful to negotiate this regulation, you simply have to adopt it once. The topic of pensions: In 2016, there will be an extra-tourist increase in the maximum contribution base. In other words, there will be additional revenue in pension insurance, that is, more than €100 million extra, and you still have to correct up your expenditure planning, namely by a further 250 million only for 2016. They come from grants for the ASVG-pension system to a development of 18 percent in three years. This broking has the greatest dynamics in the entire budget. If you do not make effective reforms, this will continue at this rate. We all know what to do: an earlier adjustment of the age of women's retirement, a link between the retirement age and life expectancy and a further restriction of early retirement. This has been reoriented by the EU Commission in its country-specific recommendations of the Republic of Austria just in February. There, she writes, “that the pension reforms adopted so far will not be reflected in significant savings. Although it is too early to assess the actual budgetary impact of these reforms, it is unclear what savings can be achieved on their basis, in particular in comparison to ex-ante government estimates." What the government reports in Brussels, and what actually happens in the budget implementation, is far apart. For example, a savings volume of € 420 million in the pension area was reported in Brussels for 2015, but at the end of the day there will be only about 60 million. That means that numbers are systematically beautified. The EU Commission then writes: ‘The reasons for this apparently revision of the estimates are unclear, especially because they do not seem to be in line with the good progress made in increasing the actual retirement age; this raises questions as to the reliability of the ex ante estimate of the savings potential of these reforms.’ The only reform that the government has agreed on in its current paper is the “implementation of a deepening gender analysis” on the issue of low female pensions. ‘The data collected by sex shall be prepared in such a way as to enable targeted measures to be taken to reduce gender disparities.’ To say why the women have less pension than the men, I don't need a study. If you send women to retirement earlier and you steal the best years of work at the end of your career, in which you can make career jumps in which you earn well, then you must not be surprised if the women have less retirement. If you design a negative tax that leads you to stay at home and work less, cash negative taxes instead of working more and paying wage tax, you must not be surprised when the women end up having less pension. You're lying to yourself in the bag. There is nothing left of the willingness to reform. They are beautiful words that I hear, especially from the ÖVP side, but now I would finally wish for actions. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e12791	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. According to § 69 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure, I shall assign the draft budget to the Committee on Budgets 583. [[12:37:53]] 2. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government template (293 D.B._Other Organiser Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Federal Republic of Germany on cooperation in the field of passports (493) 3rd. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government template (310 e.g._Other Organiser Treaty on the Fourth Amendment to the Treaty establishing and operating the International Centre for Migration Policy Development (ICMPD) in Vienna on the introduction of an internal tax system (494 d.a.) 4. Point Report of the Foreign Policy Committee on the Government Template (373 e.g._Other Organiser Declaration by the Republic Austria on the opposition to the accession of the Republic of Burundi to the Convention on the Liberation of Foreign Public Documents of Certification (495 d.a.) 5. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government template (489 e.g._Other Organiser Declaration on the withdrawal of the Austrian reservation on Art. 11 of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination of Women with regard to the Special Protection of Women's Workers (496 D.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e12865	We now come to points 2 to 5 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Hübner was the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e12892	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen in the gallery and down in the hall! Dear Minister Kurz! Today I will deal with the International Centre for Immigration Policy Development, no: Migration Policy Development. [[Abg. Glavisch-Piesczek: Migration!]] I believe that this is a good follow-up to what your club and party colleagues in particular said on the previous item on the agenda of the Federal Financial Framework Act – with regard to the efficiency, the need to critically question these expenditures, also with regard to tax justice and transparency. First of all, go to the Centre: This has been – for those who do not know – since 1993, and it was originally a Swiss-Austrian initiative, which of course has found several imitators or acceding countries. Meanwhile, 15 countries are involved, mainly EU countries from the East and three or four non-EU countries from the Western Balkans: Macedonia, Bosnia and Serbia; that is what I believe. The interesting thing about this centre is that you can see one thing: You can't say if it's done less or more than the King Abdullah Centre. I have tried to look through the Internet publications to this center a little bit with regard to input and output – the result is null. This may also be shared by EU agencies such as the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights, which is based in Austria. It does not want to do anything but make papers, investigate, contact, advise, give advice and create studies. This has done the same. Of course, the budget is rising rapidly: In 2000, it was about €12 million, now it is almost €20 million in five years, which is a very nice increase. The interesting thing is that it is an international organisation under the Vienna Agreement. In other words, the people who sit inside - essentially EU citizens - do not pay taxes, nor VAT, nor, of course, insurance contributions. The Centre, as well as the King Abdullah Centre, is freed from our administrative regulations; it would not even have to comply with the monument protection. These are things that are not actually compatible with what we hear here about tax justice and what we think of transparency and efficiency. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The purpose of this proposal, this Treaty, is to authorise them to adopt a tax system which they introduced internally many years ago – well over 15 years ago. This means that employees pay a flat rate tax rate of 25 percent. This is not bad, after the planned tax reform, this is our tax rate. However, these 25 percent do not benefit the country whose infrastructure the employees use, namely Austria, but they are used internally to provide social services to employees. So this is an employee holiday or social insurance fund. This has nothing to do with a tax system or an internal tax system. This is nothing but a compulsory contribution to internal social programmes. When I see what problems we have in the area of migration, what is going on, what costs and future problems arise, it is almost cynical to simply work out such things and say: Yeah, let's do it, all right! – I miss – and I have already mentioned this several times – an initiative by the Austrian Government and the Foreign Minister Kurz to stop these privileges abuses at least within the EU! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It must be possible for the Member States of the European Union to refrain from these privileges, for which the Vienna Agreement must not be amended. Thus, in no way do you endanger the location Austria as an international conference and organisation location, there is only one profit maker: Austria. This is precisely because Austria is such a strong location for international organisations, we should have every interest in the fact that at least EU citizens and employees of these organisations are paying taxes properly in Austria. That must be the government's concern! We don't want to and we don't want to have something else every time – the location and the international – and we don't want it, that can't be it. That is why we will clearly reject this, and we encourage ourselves – instead of promoting such things instead of pulverizing money – to consider what we really do with the migration flows. It cannot be what I see on this item of the agenda, especially by the colleagues from SPÖ and Greens, what I see on this point of view. The only thing to do is to look at once where there are successful programmes to deal with migration flows and to avoid sea disasters. Let us take a look at the example of Australia. Australia has solved the problem by simply saying: With us, no one can immigrate illegally with the title of asylum. Anyone who comes will be sent back! Australia has a contract with Nauru and Papua New Guinea. Whoever is really needy can go there and assert his asylum rights – whoever does not want to, he will be sent back. In 2013, there were 20,000 boat refugees in Australia, hundreds of dead on their way to Australia, sunken boats and pirate raids on the refugees. In the years 2014 and 2015 there was zero – nobody arrives. The fact that the number of asylum seekers has, of course, been reduced by 85 percent, because asylum applications have to be made in Papua New Guinea and Nauru is a second chapter. To consider what to think, to see how to deal with the problem is rejected. Instead, the distribution of refugees to all European countries and similar things that are nothing but an invitation to the tractors, illegal people to Austria, Sweden, Switzerland or elsewhere, and to promise them a permanent stay via illegal means. We are thus guilty of the tragedies that occur in the Mediterranean. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e12960	The next item is the speech by Mrs Dr.ck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e12983	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. The agreement signed at ministerial level in June last year between Austria and Germany on cooperation in the field of passports provides essential relief for our 240 000 Austrians in Germany and for the 165 000 Germans living in Austria. About 7 000 applications are made annually for an Austrian passport to be issued in Germany. Citizens must submit these applications to the Embassy or to the General Consulate in Munich in Berlin. Because of the identification and the recording of biometric characteristics, a personal appearance is necessary, which is often associated with long distances. Now the issue of a passport is made possible by selected local passport authorities of the other party. As a former Auslandsösterreicher – even before Austria’s accession to the EU – I appreciate this service idea of Austrian consularism. Thank you very much, Minister Kurz, for your extremely citizen-friendly way of working!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e13018	The next item is Mrs Klubobfrau Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e13039	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. At the beginning, I would like to refer to an item on the agenda which Mr Hübner from FPÖ has also referred to, namely the Government document: Treaty on the Fourth Amendment to the Treaty establishing and operating the International Centre for Migration Policy Development. I would like to ask you to look at the issues that are being developed there: long-term strategies in the field of migration problems, coordination of foreign, asylum and refugee policies. I think that should be very interesting in days like this all here in the National Council. Since the beginning of the Syria War, about 11 million people have fled, half of them being children. Lebanon is about the size of Upper Austria, and at this time it has absorbed 1.2 million people. Jordan – a little bigger, about the size of Austria – has received 626 000 people, five times as much as the entire European Union. Last year, the European Union as a whole has provided 130 000 refugees with protection, but in recent months we have had a discussion about a refugee emergency in Austria. ==References====External links== Return of the fall of the Berlin Wall celebrated, and the German Chancellor Merkel said the following at the celebration in Berlin: “The fall of the wall has shown us: Dreams can come true. () We can turn things to the good, that is the message of the fall of the wall." This was particularly true in these days for other regions of the world, where freedom and human rights are “threated or trampled on”. Unfortunately, when we look at the real situation, we can only see a fact that Europe is in the process of destroying all these dreams and raising the walls at the external borders. We all heard the message on Sunday morning: 800 people drowned in the Mediterranean. - 800 people! All this after we knew that in the autumn of 2014, Operation Mare Nostrum – operated jointly by Italy and Malta and visited and helped refugees who were in distress in the sea – went far into the waters, 160 nautical miles away, from the Italian coast to the Libyan waters – was stopped for cost reasons. It cost €9 million per month. Last year, despite this action, we had almost 3,000 deaths in the Mediterranean, and this year it will be until 19. On April 1,600 people drowned or frozen. This policy of refugee defence, which we have observed and which we have also very criticised, I think, has found a new starting point this weekend. Many Austrian politicians have shown their participation in Minorite Square, and the Austrian President has also said that this policy must be changed and ended. It is also your job, Mr Kurz, not only to show concern in these areas, but to actually commit acts. In the last few years, Austria has actually been awarded very much support for this policy on refugees, particularly at European level. Austria was always involved when it came to Frontex and its strengthening. The Frontex is now the organization that operates in the Mediterranean patrol – but not to safeguard people and refugee boats in distress, but to safeguard the borders. She no longer drives 140 miles, but only 30 miles. That is, if a family from an area controlled by the IS has managed to get into a boat through very dangerous ways and have searched and found the way across the Mediterranean Sea, then the chance is that this family will drown in front of our walls that have raised Europe. That is, I say openly, no longer tolerable, for all of us no longer tolerable! [[I should like to congratulate the Greens and Members of the NEOS.]] Konstantin Wecker described the following in a song: “The human dignity, it was said, would be untouchable, now it is subject to a reservation of funding”. – Then we will discuss what is always proposed, namely the so-called costs – the costs of Mare Nostrum. We want Mare Nostrum II, and anyone who does not want to, can only be included in the ranks of those responsible for drowning more people in the Mediterranean. I say it clearly: Every argument that is an invitation to the tractors is cynical. My opposite question: Should we keep drowning people? – I think the answer to this cannot be difficult for anyone here in the National Council. We want a different refugee policy in Europe and we want to end this decommissioning. There is no legal possibility of entry – you know, Mr. Federal Minister, and you also know that many organizations and many people in Austria have now put themselves behind an important petition, which is precisely about revitalizing Mare Nostrum II as a maritime emergency action and as a European project. I discussed it with Jean-Claude Juncker yesterday, too, he sees it as a need to support and re-establish a European maritime emergency programme Mare Nostrum II. - That's about days. I appeal to you and ask you to actually initiate and propose this in the next few days with all the possibilities – including at the Special Summit. Only the funds that Frontex consumes each month with Triton and Poseidon, the two border security projects of Frontex, amount to €3.2 million. You want to double this now to secure the borders. I think we should at least take the funds in place to protect human lives and not borders. Many people are frozen in the Mediterranean despite distress calls – you have to imagine that! Europe has made a great promise with the title of asylum law. The right of asylum – that is always called by everyone – is a sacred right, a fundamental right, we say. But Europe is doing everything to prevent people from doing just this right. There is no way to enter Europe legally, except perhaps to fall from heaven in Austria. It can't be! Further decommissioning is not a policy that Europe as a region of human rights and fundamental rights can call for. Austria still has particular problems regarding humanitarian aid abroad. You know that, Minister of State. As far as the funds for development cooperation are concerned, we are unfortunately a disgraceful country. We are really at the final stage, especially as regards development cooperation. It can't stay like that. They have, together with the Minister for the Interior, put forward a proposal, namely the so-called reception camps in North Africa. I would like to ask a few very critical questions. I really want to ask you: Where? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nice.]] In Libya there is chaos, chaos and civil war. There people are not in safety, there people are beheaded. From Somalia to Sudan, down all south, de facto war reigns. There is a brutal military regime in Egypt. Tunisia is currently dealing with its own reforms, it is about stability and must deal with hundreds of thousands of refugees from Libya. In Jordan, Lebanon and Turkey, there are already millions of refugees. I don't know how to get to the idea – with these states in this state – to relocate what our responsibility would be. It would be our responsibility to have an open door for refugees to examine their asylum applications and, if they have a refugee reason, to give them a welcome and a chance to live a new life. [[Abg. Heinzl: Proposal!]] The refugee camps in North Africa are chronically crowded, you know. The proposal that UNHCR should now, as it were, be placed on the camp, which will then be guarded so that no one is passing over the Mediterranean, cannot be the final conclusion of wisdom. If you say "proposal", then I'll just say one thing: In this situation, there is only one proposal, which means: Saving people – children, women and men. That means that Mare Nostrum II will immediately use it and make the money available for it. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Scherak.]] If you subtract Frontex, we may be talking about 80 million, 90 million or 100 million euros for 28 EU countries. I'll tell you: That's really it. I don't want it anymore, and nobody wants this inconceivable cynical misery to win, that they say they can't save these people. It really can't be! Mr Foreign Minister, I appeal to you and I really expect you to have a act of solidarity with all the victims who have already given it. Make an effort to put Mare Nostrum II back into operation immediately!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e13116	Next come Mr. Klubobmann Mag. Arbitrators to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e13137	Mr President. Foreign Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My colleague Glawischnig has just addressed the subject on the current occasion, which has occupied us the last days – if we are honest, not only the last days, but of course for months, but only the last days – in this conglomeration, that of ongoing ships – ships? Boats! – in the Mediterranean, packed with hopeless people, familiar and in distress, people drown to hundreds or, in the better case, rescue. The question of how Europe is dealing with this shame, how to react to it, has also been shown today in the early minutes of the commemoration, almost through the commemoration, but also two days ago in the spontaneous rally of civil society, the NGOs entrusted with refugee care, and the various associations, from the Red Cross to the Caritas. Of course, many things have also been discussed there with harsh and controversial words. But if one is looking for the core, then the core of this question and the search for an answer is that Europe must find an answer to the question of how to deal with it together, without moving that question back and forth as a burden, in order to avoid the idea of human rights, which has grown in Europe as an answer to the many devastating wars. In cooperation with Mr Lopatka, I have drawn up a request for our two political groups. It is also intended to express what has, in part, been addressed in your speech and, in part, the request submitted by the colleagues of NEOS. From our point of view, the proposal seeks to define the debate on the summit, which will take place tomorrow and which has been invited out of the way, namely the strengthening of joint operations in the Mediterranean by increasing the financial and operational resources and whether the mandates for Frontex and the like should not also be extended to save and protect people. We have listed here a lot of points that we want to conclude. I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is precisely what we are proposing, which will be discussed with the EU-28 tomorrow, including the European Commission and Europe. It is a matter for the Commission and the Council to take action That would also be what we in our group and what we discussed with our colleagues in the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, namely, that humanity must be at the forefront here, and at the same time become aware of and accept Europe as a whole financially, but also resourcefully, of this problem.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e13206	Mr. Klubobmann Mag. The motion for a resolution, which has just been tabled, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e13299	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Vavrik. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e13320	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Dear citizens on the crowd and in front of the TVs! We learned a few days ago about this accident, this ship accident with 900 dead. We are already so saturated by these messages, we sometimes do not know correctly: 900 or 90? A few days before we heard 400 – or 40? [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] I would like to present this a little perspective: We are currently a maximum of 150 people in this area, the National Council delegates, the audiences. That's like we'd all drown in minutes. The seats are empty, they are re-occupied, they are emptied a second time, all drowned a second time; a third time all the seats are re-occupied again, those who are above, those who sit behind me, Mr. Federal Minister, also you, all drown – and then another fourth time. – That is the extent of this human tragedy. We have to imagine that! And as far as I'm most concerned, We're guilty! We are collectively guilty of this disaster – by failing. I do not need to try the Catholic mea culpa, even in the Austrian legal order there is the criminal record of the omission of assistance. Now this tragedy has led to a certain awakening. There was a crisis meeting of foreign and internal ministers on Monday. Tomorrow we have a special meeting of the Heads of Government. A 10-point plan has been created: Among other things, Mr Glavischnig's comments will increase Triton again, and there will be more ships, more money, perhaps another area of use. That's nice. I can only hope that it will not come back to a political activism and that this rhythmical rhythm will be flattered again. I can remind you: In October 2013, when the Lampedusa accident occurred, the then Italian Prime Minister also stood in front of the Särgen in Lampedusa, saying: Never again! – And where do we stand two years later? No more talk about “Never again! ” It has become even worse! I am not going to present a long list of the measures that we consider to be good or bad, because I believe that you and your colleagues in the other EU Member States, including the Ministers of the Interior and the various authorities involved, are basically aware of what to do. It's complex. It is a series of measures of a short-term, medium-term and long-term nature that must be carried out in cooperation with other countries. No country can face these challenges alone. That's why I'm going to give up, because I'm not going to be able to figure it out better. But I want to use this opportunity to make a call, an appeal for action, an appeal for action. If you, Mr Federal Minister, mean, okay, a recast of the Mare Nostrum programme – as the colleague has suggested – is the right thing, then we do it! And then we'll do it right away! Perhaps we need unconventional measures, perhaps it's best if you call your colleagues in Italy tomorrow and say: Okay, we paid €900,000 to ensure the share of Austria in the restoration of Mare Nostrum II, and I will transfer it every month until the correct, bureaucratic position is established! so that Italy, who has this experience, is able to increase immediately. - Maybe that's a solution. Or: If the fight against towing is part of the remedy, then we do it! Then we immediately use the authorities that have been ordered to do so – with Frontex, Eurojust, Europol – and we set signs, we put actions! If you think, momentarily, there is a need for an agreed EU-Asyl and refugee policy, then we are finally creating common Schengen-Erschung-Zentrumen. Then we agree on a distribution key! It's meaty, there are different models, and whether Austria now receives 2.8 percent of refugees or 3.1 percent, is still meated. We can end this discussion and now take a decision: Okay, this model we assume, and that's the distribution key for the reception of refugees across Europe! If you think that all these ideas come from the Gutman Vavrik, who knows when he goes out, wears Jesus-Sandalen and Knitpullover, no, that's not the solution, it needs a holistic approach to the conflict resolution, the EZA, conflict prevention and also humanitarian aid, we can do something. Mr. Federal Minister, I was very pleased to hear that in a few interviews you said that you thought you would increase the foreign disaster aid fund to €20 million, increase the EZA, maybe increase the contributions to the UNHCR again. I should like to remind you that I did not make a joint request with Mr Windbüchler-Sushill from this pult a year ago, which referred to precisely these points. This has been voted down by the Members of the Red and Black Group. Applications have not been postponed in the Committee on Foreign Policy not quite a month ago. But, sponge over it. If you've considered it differently, it's great. Once again my appeal: to put real actions, to put actions! In this sense, I also propose two motions for resolutions today. I hope that, in contrast to the usual use of this House, they will not only be suffocated by the government parties because they come from the wrong corner, namely from the opposition corner, so that you may feel a bit of a backwind on the part of the House. My first request is: [[Quoted print version removed]] That's a measure. The second measure, also in a resolution: Resolution by Mr Nikolaus Scherak, Mr Christoph Vavrik, Mr Colleagues, on the establishment of an effective and financially adequate search and rescue mission in the Mediterranean The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Government is invited to work at EU level for the establishment of a search and maritime emergency mission in the Mediterranean, co-financed, effectively and financially by all EU Member States.” That would be your idea, Mrs. Colleague, we're on the same wavelength. These are just two examples, I think the list is long. It is difficult to find long-term measures. But please: Take action! Memorial minutes, statements of concern, standing at the minor square are no longer enough. It takes action! It takes action! - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e13438	The motions for resolutions are sufficiently supported, properly put in place and are therefore under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording:
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e13573	Next speaker: Mrs Dr Lintl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e13594	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! In our opinion, the International Centre for Migration Policy Development is an important institution and is probably also doing good work. The specific reason for today's agenda is simply a legal measure. That is why we agree. However, the intercontinental migration flows of the 21st can occur. In view of the catastrophe in the Mediterranean, there is little scientific analysis in the present century. The international humanitarian crisis in Africa, the wars in Libya, Iraq and Syria, the terrible fates of desperate refugees have been on the rise for years. It can no longer be done with simply discussing, negotiating and legislating, but rather we must quickly take all those actions and take the necessary political decisions to prevent the almost daily drowning of boat refugees in the Mediterranean. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] One of Europe's underestimated aspects is the fact that ISIS now has access to the Mediterranean in Libya. This is an extreme security risk that European governments must be aware of. As it seems, however, Brussels has now finally recognised the need to act and to convene this special summit for tomorrow. I mentioned this in a previous speech: The politics of Australia is absolutely remarkable. ‘NO WAY’ clearly indicates from the outset that only legally requested recording is possible. The success of the campaign is that the entire Australian continent does not have to complain of drowned refugees. This is an open, clear way, certainly not supported by all, but it preserves human life. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team, as well as with representatives of the FPÖ.]] There is now an urgent need for joint action by the EU. There is a need for a joint initiative to stop refugee boats, which are sent out by criminal organizations benefiting from the war chaos into the Mediterranean. The IS has already threatened to mix jihadists among the refugees, so to speak, to use refugees as weapons. There is also a need for an armed unit to proceed in the Mediterranean against the towpers, who sank responsibly overloaded boats. There is a need for a joint international initiative to stabilise Libya, for example through a UN commitment. It takes measures to reduce the causes of so many people flee their home countries. There is a need for a pan-European solidarity approach to the reception of refugees. Austria is third in the European countries as regards the number of refugees taken up. However, if there is no acceptance of further inclusion among the indigenous population, this must also be expressed openly. It needs a plan corresponding to the reality of European opportunities. Millions of refugees and migrants of poverty cannot be included in Europe. This too must be kept open. All these measures could be the beginning of a united Europe. I therefore call on the Federal Government to have the EU examine the possibilities of a ship blockade before Libya, further that the conditions for establishing UNHCR-controlled refugee reception centres are created as quickly as possible in the North African countries. We consider these two measures to be the most important and most efficient solutions in view of this humanitarian disaster. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e13670	Mr Bundesminister spoke briefly on a point of view. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e13692	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, watch out! First of all, I should like to start with a few words on the item on the agenda. ICMPD has been addressed by Mr Hübner, but also by Mr Glavischnig. It is an organisation that carries the term “migration” in the title and also deals with the subject. I can only rightfully give the club lady Glawischnig what you said to the organization, but I believe, Mr Hübner, that the reason for the criticism is not just that the word ‘migration’ is on the name, but it is a very basic issue, about international organisations, about NGOs in Austria. I have access to it in principle other than you, and I would like to take this opportunity to justify it once again. I believe that Austria benefits greatly from the fact that, in particular, Vienna is a seat of international organisations, a seat of NGOs, and still that God is grateful, although competition is getting harder and more difficult, has not lost its attractiveness. For all those who are politically interested, it is very quick to realize that this, of course, brings us an absurd added value, politically, especially foreign policy. But it's not just that. I think it's a contribution to making Vienna, Austria a lot more open. And, above all, economically – I think, at least this argument should draw, even if one does not want the others to be true – it is an added value for us as a Republic. We currently have around 37 international organizations in Austria. This means that we have around €500 million of rerouting profitability, and we have over 10,000 jobs created by these international organisations directly and indirectly in Austria. Anyone who works in the UN or elsewhere in Austria goes to eat, goes to the hairdresser, lives in Austria and uses all that our country has to offer economically. [[Abg. Doppler: They do not pay taxes in Austria!]] I believe that only this argument, even if you ignore the other arguments, should be strong enough that we stand to be a world-wide country, that we are committed to the fact that these organisations have a place in Austria. Especially at a time when the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as well as other ministries, are quite massively behind it, not to lose existing organizations and to bring new organizations to Austria in competition with other countries, especially in such a time we should not go to these organizations, but, quite the contrary, to recognise the added value they offer us. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Vavrik.]] But I would now like to come to the main theme of today, the drama in the Mediterranean and the refugee policy. Mrs. Klubobfrau Glavischnig has said that there are people who say rescue is the invitation to the tractors, and she finds it cynical. I can only fully support this. I think, in particular, the last days show it, but also in principle, we should all be aware that salvation is our absolute duty and responsibility and that no way is going about it or that we should not even look for other options. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Darmann.]] I believe, however, that it is necessary, at the same time, to mention that in addition to this need for salvation, which has priority, and that thanks be to God, also clearly defined among the Foreign Ministers and Interior Ministers, there are other issues that we must address if we want to be successful in the long term. I am glad that the foreign and internal ministers immediately had clarity that there is a need for an increase in rescue capacities; and if you ask me, this has also been carried by all the others there. It has needed a disaster, which is more than sadness in this context, but the positive thing is that there is awareness of it throughout the European Union. I therefore assume that what has been discussed here will be implemented immediately. But in addition to the rescue, which undoubtedly has priority, there is also the need to actively fight the tractors, because these are those who make money with the suffering of people who put refugees into the water, partly quite consciously on wacky or not sufficiently equipped boats that make money with the suffering of people and have no scruples when people die. If we want to be successful, it also needs an intense fight against tow. Similar to the European Union's actions against piracy and other phenomena, I believe that it is necessary to put an absolute emphasis on the fight against towing. In addition, I believe that if we really want to get hold of the drama, then of course we have to ask ourselves the question, what can we do strategicly to remove the business base from the tractors as well. I believe that it must be our goal to decouple the rescue from the automatic, to Europe. It is therefore absolutely right, in my view, to pursue the idea of having asylum centres in North African countries, which offer us a proper opportunity to determine at all who has the chance of asylum and who does not. If you see the asylum centres critically because you say that everything is not possible, then I just want to think a thought with you quickly. There are some, in particular from the Green Group, who believe that there is a need to create a corridor, and there is a need to create legal means of transport. They have to start somewhere. Where would these transport routes begin? They would, of course, start in the countries of origin and transit. Of course, they would start in North Africa. And these contact points, of course, need security, infrastructure and also proper administration and structure. So if you think that this is possible, and if you think that this model is one that you should think through, then I think that it is equally legitimate to think about what opportunities we can create on the ground to create asylum centres together with international organisations, together with UNHCR and also in partnership with these countries, in order to take the basis of their activity, their bloody business. I think that should be just as interested in all of us. The last point I would like to address is: I believe that, in addition to the need to fight against towing, in addition to the need to expand rescue measures, it will also need better support in the long term for the countries of origin, for the transit countries and the fight against the humanitarian crises and disasters that we are experiencing there. This is an important, long-term contribution. If we help improve living conditions on the ground, this is not only a solidarity aid on the ground, but also an opportunity to reduce migration pressure on Europe. In this respect, I believe that we should endeavour to increase the EZA funds, but of course also the funds in the foreign disaster fund, as a whole, in the Federal Government as a whole. I believe that this is an important contribution, of course, for almost all the other countries of the European Union, because we share this view that we are far from the objectives we have set ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e13752	The next item is Mrs Windbüchler-Souschill. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e13774	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Minister! It's enough! It is enough of the words, the empty words, the promises, the announcements! How many times have we heard it, Mr. Minister? How many times have we heard in this House, but also in the media, that it is important to save people, that it is the highest commandment to actually support and help people? – That's just wrong what you're saying here, because no promise has been made until now. No one! How many times have you claimed that foreign policy is a human rights policy? How many times? - Countless times. This is just as wrong, however, because foreign policy is still a policy of economic policy and a policy that is also retreating behind the walls of the European Union. They say: Rescue is duty and responsibility. I say: The Austrian Federal Government should finally take the protection of refugees seriously and not withdraw behind the walls and fences of the European Union, but in fact provide access to legal entry into Europe, should actually implement search and rescue missions. The declared objective must also be to remove fences and walls of the European Union. 50 million people flee war, terror, hunger, thirst, suffering, arms force. 50 million people! If we use the eurozone: In this there are about 350 million people. If this were to be done, that was to say: Every seventh person in the eurozone, probably every second or third family of the eurozone, would flee. This is a huge number on the run worldwide. On the way to Europe, tragically, there is only one percentage of all refugees. And you are pretending that Europe is facing collapse due to the entry of so many people whom we could no longer take up as a Europe who could not find place and who could not receive solidarity. Austria has a responsibility to assume, and human rights, refugee and asylum policy should be changed. Austria will also have the opportunity to discuss and advise the Ten Points Plan presented on Monday. If we look more closely at this, we see that it is again a question of raising borders, leaving people in a stronger position, and of not increasing the need for solidarity and support. It is about the Frontex mandate being intervened in a larger radius. The Frontex mandate does not mean maritime emergency aid, but clearly means border protection. The Greens, on the other hand, speak out. The short-term motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Schieder and Mr Lopatka also provides for precisely these points. On the other hand, we also speak out. In fact, it's about more. It is about ensuring the rescue of those seeking protection in the Mediterranean. I therefore make the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e13843	The application submitted is sufficiently supported, properly submitted and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e13916	Next speaker: Madam President, I should like to thank you for your support. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e13938	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! I refer, in my statement, to the item on the agenda which has not yet been discussed 5. This is a government template, which is a statement on the withdrawal of the Austrian reservation on an anti-discrimination convention in respect of the special protection of women's workers. This is probably a) a bulky title and b) something that leaves uninformed observers rather confused, because they will ask themselves the question: Why did Austria have a reservation against an anti-discrimination convention? – For the reversing would mean that we allow discrimination. This convention reflects, as it were, the different dealings between individual states, for example, with the issue of women in the army and the protection of women. Article 7 of the Convention, against which Austria originally filed a reservation, states that women may exercise at all levels and any public function, including military services. The Republic was able to withdraw this reservation in 2000 after women were allowed training in the German army. Article 11 dealing with the elimination of all forms of discrimination in the labour market: Austria also had a reservation. In view of the fact that only motherhood allowed for positive discrimination, Article 11 contrary to Austrian law with regard to night work on the one hand and special employment bans on the other. In 2006, Austria was able to withdraw its reservation as regards the night work of women due to the changed legal situation in Austria, and the employment bans or restrictions related to increased exposure to lead and also special physical loads, also examined by the central labour inspectorate, no longer correspond to the real circumstances resulting from technical progress. It is therefore only logical to withdraw the last reservation against Article 11 and to recognise in its entirety the Convention signed by Austria in 1980 and ratified in 1982.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e13980	Mrs Pilz. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e14001	Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I was also on the Minorite Square, and I believed there for a moment, after the Chancellor, the Federal President, Clubobmann, government members and many Members of this House have confessed that something is changing this time. Now the Foreign Minister is acting and says: We need a disaster to think about what we can do! – Are you clear, Mr Foreign Minister, what you are actually saying? You've needed a disaster to get what happens every day in the Mediterranean for years? [[Abg. Riedler: In Europe!]] You needed a disaster? [[Abg. Rädler: No, Mr. Pilz!]] Do you know what the drowning refugees in the Mediterranean need? – Not speakers, but savior. That's the difference! - What? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Ridler: Liar!]] [[Abg. Rädler: He said we were in Europe!]] I do not want to discuss the ‘lying’ call in this context because it is similar to ‘savior’ in this context. The second point, Mr Foreign Minister. I wonder, Why didn't you and your colleagues do anything? Why didn't you do anything? In October of the previous year, the Italian Minister of the Interior declared to the public – I quote – that: ‘Mare Nostrum ends. Italy has done its duty.” You knew that, all your colleagues knew. It was clear: From one day to another, the sea rescue programme of Italy ends. And it was clear: Hundreds of thousands of refugees are under acute threat from that day on. It went by €9 million. Now you're talking about learning something now? – First of all, you should state publicly, perhaps you will make it possible for you to regret this and that this political failure deeply leads you and your colleagues. At least that would be a gesture. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Mr Klubobmann Schieder, you will then make a request here, which I do not understand, as I say quite with caution. They are referring to the 10-point programme of the European Union, which will again be discussed tomorrow. [[The speaker shall keep a document up to date.]] Do you know what word it doesn't contain? - Sea rescue. There are proposals to take fingerprints, destroy tow boats. There's everything in there. Sea rescue is not in any of these ten points. [[Abg. That's what's inside!]] This is incomprehensible to me, and therefore, Mr Foreign Minister, Eva Glavischnig has asked you, and others have asked you: Explain to us whether you will present and support an Austrian initiative for a large maritime rescue programme of the European Union tomorrow and whether you will bring out the sentence: All right, if this does not happen immediately in the European Union, this €9 or €10 million can also be taken over by Austria, it must not fail!Unknown term type: "%s".? One last point on the subject: No one argues that it is refugees who risk their lives on the run. No one argues that refugees have a right, namely the right to asylum. No one argues that refugees do not have the right to apply abroad if they are seeking asylum in Austria. So no one can dispute the right of refugees to get there with all the means in this world, where they can legally apply for asylum. They are prevented from doing so. Foreign Minister! Now you're saying, Let's make a Mikl-leader store in Libya and make a short storage in Syria or anywhere. Yeah, how's that supposed to go? – In addition to the fact that people there have no right to apply for asylum. How's that going? Who is to protect these camps from the IS and from the terrorist militias? The Austrian federal army, UN troops? What exactly does your plan look like? - It's not possible! It doesn't work, and reality is, tomorrow, the next week, hundreds of refugees, men, women and children, will get on the way in rusty and threatened boats. Now you finally stop talking – and finally do something! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] If you still haven't understood it, we'll sit down, we'll do the plan and drive to Brussels and say: We in Austria, not only in Parliament, but also in most people in this Republic, because they often think much more human than internal ministers and security politicians, enough, we do not want this to go on! And by the way: We need a foreign minister who does not talk but saves – I am looking for you for that!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e14142	My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Every president has different calls of order. I handle it in such a way that when someone is personally attacked, I give a call for order. An example: If you say, "Your policy is hypocritical," I don't give you a call for order. If you say, "You're hypocrites," I'll give you a call for order. That is why I would ask you not to use the personal accusation of the lie, even in the case of intermediate calls. This is a personal accusation that we should not let apply here. [[Abg. Brosz: The call was “lying, ” not“ lying ”!]] That's exactly the same thing. No matter if you say, “You lie” or “You are a liar”, that’s what I want to explain. [[Abg. Brosz: There's no call for order?]] This is a statement for which there is a call for order, and that is why I give a call for order for this call. [[Call: Who? Whom]] Mr Heinzl has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e14209	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Pilz, I have the floor to speak on the matter of passports on the current agenda, but one thing I can say to you: If you are so deeply involved in this sad issue of preventing further deaths in the Mediterranean, and have the power of the motion for a resolution. Andreas Schiederand Dr. Reinhold Lopatka accused of not having anything to do with the rescue of the sea, will I ask you, honourable Member Pilz - do you just have the request in your hand? – I suppose –, read it carefully. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pillow.]] It states very clearly, fattenedly: “The EU’s search and maritime emergency programmes to prevent further deaths in the Mediterranean.” Yeah, what's that? Yeah, what's that? [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Brosz: But in the ten points?]] Ladies and gentlemen, now, as I have said, on the subject of the amendment of passports. The previous speaker from the ÖVP has already said how important it is that there is a change here, especially as regards foreign-Austrian women and Austrians. For these, there will be a simplification when they apply for a passport. It's important for me to also find out: The passport is, of course, exclusively issued by the Republic of Austria, and German authorities take over only part of the administrative work. Ladies and gentlemen, this is by no means a matter of course, but only the long-standing close relationship and cooperation between Germany and Austria at political and government level. It is therefore also possible to decide on this really good change in the field of passports. I wish all the best for the truly innovative and pioneering project for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e14262	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e14283	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! There are important and urgent issues to be discussed in foreign policy. There is a problem in Ukraine, it is about Syria, it is about combating terrorism, right down to the tragedies that occur in the Mediterranean, as previous speakers have already discussed. We have also discussed this very widely in the Committee. I would like to thank Foreign Minister Sebastian Kurz for his commitment to peace and security, not only in our country, but worldwide. I therefore cannot understand Mr Pilz's inconspicuous speech, because: Not our Foreign Minister has needed a disaster to express his opinion, but the formation of opinions within the international community has unfortunately needed this disaster by God. Of course, we also have things to discuss on a daily basis, and there are also rules on intergovernmental relations. Mrs Minzig has already mentioned that there has been an agreement in cooperation in the area of passports with the Federal Republic of Germany, which we should decide on, of which 240 000 Austrian citizens can benefit. But there are other agreements in the international community, and this also involves the relationship with countries which are less reliable, to countries where the rule of law is not as strong as we do. The Republic of Burundi is one of these countries. Located in East Africa, over Ten million inhabitants, only one third of the area of Austria, one of the most densely populated countries in Africa, a country with a presidential system, where the President is also the head of government at the same time. Unfortunately, corruption is widespread in this country, and trust in the authorities is not necessarily given to a great extent. There is now an agreement to exempt foreign public documents from certification, namely the Hague Convention. This Convention is also useful, but it should be in our interest that this Convention applies only to States where there is a rule of law. We consider this security to be not given in the case of the Republic of Burundi. We therefore oppose the accession of the Republic of Burundi to this agreement. The result is that documents issued by the Republic of Burundi cannot be accepted by us automatically, but can be checked individually. The Federal Government has spoken against it, and we should and will also approve this opposition here in Parliament. It is about security and legal protection for the Austrians. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e14331	Mr Bösch. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e14353	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I can tell you freely for us that we will reject these requests that you have made in this debate. We see the policy of this refugee drama and these refugee tragedy in the Mediterranean, as it is made by the European Union, and as you are now proposed, for the completely wrong path. Of course, the argument that this rescue is also being done by the tractors is true; the rescue off the coasts of Europe is an important aspect in the concept of all these towing bands in order to attract people to their boats. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We therefore have to ensure that this flow of refugees is not even going on. That is to say, we have to take measures, including from the European Union, Mr Federal Minister, who is on the coasts of North Africa to prevent people from going into their disaster with these boats. It is therefore necessary to set up and assess measures to ensure a blockade on the North African coast, and, of course, to bring people entering illegal European soil back to their home countries. [[Accompaniment with the FPÖ and the Abg. Lintl.]] [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Intermediation: How to get to Europe legally?]] Ladies and gentlemen, we do not see another way to prevent this tragedy. It is a matter of course that people who are in distress are saved, and this is naturally guaranteed by the marine elements of the Mediterranean countries of the European Union. [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: How to get to Europe legally?]] [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: How to get to Europe legally?]] It is a matter of course that people who are in distress are saved. But it must also be a matter of course to pursue a policy that people do not even get into this need.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e14439	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Straster. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e14460	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen. A special greeting to the national vocational school Pöchlarn, which is with us today with a class. Welcome! [[General condolences.]] I would like to speak briefly about the International Centre for Migration Policy Development. The seat of this institution is in Vienna. There is also an outside office in Brussels. EU contacts are established there and projects are also carried out. And especially for current occasion worth mentioning: There are also outposts in North Africa and the Middle East. [[Abg. That's right!]] The amendment on the agenda today refers in fact only to an internal tax system that has been applied for years and does not result in any additional costs. However, I would like to take a brief look at the main areas of this institution's work. This institute works with a very strictly defined methodological approach: Partnership cooperation between governments, non-governmental organisations and civil society is focused on. There are three main areas of work. Firstly, research so that it is possible for us as decision-makers to discuss facts based on facts and decide on facts. The aim is to provide support and advice to decision-makers, to provide education, and to ensure that, when experience has been gained, a certain knowledge transfer is achieved. I have the impression that excellent work is being done. Finally, in the round: I do not think that migration problems only go away with the motto of borders! It can be solved as proposed by the Greens. But I do not believe that the FPÖ-Motto borders up! It's going to bring us to the finish. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haven't you seen him?]] Coming to the end: I believe that this institution will deliver valuable results that allow for a proper discourse and proper decisions in this direction. On this path, all right!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e14513	Mrs Mag. Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e14534	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Under this item on the agenda, we are also discussing the withdrawal of the reservation for the UN Convention to eliminate all forms of discrimination against women in respect of the special protection of women's workers. This is the third reservation we are now taking back at CEDAW. The first reservation referred to the night work of women, which we took back in 2006. There was another reservation, as it was about military services, talking about the exercise of military services by women. We took that back in 2000. Now the last reservation has also been withdrawn. CEDAW is a very important instrument for international equality policy. Austria has been since 1. January 2015 is now for the first time a member of the CEDAW Committee, namely Dr. Lilian Hofmeister. She was a substitute judge of the Constitutional Court, is a highly pronounced women's politician, an elegant and profound expert in law and is now working for Austria in this committee for the first time. I wish her a lot of success and happiness. I couldn't call her until yesterday. It is very motivated, especially in Geneva, has already been able to cooperate in this very important area. I would like to say that, by withdrawing these reservations, we are now taking up these recommendations from the CEDAW Committee's country reports. The ‘7./8. Austria’s national report has been available since February 2013. We follow the recommendations. These recommendations are taken very seriously by the Member States. In principle, Austria has experienced a good assessment. Such a report shall be submitted every four years. I wish Mrs. Dr. Hofmeister a lot of success for this important work, also in the sense of Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e14574	Next, Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e14595	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I did not actually want to speak on this subject, but the statements by Mr Pilz have moved me to put light in the dark here, to tell us what green politics looks like in the topic of refugees. I was represented in the Migration Committee a few years ago as a substitute member of the Council of Europe. The main member was the Green Van der Bellen. He's almost never been there, so I've always been able to participate there. And now it comes: I have already addressed this Mediterranean problem in the Migration Committee. And not only that, I have also tried to make a report on this subject, namely the Frontex and the Boatpeople problem. These disasters, which have now occurred, I already have “prophetime” at that time because nothing has been done in this direction. It was a very simple bill, it was clear that this would happen once. In the meantime, many, many lives were sacrificed because politics did not respond. I had this report together at the time, with all the signatures. This is not so easy because we need Members from seven different countries who agree, and then 21 signatures. I did. But then I was removed from there. This report would have been adopted by the Green Group. Van der Bellen can be continued, but it has not been done. Instead, it was handed over to the English, who then lowered it. So, ladies and gentlemen, if there's a green mushroom going out here and excited about the fact that the many people have died, I have to say: You would have had it in your hands with your group to bring relief or to prevent it. I asked that the Frontex be patrolled directly at the African border, that intergovernmental agreements be concluded so that these boats are no longer brought to the sea, and that would have been possible if something had been done. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] You would have had it in your hand, but you would rather that the refugees come across the sea and risk their lives. That's your policy and that's what you're talking about. People outside also know once! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e14652	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur or one of the rapporteur wish to have a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall first proceed to the vote on agenda item 2: Proposal from the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Federal Republic of Germany on cooperation in the field of passports, in 293 of the Supplements in accordance with Art. Paragraph 50 1 Z 1 B-VG. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall also proceed to the vote on agenda item 3: Proposal from the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Treaty on the Fourth Amendment to the Treaty establishing and operating the International Centre for Migration Policy Development (ICMPD) in Vienna concerning the introduction of an internal tax system, in 310 of the supplements in accordance with Art. Paragraph 50 1 Z 1 B-VG. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Schieder, Mr Lopatka, and others on EU search and maritime emergency programmes to prevent further deaths in the Mediterranean. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is accepted by the majority. (E 70.) We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Scherak, colleagues on a regular restitution programme for Austria and the EU. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Scherak, ladies and gentlemen, on the establishment of an effective and financially adequate search and rescue mission in the Mediterranean. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues on Mare Nostrum II as a European maritime emergency rescue. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. We shall also vote on Agenda item 4: Proposal from the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Declaration by the Republic Austria concerning the opposition to the accession of the Republic of Burundi to the Convention for the Liberation of Foreign Public Documents of Certification, in 373 of the Supplements in accordance with Art. Paragraph 50 1 Z 1 B-VG. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Finally, we come to the vote on agenda item 5: Proposal from the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Declaration on the withdrawal of the Austrian reservation on Art. 11 of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination of Women with regard to the Special Protection of Women, in 489 of the Supplements in accordance with Art. Paragraph 50 1 Z 1 B-VG. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. [[13:54:34]] 6. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Christine Muttonen, Dr Reinhold Lopatka, colleagues on the extension of the mandate of the UN mission MINURSO (497 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e14808	We're now on the 6th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Magistrate has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Johannes Rauch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e14838	Mr President. Mr. Foreign Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As we have already heard today, Austria is traditionally a country that thinks very strongly in the multilateral context, but also acts. This testifies specifically to Austria's or this Federal Government's commitment to organisations such as the Council of Europe, the OSCE and in this case, to the motion for a resolution, to the commitment in the United Nations and to the taking over of co-responsibility, to co-determination in a common European foreign policy. In addition, our Foreign Minister and the entire government are very committed to human rights and also to the protection of minorities. Mr Pilz. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. I very much appreciate your contributions to the debate, but I think you simply did not find the right tone in the debate contribution before. We are talking about a tragedy that is taking place in the Mediterranean, and I think we should work together to find solutions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pillow.]] If you accused the Foreign Minister of just talking, I have to say that's just not true. Our Foreign Minister and the Minister of the Interior have made concrete proposals in this area as the only EU country. It is perfectly legitimate to discuss the issue of human rights, refugees, human tragedy, but I believe that a certain amount of tonality should be guaranteed in the House. On the matter itself you can always discuss everything. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The motion for a resolution before us today refers to a necessary and proper extension of the mandate of the UN mission of MINURSO in Western Sahara, from my point of view. It is also about including human rights observation in the mandate. It is a very old mandate, which originally referred to a referendum on the independence of the people of Western Sahara, the Kingdom of Morocco. So far, this UN mission has included mainly the surveillance of the ceasefire between the Kingdom of Morocco and that organization Frente Polisario. Despite the strained human rights situation, MINURSO does not have any specific components relating to human rights observation. It is precisely this human rights observation that this motion for a resolution is aimed at. We all know that the UN mandate in this form was the first one. On 28 May, the UN Security Council decided to close its doors on 28 May. It is expected to extend this mandate for another year. It would be welcome if, in this extension of the mandate, the content of our joint motion for a resolution would also be reflected in respect of human rights observation in this area of Western Sahara. – Thank you very much, and I ask for your consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e14889	Mrs Muttonen. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e14911	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The conflict we are dealing with in this motion for a resolution, namely that in the Western Sahara between the Western Sahara and the Moroccan occupation, is easily forgotten by us in the face of the many armed conflicts, crises and humanitarian disasters in this region. Since the end of the Civil War in 1991, the conflict has been relatively peaceful, the situation is half stable. But he's far away from being solved. Many people in this region, especially many young people, are frustrated, rightly feel excluded and see no perspective for their lives. So the situation is a dangerous mixture. It is certainly a good ground for terrorist groups, and it threatens this currently relatively stable situation. We must therefore work more closely on a solution process, we need a peaceful solution process for this conflict. It is therefore particularly important to finally equip the UN Peace Mission MINURSO in Western Sahara with a mandate to monitor human rights. This has so far been blocked by France and Morocco. Such a mandate would be important, however, because, as national and international human rights organisations maintain, the serious human rights violations, unfair court proceedings and mistrust in Moroccan justice continue to be an obstacle to any attempt to resolve the conflict – despite the progress made by the Moroccan government in recent years. With a human rights mandate, the UN Peace Mission could help. It could help prevent and clarify human rights violations, and it could help to restore confidence between the conflict parties. Ladies and gentlemen! With this proposal, we are committed to strengthening Austria's commitment to this forgotten conflict. The request was discussed and adopted unanimously in the Committee on Foreign Policy. I therefore hope to have a broad agreement here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e14953	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Hübner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e14974	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We have also agreed to the Committee, and we will also agree here, but not because it is such a great proposal and because it is so important, but because the Foreign Minister has promised us that there is no financial burden on Austria. Therefore, we have nothing against the fact that this UN mission also assesses and reviews human rights issues – but there is nothing to object to, that is certainly plausible, and I am sure that the request is well meant. Nevertheless, you must not forget one thing: This MINURSO is one of the most unnecessary and inefficient UN missions available – the colleague has said it anyway: Since 1991 de facto ceasefire. The preparation of a popular vote in the Western Sahara is illusion, but it is still being pursued eagerly, and nevertheless Austria transfers 300 000 € per year – that is not so much! – for this special mission. This is not covered by the general UN budget, but is financed by direct payments from individual countries, including Austria. At a time when the whole region is flying into the air, where there are practically the most serious violations of human rights everywhere, where there are millions of refugees, where there is a dark dictatorship in Algeria, tens of thousands of people are disappearing and imprisoned, where Libya is disintegrated, where there is a hard military dictatorship in Egypt, there are about 25,000 political prisoners, and in the last three months alone over a thousand death sentences from politics Reasons have been raised where the Saudis have managed to destroy Yemen's infrastructure so far that today it is assumed that half of the population has lost their livelihood and is likely to come up in the next few months to flee or emigrate – against this background the problem of Western Sahara, which has not been up to date for two decades. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Muttons]] There the situation is relatively stable and good, there we have a country with Morocco, which still has one of the most relatively democratic systems, where in the court proceedings it still looks quite best, where there is a right to a defender. It is precisely there that is the focus – I don't want to say: naïve – well meant, but probably not really important. Nevertheless: We agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e15029	Mrs Windbüchler-Sushill. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e15050	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Peace policy measures need not only time, but primarily continuity. Any peace policy measure, which is broken off abruptly and without sustainable support, would actually be an unnecessary peace policy measure. On the other hand, continuous peace-making measures cannot be unnecessary and in vain. Such an extension towards human rights observation is important and correct. I believe that there should be much more such initiatives, not just in the This is because peace policy measures – such as this observation, but also the election observation of the OSCE and other organisations as well as multilateral agreements – are simply important. Austria's participation in all these forms is a big and real step. Nevertheless, it should be noted that multilateral foreign policy also costs money. The question is how – today we already had the debate on the federal financial framework – a minimum of €10 million next year and further reductions and cuts in the foreign ministry will actually have an impact, because: Foreign policy needs focus, of course, but it also needs money. When it comes to locking or reducing messages, you certainly don't find any friends with the greens – quite the opposite. When it comes to promoting the development of multilateral mergers, you would find them, but of course that also needs money. That means: Every reduction in the foreign ministry is indeed a reduction in foreign policy, and we will certainly not go along with it.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e15089	Next speaker: Mrs Dr Lintl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e15111	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! According to Human Rights Watch reports, there are serious human rights violations among the Sahauris living under Moroccan rule, as well as among those living in isolated refugee camps in Algeria. Monitoring respect for human rights would be an important tool to prevent human rights violations and build confidence between the conflict parties. We therefore support this motion for a resolution on the extension of the UN mandate by a specific component to monitor the observance of human rights. This is also important because in this context any activities of radical-Islamic ISIS can be recognized in good time. We are also in favour of giving special rapporteurs of the UN Human Rights Council access and monitoring the human rights situation in the areas concerned. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e15141	I call Mr Wenninger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e15162	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much for being able to adopt this important decision today, namely that the UN will also have the right to observe the human rights situation for the Sahauris in the area occupied by Morocco in the future. However, I have the impression that some of my previous speakers do not know exactly the situation in this difficult region of North Africa or, as Mr Hübner has done, the situation of more than one hundred thousand refugees, who, driven by the Moroccan occupation powers, have been living in the bright sun in the middle of the Saharan refugee camps for over 35 years. Human suffering is not relativable, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and representatives of ÖVP, Greens and Team Stronach.]] I have had twice the opportunity to visit these refugee camps: At the beginning of the 1980s, when the Frente Polisario was still leading the armed liberation struggle against the Moroccan troops, and in the previous year, where I could see how more than a hundred thousand people – especially young people – managed to initiate a peaceful process despite the inhumane living conditions in the Sahara. Since 1991 they have stopped the war operations so as not to give the Moroccan side an argument to continue to be against holding a referendum. They have managed to build a state with their own commitment and international support, including with the help of Austria, with kindergartens, schools, hospitals and modest agriculture, which are trying to feed refugees – in the hope that they will have a referendum and the right to self-determination of their people will be implemented. These people are disappointed by the international community but willing to remain peaceful. I am not referring to Mr Bösch's statement in the previous item on the agenda, but to Mr Hübner I would like to say: It's not relativable. There are people who have been expelled from their home with Napalm bombs in the decolonization process, who wish nothing but to live peacefully and to use their right of self-determination, which we demand for other peoples in Europe and, of course, worldwide. That's why I'd be very happy if some time went by: I am willing to give a private body on this issue, because it is not only a political concern but also a human one. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kitzmüller.]] I would therefore like to conclude by thanking, above all, those Austrians who have been involved not only in development cooperation for decades, but also in humanitarian measures in Western Sahara: This is above all the Austrian Saharau Society with the countryman Karin Scheele and many others who invite children to Austria year after year as part of the “Feries of War” action. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am there every time, and, Mr Hübner, the biggest adventure for these children is an Austrian water pipeline from which fresh water comes in drinking water quality. – Do not relativize, but engage, and this conflict should no longer be forgotten!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e15229	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We are now voting on the resolution on the extension of the mandate of the UN mission MINURSO to the Committee Report 497 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 71.) [[14:11:19]] 7. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Crime file: Defense of human rights and freedom of expression – Freedom for the human rights activist and lawyer Waleed Abulkhair (498 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e15286	We're now on the 7th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Hübner was the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e15313	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In this case, at least in committee, all Members agreed: These are things that we cannot accept and cannot accept and against which we, as Members of Parliament, must raise our vote, because that the lawyer of a politically persecuted representative, not after successful representation, but after representation, is then charged even under terrorist law and sentenced to 15 years in prison, we have not known this, at least in Europe, for 200 years. I've been looking at: Neither the National Socialists had persecution of defenders, nor the Stalinist system, since there was usually no defender at all. [[Abg. Heinzl: So there was a real defense in National Socialism!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] The first time I came across it was the trial against Ludwig XVI, but that was already in 1792. [[Abg. Wenninger: National Socialist rule of law?! We have always celebrated it. Jewish lawyers weren't? There was no professional ban?]] At that time, the defender Raymond de Sèze was arrested after the closing plea and after his attempt to appeal to the people and subsequently sentenced to death. However, the judgment was no longer enforced because Robespierre had already been executed before. That is why the Sèze has been released. So this shows: There is a country far away from what we have experienced over the last 200 years, there is a need for action, also in that this country continues to be seen by many – unfortunately also by many in Europe – as allies and one believes it must fight with this country against terror. Such countries are not allies, such countries are not, in particular, a sustainable solution to the problems of the region, but such countries are potential bombs that will eventually go into the air if they do not change, and there is good if we raise our voices. I do not really like that we only vote in one single case and do not even generally call on the European institutions to end cooperation with countries that act in this way and which interpret the laws as Saudi Arabia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e15361	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Lopatka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e15383	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! My colleague, it's always easy to end something. More difficult than ending a cooperation is always the dialogue, but the dialogue is the right way. This is my access to these questions, you have another one. I just wanted to note this on your last sentences. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we have begun today's session with a memory minute for the victims of violence, murder and expulsion. 100 years ago, those events in which Armenians and other Christian groups were injured in a form in their right hands have occurred in which Pope Francis said that this was the first genocide of the 20th century. ==References== [[Abg. Wenninger: That wasn't the first!]] You should not correct the Pope if it is possible. [[Abg. Wenninger: Yes!]] [[Abg. Kitzmüller: Yes, please!]] – Talk to Mr Cap and ask him what he thinks about the Pope Francis! To use this word, there are many controversyes, ladies and gentlemen, and I do not want to look for a precise legal definition. We didn't want to hurt anyone today. We are well aware that we have to be very sensitive in this respect, but today – including all the clubmen outside the plenary session – we have once again explained our position in the House. Why do I say this at the beginning of my speech? . Because we need to see this debate on this item on the agenda as a whole. On the one hand, we have to seek cooperation, especially with countries such as Saudi Arabia or China, in order to address this directly: I am now coming from a conversation with representatives from Tibet, where it is not easy to conduct this dialogue. But Austria has a tradition in this regard as a place of dialogue, and at least I will do everything to enable Austria to maintain this tradition in the future. As Parliament, we should also make a contribution when it comes to encouraging Armenia and Turkey to create normal diplomatic relations, or when it comes to doing something about religious freedom worldwide. That's one thing, but the other is just as clear: There are human rights violations where they exist – there is no compromise. Human rights cannot be shared, and therefore it cannot be negotiated either. Of course, what happened in the case of Raif Badawi in the case of alleged case law is huge injustice, and there is no doubt from our side either. That is why I think it is good that we have these debates in the house again and again. I also think it is good that we have today been able to make this joint statement by all six club members. It is a long, difficult path that we have had to experience setbacks through ISIS right now, and this in our century, where no one would have believed that such a thing is possible. But the more important it is to build bridges and not to let this dialogue break down. In this respect, I ask you to understand the position of the Austrian Federal Government. I really think this position is the only way to do everything in order to strengthen those who stand for human rights in Saudi Arabia, especially with regard to the new threats that come to us. [[Abg. New builder: Faymann?]] Even if there is only a small progress, there is always progress. One last sentence: I would never have thought of hearing such a speech from Turkey about Armenia this week as it is today – the reaction to the Pope's speech a week ago sounded completely different. So you should never give up hope, even though it is sometimes difficult to actually hope for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e15469	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e15490	Mr. Klubobmann Lopatka, you mean: Roma locuta, causa finita!, but I believe that the present Pope no longer sees this as so narrow, but rather acts very quickly. That is one of the many points why I really appreciate his kind of presentation, rhetoric, criticism, processing. It may in future ensure that processes such as the rehabilitation of Galileo Galilei in the Vatican do not last 500 years, but perhaps do a little faster. But on the real issue that we have to deal with today: It is the problem that this form of interpretation of Islam, as it happens in Saudi Arabia, is an interpretation – and the problem of this dialogue centre is that we are actually pretending to be the official interpretation of Islam. The Wahhabites are the Wahhabites! We now see this in particular against the background of the conflict between Sunni and Shiite, which also compete with each other in various currents. It is not our job to take sides and to say that for us the Sunni of the wah-habite interpretation are exactly the main conversant for a dialogue. In reality, they would once have to establish a dialogue centre of Islam among themselves, and once debated one another, because what we now had in Yemen is not only the conflict that two regional powers, Iran and Saudi Arabia, are fighting for spheres of influence, but it seems to have also a religious background: Shiite – Sunni. I think we should see it a little bit against this background. Why, especially Spain, the Vatican and all of them have such a meaning in it, you would almost have to invite someone of these two to explain this to us. But it is basically right and good when there are dialogue centres. There can be a lot of dialogue centres from me, that's all right. Only there must be a clear value base: Human rights, democracy, all these things. Yes, if there is the same centre – what the honourable Member Pilz said in a session – that exists here in Vienna, where there is freedom of religion and respect for human rights, even in Riyadh, then this is not only polemic, but it actually has the real core somewhere, that they should accept it if there really is a development going on here. It is therefore not in principle wrong if there is such a thing, but one should also interpret it correctly so that it does not go in the wrong direction. I would like to say something about that. If it's true – I didn't have any conversations there – that there is an economic pressure for the continuation of the dialogue centre in exactly this and no other form on the part of Saudi Arabia, or we're even saying that we're withdrawing from OPEC, from Vienna or anything else, then of course that's all unacceptable! This is also a form of interference. So, when they criticize that we say: Na hi, what is going on here – that the lawyer now has to go to prison, which was first treated with whipping, and now has to confess to Islam – all of this has nothing to do with human rights, democracy and an orderly legal system! They have to accept that, of course, we are criticising this. If the dialogue centre is to have a sense in the future, then also that this is the place of critical reflection and discussion with the states also in Saudi Arabia itself. Then it's all right. But you can't say: Be careful, the lender! and: Not every Friday executions take place!, but Then there must be a very clear word in there. That's, I think, right and important. Otherwise, I am also pleased that we have made this joint statement by the clubmen on the genocide against the Armenians. That is one of the many, many points where Turkey still has a lot to do, in order to be at all levels an interlocutor for an arbitrary accession – which I am in principle skeptical and negative!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e15551	Mrs Windbüchler-Saussill has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e15572	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Dear Minister! Raif Badawi's condemnation has already aroused great international excitement in 2012. Until this sight arrived with us in Austria, it took a little while. It must be said that civil society has, above all, raised, explained and publicly discussed the case of Raif Badawi. It was mainly the civil society groups in Canada, Australia, Norway, Switzerland and Austria, starting from Canada because Raif Badawi's wife can live in Canada with the three children. She was able to find asylum there after her husband was arrested for detours. That is to say, it was only in 2014 that a resolution was adopted in the Austrian Parliament, which also called on the Austrian Minister to use all diplomatic channels and forces to release Raif Badawi and give him the opportunity to actually leave. Now we are going one step further together. And it is also very clear now that the lawyer Raif Badawis, namely, Waleed Abu al-Khair, who was sentenced to 15 years in prison and a high fine because he was and is the lawyer Raif Badawis, and because he has committed himself to actually complying with human rights in Saudi Arabia. This is already a clear sign of the Saudi-Arab regime's dealings with dissidents, with oppositionists, with people who say quite clearly and openly and also trust to say quite clearly and openly that freedom of expression, media and religion are essential elements of a society, culture and also of living together. That is why it is also so important and right to take a clear stand against the Saudi Center at the Vienna Ring, to show clearly what this wahhabitic system actually means. As long as a dialogue centre, so-called dialogue centre, is funded exclusively by a Saudi regime, it is not an interreligious centre – it must finally become aware of them – and as long as it is, there will always be the demand that this intercultural, interreligious centre be closed.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e15605	Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Muttons. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e15627	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, the fates of the blogger Raif Badawi and his lawyer are not isolated. If you look at this, you can see that they are exemplary for the anti-human legal system of Saudi Arabia. Human rights activists and critics of the religious groups there are regularly sentenced to draconian punishments. Torture is also on the agenda. Saudi Arabia is a world leader in executions. At least 90 death sentences were imposed in 2014 according to Amnesty International, in one case due to witchcraft. Raif Badawi, as you know, has been sentenced, among other things, to a thousand sticklifts. This is an execution on councils, which has also been held over and over again. The UN High Commissioner for Human Rights calls this punishment a cruel and inhuman punishment prohibited under international law and in particular under the Convention against Torture. Saudi Arabia has ratified this Convention; Like Saudi Arabia, Austria is a contracting partner of the Convention against Torture. Therefore, in my view, it is not a interference in internal affairs, but our duty to press for compliance with the Treaties and to call on Saudi Arabia to abolish the penalty. I believe that what is important now is that political and diplomatic pressure remains true, for only so has Raif Badawi survived so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e15669	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall proceed to the vote. First of all, we shall come to the vote on the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs to take note of its report 498 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall also vote on the resolution on the release and amnesty of Raif Badawi and his lawyer, Waleed Abulkhair, attached to the Committee Report 498 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 72.) [[14:29:20]] 8. Point Report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on Amendment No 818/A(E) by Mr Tanja Windbüchler-Sushill, Petra Bayr, MA, Dr Franz-Joseph Huainigg, Members on the Global Partnership for Development (499 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e15736	We're on the 8th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Huainigg. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e15764	Mr President. Minister! High house! The tragedy in the Mediterranean shakes us and makes us think very much about what can be improved. I would like to draw attention to the most acute accusations made by Mr Pilz, who personally accused the Minister of harshness here. This is simply not appropriate and cheap little money. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We must always bear in mind that people who do not starve to have an employment that can earn their livelihood through acquisition, who have prospects and live in peace do not voluntarily flee and risk their lives. That is why I also particularly welcome the initiative of Federal Minister Kurz to work in the long term and also to strengthen, expand and force the funds for development cooperation and humanitarian aid. Federal Chancellor Faymann has also promised to support this advance – but this also means that additional financial resources need to be set up here. You know how close the budget is to the outside area. It must also be made clear again and again that development cooperation is an overall strategy of the entire Federal Government, as far as funding and implementation are concerned. Today we will also put forward a motion for a resolution on the extension of the stage plan as envisaged in the government programme. There is also another motion for a resolution, and a year ago we also discussed the key points of content: Development cooperation, poverty reduction, conflict resolution strategies, human rights, the rule of law, peacekeeping, economic partnerships, all these are important means and objectives that we need to achieve in order to improve the situation in African countries. But what is also important is that we start with ourselves and continue the fair trade strategy. If we are now discussing public procurement in Parliament, it is also important to take fair trade into account, because the public hand also has an important pioneering role and a pioneering role. In autumn, the Post-2015 Agenda, the sustainability strategies will be decided. It will then also be about how we implement this nationally. I would like to suggest that we make a national action plan and implement these objectives nationally, including as an overall strategy of all institutions and public authorities. Ladies and gentlemen! It is about Austria's global responsibility. It is about human dignity abroad and abroad. That is why I also urge that the dignity of human beings should finally be laid down in the Austrian Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e15818	Mrs Bayr is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e15839	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The motion for a resolution we are discussing today is based on an event that we carried out in Parliament 11 months ago and which has been very good in terms of content. We have already described it – Franz-Joseph Huainigg has already described it – in working groups dealing with various aspects of the future sustainability development goals. However, the fact that it took eleven months shows that we can work a little bit at our pace, I think. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The Sustainable Development Goals will be the framework for the world community from 2015 to 2030, where we want to develop globally. In these so-called Sustainable Developments or SDGs, three different lines of content are combined, namely on the one hand development agents, i.e. Development issues and documents, for example, the uncompleted tasks we had in the Millennium Goals, in the millennium targets that we should actually implement by the end of 2015. On the other hand, this concerns the whole issue of the results of the Rio+20 conference on sustainability. This also brings the whole environmental aspect into the objectives, which I consider very, very important, because I believe that environmental and development cannot be discussed separately. Thirdly, it is also a question of financing development. Today, in the early morning, we discussed the Federal Financial Framework Act. Among the premise there will, of course, be quite a challenge for Austria, for the Foreign Minister, for this financing conference, which will take place in Addis in July, with a real commitment to say from the European perspective how development funds/services will develop in the future. In general terms, this is supposed to happen upwards. We need to spend more in the future and meet our international commitments. In order to act as a supporter, I shall now put forward a motion for a resolution by Mr Petra Bayr, Mr Franz-Joseph Huainigg, colleagues. This is: ‘The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Minister for Europe, Integration and External Affairs and the Federal Minister for Finance are invited to present, within the framework of the coherent overall responsibility of the Federal Government for Development Cooperation, a strategy for the development and legal anchoring of a step plan to increase the funds for development cooperation until the international 0.7% target is achieved.” On the content of the Sustainable Development Goals, I would like to stress that, from an Austrian point of view, we were particularly concerned with two topics that we tried to bring in: democratic governance on the one hand and rule of law on the other. We have also, in particular, tried to strengthen the Courts of Auditors as important aid instruments of national parliaments, because we believe that Parliament's control functions in good democratic governance and rule of law play an important role. There was – and I would like to stress this – a very excellent interplay between the Austrian Parliament – in some discussions at international level – the President of the Court of Auditors, who is also the chairman of INTOSAI, the international umbrella of the Court of Auditors, as well as Mr Martin Sajdik, who is not only our ambassador to the United Nations in New York, but also the President of the United Nations Economic and Social Council by the middle of the year. This is the unity under which all these development processes are running. It has succeeded in anchoring the billing courts twice in the draft to the SDGs. The question of universality is really also very important to me, saying that these objectives are valid for all countries, including us. Our mission in Austria will be to combat poverty, to drive the inclusion of the disabled, empowerment to strengthen women and work on sustainable patterns of consumption and production. On the one hand, I think this is an opportunity to involve many people in the idea in Austria that seven billion of us share this planet and, accordingly, to leave it so much for our children and children that they too can find a life-worthy environment and lead a life-worthy life on it. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e15917	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place, and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e15972	Next speaker: Mrs Windbüchler-Sushill. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e15993	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! As already mentioned and also discussed, there was today the First Reading of the Federal Financial Framework Act. If you look at exactly what it looks like in the sub-group 12, outside, now, apart from the minus of € 10 million for next year, the next year's turn-out. It must be decided – it is recognised that it is also about challenges and objectives of effect. A challenge is the “Safety of the Austrian contribution to the fight against global poverty”. These include: "Sustainable reduction of poverty, strengthening of peace and human security, and conservation of the environment in partner countries in the framework of bilateral and multilateral development cooperation. The equality between women and men and the needs of children and people with disabilities is taken into account in a particular way." My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, the objectives and challenges are right. But there's a link missing, that of financing. Without development funding, no development cooperation and no development policy! It just doesn't work out. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I can not only find beautiful words about poverty reduction, but also want to cut down radically – perhaps also. As a result, I expect the Federal Minister to present himself to the Minister of Finance in this regard and to make it quite clear that there are not only no cuts in development cooperation, but that there is a first and foremost increase in development funds and the financing of development cooperation. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] 2015 is a globally important year for development policy. One of the first important conferences will take place in July, namely in Addis Ababa on development finance. The question now arises how these sustainable development objectives, which will be decided in September, are actually financed. They must be financed worldwide, but the universality of these development goals must also be implemented in Austria itself and thus financed. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr Minister, we have Austria, you have this responsibility to take over and always think about development policy together with development funding. I also assume that you yourself, Minister, will go to this development finance conference to speak and answer the world.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e16081	The application submitted is properly filed and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e16142	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We are now voting on the resolution on the Global Partnership for Development attached to the Committee's report 499. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. (E 73.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Bayr, Dr Huainigg, colleagues on the stage plan for increasing the EZA budget. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is accepted by the majority. (E 74.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Windbüchler-Souschill, colleagues on the stage plan for increasing the EZA budget. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is rejected. [[14:44:42]] 9. Point Transport Committee report on the Government template (510, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Motorways Act (547 d.b.) 10. Point Report of the Transport Committee on the Government Template (511, e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Act amending the 1999 public passenger and regional transport law (548 d. B.) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report by the Transport Committee on Amendment No 750/A(E) by Mrs Erwin Angerer, Members of Parliament on alternative forms of operation – adaptation requirements in the KflG and GelVerkG (549 d.b.) 12. Point Report by the Transport Committee on Amendment No 321/A(E) by Georg Willi, colleagues on a nationally just “Federal Law on the Financing of Public Infrastructure in Ballrooms” (550 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e16248	We shall now proceed to points 9 to 12 of the agenda, on which the debate will be held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e16276	Mr Kurz and Mr Stöger, Minister of State. Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and in front of the TV devices! Today we have to decide on the legislative adaptation to an EU regulation of 2007 on bus and passenger transport on the rails. One could now say at the first moment that it may be a dry topic. What's interesting about that? – Just, it's not really that dry. It is about a low-cost and high-quality supply of transport, by bus and rail. We carry these legal adjustments because they give security in concession applications, in terms of deadlines and, of course, at the end of concessions. We have also carried this Committee statement with the recommendation catalogue. According to this, in the countries a place for transparency is to be set up. the collection of all the resources allocated for this regional transport. Now, of course, the citizen might wonder what this is needed and what it is all about, because there is federalism and the countries are well placed. - That's not the way it is. Federalism has not only positive sides, it has its critical pages. That's what it's all about. What has the experience of recent years shown? – Let’s look at, for example, the federal state of Salzburg or also awards in Upper Austria. What was the most important thing in that? – It was that buses have a new color! It's very important. For the customer, it does not matter whether a new licensee comes for a particular bus ride area. For him, it is important how the bus drivers now look and whether they know the area or not. In fact, stops were left out – especially critical in school breakfast and afternoon traffic. It is therefore very important for the federal government to comply with its directive competence here and to create a supervisory law that clearly tells the countries what it really is about. It's not about complying with any CO2 limits. It is not about sending ghost buses with empty kilometres through the area, as is the case at present. We expect something to happen for the customer that he has his train and bus on time. We expect the train and the bus not only to be on time, but also to be cheap. This also concerns, for example, the parallel traffic of bus and rail, which has been prohibited by law so far. Some of the country's princes simply believe that this must be the way they are allowed to drive. - No, that's clearly forbidden by law. We expect this to be clearly prohibited in the future. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Clearness and transparency are one thing, but we must not expect the citizens to read 40 or 50 pages of contracts per state. We believe that it is necessary that these bodies, which put up the funds transparently, clearly state the benefits and disadvantages of these contracts, not only for the service providers – that is, bus companies and railway companies – but also for the customer. One should then clearly see what the advantage of the new Treaties is. As long as this is not given, it doesn't make any sense for the citizen. We therefore say yes to this law, Yes to these directives, and we hope that the federal states too are so far to implement it in this sense. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e16337	Next speaker: Mr Heinzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e16358	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! According to a survey by the Österreich Verkehrsclub, three quarters of all Austrians have a bus stop, literally right in front of their own doorstep, around less than 500 meters. Over 90 percent of all Austrians have a stop at least in the vicinity of their residence – about 1,500 meters. This dense network is clearly reflected in the user numbers of public buses. A few more numbers: About 600 million people travel by bus each year, 335 million of them directly by regional buses. Therefore, it is truly no exaggeration to say that the regional bus is very, very important for people's mobility, especially for students, commuters and older people. At the same time, there is certainly still potential in bus transport. Let me give you an example. In my home town of St. Pölten, the bus system was completely reformed a few years ago, placing great emphasis on quality, simplicity of use and so on. Already in the first year, the number of passengers increased by 40 percent. Since then, there have been more people using the bus every year. In the previous year, 4.5 million people were already using the city bus, with a population of just over 50,000. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe this and other examples confirm what experts say that passengers simply use the public when they have a high quality, reliability, service and a good supply of information. The tendering by the public hand shows – that is important to me – that the cheapest bidder is not always the best bidder. If an operator wins a call for tender, which was 5 percent cheaper, but whose driver does not even know the route and does not provide information for passengers, then no one is helped – quite the contrary, of course, the number of passengers is falling. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, it is very welcome that all the political groups here in the House, as part of a committee statement, would ask our Federal Minister, Mr Alois Stöger, to draw up a guide for the consideration of social and quality criteria in the field of bus calls. I assume, ladies and gentlemen, that in the future, the issuing bodies, such as countries, municipalities and transport associations, will follow the recommendations of the Minister and will follow the recommendations. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e16401	The next item is the speech by Mr Willi. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e16422	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen here and at home on the televisions! I take a short look at the two laws on which it is initially about: the motor vehicle law and the public transport law. We're both going to reject it because we're not satisfied with half things. Of course it is true, that is a small step in the right direction, but, Minister, I think you are not in yourself for half things. I trust you all things. What is available here, of course, from the time of your predecessor, is a minimalistic adaptation to EU standards. You have missed one thing we fortunately tried to do with a committee statement, namely to anchor in the law that there are social and quality criteria in the tendering of bus traffic. If we are currently looking at the tendering situations, we see that always wins, the wage dumping is. It cannot be in our interest that we as Parliament support wage dumping. Therefore, as my previous speakers have said, we must move away from the low-cost bidder principle to the best bidder principle. First point. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The second point concerns public passenger transport. It has not succeeded in making a truly fundamental structural reform and giving public passenger transport the attractiveness and legal certainty that it simply needs. But now I come to the point that is particularly important to me. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a promise made by Chancellor Faymann, exactly in the direction in which my request goes, and there is a decision from this House seven years ago. I can read to you a small extract of what you decided by a majority at the time. In fact, Parliament called for a federal law to provide “a co-financing” of the federal government for the corresponding extensive network expansions of regional railway projects, regioliner () as well as for tram and O-Bus”. In other words, you have demanded that the federal government, especially the capitals of the state, help the agglomerations to expand their public passenger transport well. That was decided, but never implemented. Now I have thought, let's bring it back in – next start – and now you reject it. That's kind of funny. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] This is a retro-political policy that has been mentioned more often today. So they fall behind the level of 2008. Do you know what the real background is? – The crucial question in Austria is, from when a railway is a railway and from when a tram is a tram. A small example: You will enter Vienna on the Badener Bahn. You enter Baden outside, then sit in a railway, and as soon as you cross the city border of Vienna, suddenly sit in one – exactly! - Tram. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: tram!]] It hasn't changed, but suddenly you're in a tram. Another example: If Mr. Däderle, a very diligent public user, goes from Innsbruck to the Stubaital, then he sits on the tram called Stubaitalbahn, and from the city border Innsbruck he suddenly sits on the railway called Stubaitalbahn. The crucial difference is that the railway is co-financed 50 percent by the federal government, the tram is not. Only this small difference is that there is once a 50 percent federal grant and not the other time. This leads, for example, to the fact that the Vienna – I commend it to them, but as a federal representative I would have liked it to be financed by 50 percent on their subway. This is currently €78 million per year – a nice batch of money. In short – my speaking time is over – what do I want? – I want us to get the same conditions for the conurbations as for the railways so that they can expand their public transport network well, because public passenger transport is usually electrical and extremely efficient. That's what we need.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e16474	Deputies Singer! I don't know how long you'll need. We only have 2 minutes now. Do you want to try? [[Abg. Singer – on the way to the speaker’s desk – nods to agree.]] Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e16500	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen here in plenary, on the gallery and in front of the screens! In the matter itself everything is clear, Mr Heinzl has already explained this accordingly. The two adaptations to EU law bring transparency, clarity and security. That is why we agree to these legislative proposals, and I also think it is important that social and quality criteria be taken into account in the tendering process for bus transport. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to focus briefly on the situation of public transport in rural areas. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: respond to Mr Willi's request! Take a position!]] The government programme mentions the rural area accordingly and emphasises mobility accordingly. Ensuring the accessibility of rural areas is an essential objective. This objective is to be achieved through the development and expansion of public passenger and regional transport. This means that attractive passenger transport strengthens mobility, strengthens rural areas and also means a shift from individual transport to public transport. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Take a position!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] Ladies and gentlemen, at this point I would like to take up a call from the students for the student ticket. Mobility is a cost issue and should be specific to young people. With cheap youth tickets, public transport has already been attracted accordingly in some federal states. As set out in the government programme, it must be further developed. 315,000 students are affected because they are not yet involved in these actions. This leads to an increased increase in passenger transport and, unfortunately, often also to a forced departure into the university cities – a problem of rural areas. An example: For students and apprentices in Upper Austria there is already the possibility of a youth ticket, which can be used by the Oberösterreichische Verkehrsbund ( Oberösterreichische Verkehrsbund) around €60 a year. For students, there is no such possibility. For comparison: The current prices for a semester map of the Oberösterreichische Verkehrsverband für Studenten are in no relation to the youth ticket, because for students who travel from Wels to Linz, it costs 320,60 €. [[Abg. Pirklhuber:... answer to Mr Willi's request!]] Mr Stöger, Minister of State, from my point of view, it would be desirable if the tariff offer were to be made in the public sector. Transport could also be further developed for students. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e16567	I am now interrupting the negotiations on points 9 to 12 of the agenda so that the urgent question requested can be dealt with at 3 p.m. in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[15:01:22]] Request for urgent procedure of Deputies Mag. Dr Matthias Strolz, colleagues to the Federal Minister for Education and Women on the issue of "Dual education emergency in Austria: lack of education strategy and growing budget hole" (4564/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e16603	We come to the urgent debate on the written question 4564/J. As this has now been done to all the Members of Parliament, their reading by the scribe is not sufficient. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e17111	I give Mr Dr. Strolz as the first questioner on the grounds of the question referred for a preliminary ruling pursuant to § 93 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure must not exceed 20 minutes, the floor. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e17150	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Heinisch-Hosek! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Dear citizens on the screens and on the gallery! Today, a urgent question on education is being dealt with; along the educational emergency that we see given twice and that which is becoming increasingly stressful. It is above all the missing education strategy – which I would like to put here today at the heart of the parliamentary discussion – that: Where do we go with the education system? Above all, the growing budget hole in the field of education budget also presents us with open questions – questions to which not only the representatives of the National Council will expect answers, but also, of course, 125 000 teachers, many students, students, because the hole that goes up is constantly getting bigger, as well as the ambiguity. [[President Bures takes over the presidency again.]] Why education and why does it have a high priority for us? Why is this a heart attack for us NEOS? – This has something to do with our human image, with how we see the world, how we see people. We were born in Austria free and equal to dignity. This works in this country, but that is not a matter of course on this planet. And then – that's our conviction – it's about the development of the human being. A child needs roots and wings. I didn't invent that, I stole it from Goethe. For the roots, the families are very important. It is important here that politics takes care of the compatibility of family and profession. For the wings, the education system will have to make a very large contribution, and the contribution it makes in Austria is not large enough. Education for us NEOS is the central key to the development of man, education is the central key to the self-powering of man, for the upright course with which man goes through life. Education strengthens the human potential to take control of one's own life, to shape one's own life and to enrich the life of others. - That's education! Education is, of course, the most important raw material for us – because we do not sit on large oil sources, as we all know. Talents and their finishing through education, which is the most important raw material in Austria – the brain, the talents of the people in this country. [[The speaker holds a plastic brain in the height and then places it on the speaker's sleeve.]] It's a brain for beginners. I don't want to overwhelm anyone. [[Abg. Lichtenecker: (with ironic cheerfulness) Brain for beginners!]] Mrs Minister, if I urge an urgent debate here, I would like to look at two issues: On the one hand, there is an emergency in the education strategy. We all know – without a doubt – that the world is changing very quickly, that we are in a rapidly changing world. All society's subsystems are based on new action strategies, how to deal with these rapid changes and what management strategies are needed. Of course, all their management strategies have been set up, whether they are private companies or non-profit organisations. Seeing that the Austrian school does not and does not want to succeed sufficiently in dealing with social change is disturbing. Why can't you do it? – Because the Austrian school system is caught in old patterns. And why is it caught in old patterns? - Because it's trapped in clumsy structures. Nothing can... – No, these are not speech bubbles! – No, these are not speech bubbles! [[Abg. Darabos: These are speech bubbles!]] [[Abg. Darabos: These are speech bubbles!]] If you say, Mr Darabos, that this is a speech blow, then I simply find it impossible! Why? – You cannot say: These are speech bubbles! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] These are statistics. If a fifth of the 15-year-olds are unable to “read” properly, you cannot lean back boldly and say: You're all right! – I am not willing to accept this, this sausageism in education policy! I'm not. Okay!Unknown term I'm not the only one who says that you have to look at the hidden structures, that's what all the experts, experts say. Why don't you check it out? Do a really differentiated educational discourse! – not the same as the mayor in Vienna, who in passing shudded to a professional group he actually presides over as a service provider. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Call: Unheard]] - Yes, that's unheard of! The Minister of Defense advertises the soldiers, the Minister of the Interior makes advertising for the police, and as a teacher you get a verbal gnackwatch from his servant. That's not how it is! If you are not seriously devoting yourself to this debate, this system will not be better. There is, of course, a distinct culture of instruction and distrust in Austria, and we are subject to a control illusion. In remote places, determinations are made which are then passed on to schools through militaryly inspired forwarding structures, and on site the teacher is the teacher as the commander. – So look at the expert profession pedagogue! And unfortunately, for years and decades nothing has changed. The last school reform is on and on its own 100 years ago – from your half with Mr. Glöckel. [[Speaker looks towards SPÖ.]] But nothing has changed since then. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] – Well, I think that was an important change to bring education to the fore. The inflated bureaucracy is, of course, a result of this mistrust culture. Political interventions are the result of these clustered structures and also an overarching regulatory jungle. The result is disturbing because the results are very mediocre. It is clear to us, I believe, that if, in this medium-sized way – in the international comparison in the field of education – we do not assume that we will play a leading role in prosperity in ten or 20 years' time. It's just not going to work out. That's why we need to look at making meters here. But the strategies are missing. This begins with elementary pedagogy and stops at the universities. There is a lack of clarity in matters of strategic determination everywhere. I can list some construction sites: Elementary pedagogy: There is no clarity as to how to ensure quality in this area. Yes, in quantity, in supply, a lot has happened, but there are still no determined majority and approaches to a federal uniform quality framework law. There are no similarities as to how to really deal with the continuing training of educators in the elementary field. There is also a lack of the approach to contemporary language promotion, especially in the first languages. If you look at the public schools, the transitions: Yes, you have first pilot tests, how you can cut the transition better, more fluent. Only: We are at a point where you can't work with pilot projects, but where you have to look at how you get to the width here, find a smooth transition and get the folk school into focus. Because, of course, a problem of this centenary struggle is: Total school: yes or no? that over decades of ÖVP and SPÖ nobody took care of the folk school. One of them cried praiseably: Total school and everything will be fine! The others said: Devil's car total school! Then they looked at themselves, they said: Well, different opinions, there's nothing we can do, let's sit down! And there are a hundred other construction sites where they could and did not have done something. Only in recent years has the focus been slowly focused on these points, but we no longer have time. I see approaches to improvement, including yours, Mrs Heinisch-Hosek. I'm not saying you ignore it. I'm just saying you have to slow down, even at the ÖVP. Sebastian Kurz has made valuable contributions in the area of language promotion and first language. It becomes particularly distressing – if you continue chronologically – in the transition folk school to secondary level 1: Here tens of thousands of human lives are still bent, people stigmatized. We sort them in good and bad at the age of nine and a half years. Now you can say: That's not true! But this is the case with those concerned: A stamp on the brain, stigmatization for life. The good in the pot, the bad in the jar – and all parents have a stress with it, all parents. Ten years ago I laughed about it, I thought: Yeah, it's not like that! – But, of course, one also has the stress when one's own children come at this age, of course, also all the Members who represent all possible ideological positions. Their own children then poke in the Lycée or in other gymnasiums. – That’s double-beddedness, that’s lying, and we should clean up with that! This means, of course, that you have to come up with other solutions. That means giving up this stupid division, and that also means that you can go an alternative third way, with a real school autonomy, Mrs. Minister. Imagine, there are not two pots, but there are a hundred pots. Then, suddenly, stigmatization doesn't work anymore. Then you can ask yourself: In which pots have you been put at the age of nine?, but it does not result in a stigmatizing disadvantage, because the secondary schools should be as diverse as the talents and needs of our children and young people. – This is the approach of NEOS, with a real school autonomy! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Of course you need a different look at the profession of the educator/edagogue – this is an expert profession! We conducted a survey, and it turned out that more than 1 300 teachers want support staff. That's where we are far behind, Mrs. Minister! 34 teachers and a pedagogical assistant – this means that we are 50 percent below the average internationally, because the ratio is 13 : 1. For the pedagogical assistants, for the administrative assistants, the international average is 8 :1, we are 23 : 1. Expert resources are also wasted in administrative activities. The Court of Auditors has already predicted that millions of people could be saved annually if they were to be picked up. The government has promised it, even the teacher union – nothing happened there! When you go into the New Secondary School and the AHS Secondary School, you can see that the New Secondary School has never had a chance to come to town because it was not “clean” from the process, as it was set up. The ÖVP never wanted them, and the SPÖ somehow pushed it through. And now, after the first evaluation result, the SPÖ looks up with an ideological mood and the ÖVP is pleased that the results are growing to questionable – on the back of the children! Imagine that you would be a educator in a New Middle School! How would it be for you in recent months if you were to be guided in the media and by politicians? – jobs You can imagine how you are a parent of an NMS child, so they are interested in media and education policy! Then you have the feeling that you have made the wrong choice – ten thousand times! We're not coming from the spot. The only consequence of the evaluation study is that you say: Let's not only do these six hours for English, German and Mathematics, but let's also release it for other subjects! – No, Mrs Minister, that is too little consistent! If you trust the teacher's profession as an expert professional, you should also give them freedom and responsibility. Freedom and responsibility means: Let us turn these six hours into an autonomous and freely available quality budget for the school location – and we, NEOS, will also submit the application today! There we can practice a little, we all want school autonomy. But when it comes to the first small step, then fall back into the top-down taxes, into the better knowledge from above, into the regulatory will, because you do not have the confidence that something good can grow on site. But I'll tell you the following: If there is to be a real change in education in this country, then it can only grow from below, then one needs the educators as allies, then one must also take them for full, then one must not treat them as contemptible as they were last treated! On the topics that are structurally and strategicly unclear, such as free schools: Mrs. Minister, I always break my heart when I'm in free schools. There are a lot of free schools, whether this is Waldorf, Montessori or from many other directions. Here you come, and you know what you're doing. You notice? – Especially dedicated teachers who get even less paid than in the public sector; particularly dedicated school lines, mostly for well over 40 hours; especially dedicated parents who want to be involved. Do you know what the response of the public hand, the Republic, to the situation is particularly committed parents, teachers, school boards? – Then pay the crempel yourself! This is structured and reliable destruction of commitment, of resources in this country, at the expense of young people! That's inexplicable to me! Mrs. Minister, that's why one of my 50 questions is to you today: [[I should like to congratulate the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.]] What prevents you from giving these free schools equal opportunities? – Of course, as in other countries, we will see whether they are doing qualitative work. But we can decide tomorrow that they will be given equal opportunities. Confessional private schools receive 80 percent of their costs refunded or paid, namely for staff. The free schools, which are not religious, are reimbursed between 10 percent and 20 percent of the costs. I just got an e-mail from a director I said: Look The urgent request will be made at 3 p.m. She said: It's too late for us, Mr. Strolz! You know why? Because our school has failed, we can't do it alone, we've done great work, but the public hand isn't ready to support us, and we can't! We have done it under public tariffs, under great expense from parents, with the commitment of the school management, but it simply can't be done! Why can't you, Mrs. Minister? - Because you don't want it. That's the point! Because you don't want it because it doesn't want the ÖVP – which I don't understand ideologically at all, if you're committed to self-responsibility. I do not understand this: that civil, civil engagement is so structured and reliably punished! We have a strategic emergency situation in Austria because many issues are unclear or are not decided or badly decided. Of course, we have the fact that you have now entered an educational reform group. In the run-up there was already a so-called expert group school administration, and now suddenly the big throw is to come. At first, I was happy. Why? - Because the title was school autonomy. Then I read the paper, the first 20 pages from the expert paper – free space for Austrian schools – and I have to say: That's why they're coming. This is solid, with commitment and expertise written. – But then come the real inhibitors, namely inhibitors with “e”, and of course these are hammers with “ä”. Why? – Because then one sees that this paper is, of course, a refined task of the national leaders. Mrs. Minister! I'm not quite sure how you put the group together. They gather experts, and up to one person all come from school bureaucracy. What do you think school bureaucrats will write in the sense of a concept? – A bureaucratic concept! They never saw anything else. I would not want to agree on the good will of any of these individuals. If you invite me as a Vorarlberger at 12 years of age to learn language, I can teach dialect and a little high German, more will not go out. If you invite educational bureaucrats to draw up a concept, they will create an educational bureaucratic concept at a very high level. In this concept, the following is stated in page 20: We will set up educational directorships, and there will be the following – before that it is to be said that the education directorship is directly subordinated to the head of state –: The educational directorates are to be responsible for the Director's order, for the teacher's order in consultation with the schools, but the final decision lies with the education directors, for infrastructure decisions, de facto also for discretion expenditure. Now I ask you: If a body directly under Mr Pröll in Lower Austria is responsible for infrastructure decisions, director decisions, teacher decisions and discretionary expenditure, do you think it will be better in this country? – Yes, the same in Upper Austria, the same in Vienna. [[Abg. Steinbichler: Pühringer in Upper Austria!]] Do you believe that a pedagogue, which is particularly committed but has the wrong or no party book, has only some meters in this system? - No! This is a party-political predicament of the Austrian education system. If we go into this direction of decision, Mrs Minister, then I think that this is a bit of a nuisance. I ask you: Are you personally convinced that this is the right thing? I ask you: Where is Mr Faymann, who said in 2010: Don't get in the bag, not with me!Unknown term type: "%s".? Today he goes to his knees in front of the princess. – This is not the case, on the back of the students! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Let us still look towards budget, educational emergency strategic, educational emergency financially! They always say we have a particularly expensive education system. - That's not true. What's true is: Yes, we do take money in our hands, and unfortunately we take more money into our hands in international comparison than the results give. In other words, we are more forward in expenditure than in the results for the education system. That's particularly distressing! It must also be seen that from 1995 to 2011, investment in the Austrian school system fell from 4.2 percent to 3.6 percent as a share of GDP. This is the country's most important resource, and in the last twenty years we have reliably cut down the investment in this resource. Is this for the prosperity and well-being of this society? – That's not going to work out, I'll tell you! According to the media – and I want to be clear today as part of the answer to my 50 questions – a hole of 343 million is already being opened for this year. We now have April, soon May – 1st. May is the day of education for NEOS, because those who define “work” have to look at education today – so it’s almost half the year over, and we don’t even know how much money we’re missing, but it’s probably 343 million this year. I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen: We looked forward to about 57 million a year ago, and the government was on its way. Now we are missing almost ten times the sum, and by next and next year respectively, the structural budget hole is growing to up to 600 million. In conclusion, Mrs Minister, I ask you, because here we need clarity: What measures will be taken to cover you? How does the Austrian education system continue financially? How does the education system continue strategicly? The time has come for you to create clarity here to avoid harm from our children and the youth!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e17367	Mrs Heinisch-Hosek spoke in response to the urgent question. Your speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e17389	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, 50 questions – I will make a great effort, but allow me to say at the beginning that I had a very nice start of the day today, because it must also be possible to talk about education in our country which works very well. We have long been on our way in the area of integration, inclusion. More than a hundred not only educators, even experts are still in the Ministry of Education and are trying to discuss this system, which is quite in a change, namely the system of giving each child an adequate educational place. Three federal states have now agreed – of course, integration, inclusion is taking place in all federal states – to create the framework conditions for the possibility of model regions with inclusion from autumn onwards, so that a subject which is often and often excluded in the general debate on education, namely not allowing children to be discriminated against can be living practice. In 1986, the Austrian education system in terms of integration with a school attempt in Burgenland was set in motion. Yes, school tests are still available, but school tests are the only way to develop the existing system before it is introduced into the general system, the only way to test things that can then find their place in the regular school system. Education has been published in figures today. To this end, I would like to say that inclusion is an important issue and that the diversity of education, from severely disabled children to heavily gifted children, forgives the diversity of education She has this saloppe expression, it is only symbolic – that all children can find space in this system. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Education at a glance tells us that we have seen an increase in the number of young people who can prove tertiary education degrees, that we have described the New Middle School in a very positive light, that there has not only been an exchange of door signs, but that more students of the New Middle School create the transition to a higher school and that 45 percent of the graduates of New Middle Schools also create the mature exam, the Matura. These are figures that are in the rise due to measures such as those with regard to the quality of school that we have established. I have visited Poland, we have visited the Netherlands together, there are many examples from other countries that have and have long installed these instruments, and I would like to say that we are on a good path in Austria. Good thing needs a while, we don't want to lose a generation. The figures speak, I think, a very positive language, but I do not agree to say where we can and must develop the Austrian education system together. We have already set out in the government programme many of the measures that we want to implement during the five years of this legislative period. And yes, in fact – the beginners in the system have already been mentioned – it cannot be that at the age of 6 you will be rated as school mature or not school mature in a single conversation. I would also like to move on to the system and check the school-leaving criteria to see how we can make these entry-levels of children more gentle. But it starts already before; that was already said. We have the mandatory, contribution-free last kindergarten year – a second would do very well to be able to pick up deficits that children can bring with them, not only children who do not have German as a first language and do not rule, but also children who have German as their first language and do not rule in order to create the conditions for the transition to school. Kindergarten and Volksschule are to be seen more than unity; this is also part of the government programme. We can save 2000 school attempts soon if we make the alternative performance assessment for almost 2000 public schools, which are already registered by school now because they want to live because they want alternatives to the grade, soon to implement. That is, the system has long been on its way. One area in which there has been more cumulation and a greater majority in the system since 1962 is the school administration. This is quite critical; this concerns the second part of your remarks, Mr Strolz. It is necessary that we also seek simplification in the school administration. And that's what we need. There is now a discussion paper on the table, which is not the first in this way. The working group dealing with the school administration has worked through all the existing proposals to put on the table a compatible paper, such as one can create another, another, a new compensation. This debate paper is now being examined, and I will come to the point when answering the questions. Existing proposals by IHS, WIFO and the Court of Auditors have been used. On the other hand, there are enough pedagogical concepts that we can also use, because education reform is more than just an administrative reform, which we can use until 17. In November, the Council of Ministers adopted a decision-making document, including, of course, all but for the time being, in preparation of three technical working groups which must first review feasibility and financial feasibility, consider the constitutional provisions. You can't change this system that easily. It is a system that has been growing for more than 40 years and is quite inconspicuous, which needs to be deflated so that what is to happen to the children can really be implemented as best as possible. Of course, the involvement of the parliamentary parties is planned, quite clearly, and we will do so in due course. Nevertheless, I am part of the state education system. I believe that it is a task for all who pay taxes, that children are best accompanied from the beginning and not only at the age of 14, 15 or 18, 19 years, when it comes to decisions such as taking a job or pursuing higher education or moving into vocational training. Lifelong learning is one thing that we have already agreed on at the government clause in Schladming, which has been implemented for the next two years and which, of course, has been heard. Learning never stops. I don't want to talk things over, I know it's actually so that we have too many exitrs who don't have the so-called cultural techniques yet so well. But if I look at the Polish education system, where about eight to nine years before we started the changeover of the system, I mean that we are on a good path. There are educational standards there, but there is also a later separation of pupils. That is also something we should, I believe, all of us together think about whether the separation at the age of 10 does not take place too early. But before this question, which we may not be able to solve together in the next few weeks, we should ask ourselves why there is still a very high level of education inheritance in Austria, including the new figures from Statistics Austria, which have now come to the table. Upstairs mobility can only be seen in one third of the young people, i.e. they have a higher educational status than their parents. This is far too little compared with other OECD countries. One reason for this is that we have too few schools all day long. We live in a country of half-day school with afternoon care. Although this increases well, we also take a lot of money into our hands, nevertheless a restricted whole-day school, which is in the best possible case also a common school, namely separation at 14 or 15 years of age, just as many other countries do, as I think, lead to better results. It's important to get started, so we've started, it's important to change without stress, it's also important to be able to finish. It is precisely this educational guarantee, this training requirement up to 18 if one wants to call it so, that is a correct and important approach to not losing so many young people at the interface between the 14 and 15 years of age. It is important that they can also show continuous education careers in order to conform exactly to what our society is, to be a knowledge society, and to be able to apply well what you have acquired. That should be secure and not insecure. That is, I am currently also working on the changeover, so that how we can upgrade polytechnic schools, how we can improve the middle education system. Many things have already been done in the trade school. There, the number of demolitions could be reduced by a third. I think you should give the system some time. Nevertheless, we are acting in such a way that we are trying ad hocly to allow our children and young people the best possible education. I admit that it is a common effort in the government to get hold of this structural deficit, sub-datedness, no question. This is not a phenomenon that has only existed since this year, but it is a phenomenon that has accompanied many of my predecessors. You remember: At the time, the public schools were given two hours, and in reality two hours were saved. This goes back to Elisabeth Gehrer and continued under my predecessor with the debate: How can we, with more time for the children, also convert the relationship between teaching time and preparation time into an annual working time model? This is something for the compulsory teachers, there is not yet for the AHS teachers, but soon it will be for all, because the education of teachers NEW and the new service law will also allow training as a Bachelor and Master for all pedagogical professions to take place at a level similar to that of the same level. We have also created quality improvements in Schladming for the afternoon care, which is growing but still too little. We have also taken school autonomy as an important contribution to this federal-country discussion paper. And I say it again: It is and remains a discussion paper, which is now being evaluated, which will then be submitted to the decision and will not be considered to be given. It should not be said that what is proposed now is being implemented, that is the school administration reform. I believe it is important to have a very clear focus on school quality in the sense of those who accompany children as children are accompanied. The new authority, which can be created, will go to schools and will also review the pedagogical skills and skills of pupils. We have the education standards and the teachers, who, by the way, are always wrongfully referred to as the group that makes life all too easy. The opposite is the case! For 18 years I was able to experience this even in the field of special education. It is true that one does not ‘ leave ’ the students. You take the problems, you take challenges with you, you prepare, you prepare for, you are longer in school than planned. This sad debate at two hours cannot now be what remains of what the Austrian Federal Government has done and I too, as a Minister for Education, would like to bring on the way to making the Austrian education system child-fit. Children's fitness is not yet to be found in every school, but I think the New Secondary School can be seen, as can the flexibilization of the six hours, the exact accompanying as well as these six hours. However, it is not possible at the moment to use Mr Strolz, who is also a quality budget, because we have a establishment plan directive because we have a budgetary right that we must adhere to, because we have to meet the efficiency objectives. I cannot simply turn planning points, which are now planned for autumn, into a budget that I use for whatever. But I can release these hours to the New Secondary Schools so that everyone can go their way in the short-term or gift-making field to bring the children forward as well. I would now like to try to answer the 50 questions in a compact way so that I do not exceed my speaking time. Questions 1, 2 and 3 I would like to answer under one. The latest data on educational expenditure refer to the year 2011 in this international educational statistics. This means that between 1995 and 2011 investment in the Austrian school system fell slightly as a share of GDP, from 4.2 to 3.6 percent. However, in the EU comparison, the usual indicator refers to total school expenditure as a share of this GDP, Austria being higher than the EU average of 3.42 percent at 3.65 percent in 2011 and slightly below the OECD average of 3.8%. It is exogenous factors which determine this decline, but which have their causes not in education policy but in demographic development. These figures represent a smaller number of young people in the total population. The drop in the number of students is therefore the reason that this share of GDP has fallen slightly. In this context, however, there are more relevant indicators, i.e. expenditure per student as a percentage of GDP per capita, and these have increased significantly in recent years in Austria, if I may say so, in the primary, secondary and post-secondary sectors, but not in tertiary education. The data for 2012 is only available in autumn 2015, i.e. for 2013 and 2014 it will be updated internationally. I can't answer that now. Question 4: In order to comply with the payment limits: The education sector is subdivided into 30. According to the Federal Finance Act 2014, originally in the financial year 2014, according to the agreement, Article 15a B-VG, BGBl. I, with regard to the expansion of the full-day school forms, the planned disbursements of 50,2 million for the financial years 2017 and 2018 in the same, planned for them. In addition, a shift of 87.9 million to the first quarter of 2016 has been agreed with the Bundesimmobiliengesellschaft. This concerns the year 2014. Question 5: Coverage of the rent now under way in the first quarter of 2016 is to be foreseen and planned in the Federal Financial Framework 2016 to 2019 in the financial year 2016. On question 6: How much money is missing in the 2015 budget? – They all know the high proportions of committed budget resources. It is currently working on measures in 2015 and a particularly important role will be played by good cooperation between the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Finance in order to be able to handle well in 2015. [[Abg. How much is it, Mrs. Minister?]] [[Abg. Meinl-Reisinger: How much is missing?]] – 343 million, you mentioned it. [[Abg. Stroll: Yes, but you have not confirmed it!]] I have already confirmed this in some interviews. Questions 7 to 11 I would like to sum up, as we are talking about the under-doing, which practically accompanies the educational budget, in addition to that: The development of the educational budget is the subject of an ongoing and intensive exchange, of course initially at the level of officials and subsequently at the political level. The consolidation measures in the federal budget as well as in the UG 30, subheading 30, are a joint project – visible even now in the creation of the federal financial framework. And valid forecasts of expenditure in the education budget for the years 2016 to 2019 can only be made after the agreement of the measures we are currently working on. I can only make a budgetary assessment. On questions 12, 13 and 26: These are personal questions to colleagues in government. I therefore ask you – and for this I ask you to understand – to address these questions to the persons concerned. On questions 14 and 15, which I would like to answer together: The establishment and composition of an expert group on school administration was a joint mission by me and all educational councils. That was decided there too. The choice of persons was made over the countries and over the federal government; four were mentioned by the countries, four by the federal government. The contract was a implementation-oriented concept in the areas of administrative simplification, job orders, personnel management, school buildings and school autonomy on the basis of already existing models – I have mentioned: IHS, Wifo, KDZ, Court of Auditors. Questions 16 and 17 I would like to summarise: The involvement and information of all school partners is ongoing. In the framework of the bodies for this purpose, the discussion paper was as informed as we are constantly informing each other about the latest developments in meetings. At a meeting, for example, I also spoke with the Parent Advisory Council, which focused on the topic of school autonomy, and the present paper “Free Space for Austria’s Schools” was discussed in numerous discussions with the parents’ representatives, students, teachers’ representatives and teachers’ representatives and external experts. On questions 18 and 19, which I would like to sum up: This discussion paper “Free space for Austria’s schools” is a compromise-oriented proposal for a new division of tasks between the federal government and countries in the field of school administration. The paper now needs to be examined, which is not a final paper, which is implemented, but rather, in detail, reads: The Education Reform Commission, which was formed in Schladming after the ruling of Schladming, decided to set up a technical working group which, in turn, had three subgroups: Finance, pedagogy – especially school autonomy – and legal questions – are active. Until the middle of the year, we will meet again, an interim report will be submitted, and until 17. In any event, November must be on the table where everyone is involved, which will be presented as a statement of intent to the Council of Ministers. Questions 20 and 21 I would like to summarise: This discussion paper “Free Space for Austria’s Schools” provides proposals for a control system that is holistic, consisting of three parts: more autonomous design opportunities at schools themselves, a strong central strategic control by the federal government and decentralised regional services for autonomous schools. These are the three areas that have been prepared in this discussion paper, which we now have to examine, and which are then assessed politically. The possible impact of the proposals will be reviewed in these days, weeks and months. On the question 22: I have to assume – as the head of the department, I have to assume – that orders of any kind in the school sector are now carried out in accordance with objective criteria. In my area of competence, I can assure you that will be reviewed regularly. All who are subject to proceedings, of course, have the opportunity to complain. I believe that this will lead to maximum transparency even now. However, the paper proposes a uniform procedure in accordance with the tender law, i.e. to regulate the ordering procedures uniformly across Austria. I also wish for uniform and clear standards for infrastructure decisions. This is also mentioned in this paper. Questions 23 to 25 I would like to summarise: This paper “Free Space for Austria’s Schools” explicitly recommends that the education system should not be relocated. It leaves open what final forms of organization there may be. At present, the technical working groups I have mentioned are being examined. In the first place, it is a matter of increasing the number of opportunities and well-accompanied pupils. Question 26 was answered together with questions 12 and 13. This is the personal response of other colleagues in the government, and I would ask you to address these questions to them. I can't answer that. On the question 27: I do not think that a “carrier model” in the sense of a privatisation of the school system makes sense and will not exist with me. On questions 28 and 29: At the Schladming clause, it was agreed to set up a so-called Education Reform Commission. What does it consist of? – Four representatives of the Länder, four representatives of the Federal Government. On the side of the federal council are Minister Ostermayer, Minister Mikl- Leitner, State Secretary Mahrer and I. On the side of the countries are the national leaders Niessl, Pröll, Haslauer and Kaiser. It is, of course, a representative group, which sees itself as a political body and of course serves other experts and stakeholders. Question 30: The process design is clearly appropriate. Overall, it can be said that at the beginning of the process, a group of experts made recommendations. These recommendations include, for example, the proposals for the Court of Auditors and other proposals. The technical working groups shall examine the feasibility. These are both constitutional provisions and financial reviews, as well as the question of what can be done at school autonomy itself with administrative units to be defined. At the end of the process, there are, of course, political discussions with all the parties in this House, because constitutional changes also need to be made if we are to approach parts of the paper. On question 31: If that means that there is planning security, then the answer is yes. Otherwise, I would ask you to clarify this question of comprehensive process integrity. As far as safety is concerned, I can answer this question with Yes; if it is meant differently, I ask you to clarify it. On questions 32 and 34: The feasibility of this proposal will be examined. As a result, we will, of course, approach you all. On question 33: I'm not an educational spokesperson of an opposition party. On questions 35 and 36: External experts are involved. The involvement and information of the school partners takes place within the framework of the bodies I have already mentioned. On the question 37: Yeah, they're constructive conversations. We're in the middle of it. On the question 38: The technical working groups work very regularly, meet regularly, and until 17. Finally, we want to be able to present something to the Council of Ministers in November. Question 39: In addition to the school administration issues, the Education Reform Commission will also address general educational issues. Education reform is not a school administration reform alone, that is more. I expect, of course, an increase in the effectiveness of the education system, an increase and also an improvement in the results of the individual groups of students and a simplification in administration and the lifting of efficiency as well as an increase in effectiveness. I would like to sum up questions 41 and 42: Education can be seen in a comprehensive understanding and begins, as you and I have already mentioned today, in elementary education as the first very important central educational institution. Therefore, both must be speeded up, both quantitatively and qualitatively. The second kindergarten year – free and mandatory – belongs to just as much as to national quality criteria. I would like and will very much support the Minister of Family Affairs so that we can work together soon – we have planned it in the government programme by 2016 – I would rather be able to create and create this uniform quality framework at the beginning of 2016 than at the end of 2016. On question 43: To further develop the folk school is my intention, is also enshrined in the government programme. At the Schladming exam, the school entrance phase and the linguistic support were held from the beginning, and they are being further developed. There are now 79 network projects in which it is worked very intensively. And we are just trying to coordinate with the countries who need which changes of legal nature are necessary to ensure data exchange. Now it is necessary to agree with the parents that data are transferred from the elementary educational institution to primary school, to primary school. That should be automated. We should be able to automatically take what children bring to school in order to ensure this overall view. An alternative performance assessment – I have already said it – also belongs to this, not only in the third class, as the government programme says. I would like to see this for the whole age of primary school, but it depends on what we can agree on. On question 44: The key consequences of the evaluation report are to strengthen the school autonomous scope of schools and to secure the resources necessary to implement the pedagogical concept of the New Middle School. I am very glad that in the coalition we have decided to make these six hours available flexibly, with a very close monitoring of how these resources are used, and also to evaluate how quality increases are reflected in results. On question 45: It's about the quality of the class. The six additional hours are therefore exclusively devoted to ensuring quality and ensuring the provision of instruction. This should logically reach 100 percent of the child and lead to performance increases and improvements – both in the one and the other, gift promotion as well as in deficit orientation. A direct contribution to ensuring the quality of teaching, where schools can now decide, within the scope of the possibilities, really autonomously, for which objects they use these resources for optimal purposes. In my opinion, this is a real and important contribution. As I said, quality budgets are not possible at the moment. To make the six hours directly available to the children I think is the right way. I have answered Question 46 together with Question 22. I would like to sum up questions 47 to 50: The primary focus is in the public school system, I'm going to call it. In the context of the possibilities, of course, it is so that I can also finance schools free of charge. During the last two legislative periods, the promotion of schools was gradually increased and finally doubled. Despite consolidation of the federal budget, an amount of €4.5 million is still available for this. In addition, schools free of charge may make use of funding under Article 15a of the Agreement for the extension of afternoon care granted by the Offices of the Land Governments. Private school regulations: Here, the federal government takes over the funding of teachers from private religious schools. At other private schools – first to ninth school, including pre-school, including on the basis of educational documentation, where no subsidy can be obtained from the federal government, these staff costs would be estimated using the current establishment plan directive with around €660 national instructors and around €37 million, because you asked for the costs. No data are available in the Federal Ministry of Education and Women in respect of the current cost of teaching per student at the relevant private schools, provided that the trainees are not public servants. I do not know, therefore, which persons are employed in the schools under which they are employed free of charge. That is why I cannot deliver any figures on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e17576	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes, with each club having a total speaking time of 25 minutes. First of all, Mrs Mag. Meinl-Risinger. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e17603	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Thank you very much for the reply, Mrs Minister. I asked again because we did not understand this acoustically – € 37 million. Why is this so urgent in our eyes? – It was the first time – you said you confirmed it in an interview – you have now said to the House for the first time on demand and found that these € 343 million are missing. I would like to follow up on what Mr Strolz said: Please do not forget that last year we debated over €57 million for weeks. Now these 343 million € are missing, in the room – and this is answered in an additional sentence. That's actually pretty puzzling. It is also discouraging that only the answer came to the question of how you deal with it: an exchange with the Minister of Finance or the already known support of the BIG. This hole is dramatic and threatening in the current situation of the education system. I also find it threatening – and I must say so – that today we are dealing with the principle question: Where should the trip go?, have heard a lot – and yet nothing. Part of this urgent request was: What's your concept? – I find it depressing and threatening that we have heard much from the reform groups, from the working groups, from the screw here, from testing – yes, but the principle answer to the question of where the trip is to go has not come. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: But you asked!]] You have also said only half a sentence to that effect, namely: What to understand You're under school autonomy? You have spoken of three working groups, and school autonomy has only occurred in one, namely in the field of pedagogy. And that's too little for us, Mrs. Minister! School autonomy, comprehensive school autonomy means having confidence in schools, in school locations. And then we are not only talking about the lightest and naturally necessary step, namely the pedagogical didactic autonomy, but of course also about the budgetary and human autonomy. If that's not going on now, we'll just turn back to little girls and we won't be able to go any further, let alone 100 meters, as we would have to do. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] I would like to address one aspect of the question response because I sometimes wonder in which parallel universe school administration, school policy, education policy actually happens. – You said on the question of party book orders: You must assume that orders are made objectively. Mrs. Minister, we now even know from interviews by the Lower Austrian head of state Pröll that – he says so – party political occupations will no longer be as possible, so this is an issue. If you may take a step out of the high house or out of the ministry, you will see: That's everywhere, in every federal country a topic. Every parent, every student, every teacher / teacher knows that this is a very good topic. That means I'd feel more comfortable if you assumed it was so, and put it all to the point that it can't happen anymore! [[Congratulation with NEOS, FPÖ and Greens.]] I would like to address one aspect of the education system – it is part of our urgent request, a part that is especially dear to my heart. I have published a brochure with a comprehensive reform proposal, solutions in the field of elementary education: ‘Education from the beginning.’ This is actually the root of the education system, and I would like to address it here. I know you are not responsible for this, but I think that is part of the problem, and I would like to address it later. If you look at the tests – PIRLS, TIMMS, PISA and so on – you can see that we are ultimately continuing to carry on the problems we face at the point of sea from kindergartens to public schools; that the problems that exist with risk groups do not actually improve significantly through the school system. That is, the more important it is to bring about a paradigm change and say: Of course, the kindergarten is the first educational institution. Of course, we have to focus on this, because everything we do there, what we invest in the children there, takes it along the way. What we promote early, we promote efficiently and in the sense of the children. I think there are several steps needed to get to this mentality change; a little something has also been mentioned. You have also said that you support many of these goals, you have also said good thing needs while. But you will also understand that patience is at the end of our lives, including with colleague Musiol. We play in the Family Committee “And daily the Murmeltier greets”. If everyone in this House knows what to do in the field of childcare, elementary education, this first educational institution, including federal uniform quality standards, a genuine, binding education federal framework plan, then I wonder, we are the High House or we are a debate club, because we have the opportunity to bring about the necessary legal changes that will finally come into existence, because of course we need this federal framework plan very urgently. [[In the case of NEOS, MEPs of the Greens and the Agg. Doppler.]] The second step, and that is very important, is to rethink training. We are actually at the end of Europe. It is Europe-wide standard for the training of kindergarten teachers to be carried out at a tertiary level, at least for the head, for the management function in kindergartens. We know that we have thousands of pedagogs in every year – I do not know now; unfortunately, I have to say – between 14 and 19 to train BAKIPs, but we also know that only a third of those go into the profession. Now there are these very successful colleagues, but it is necessary to maintain this BAKIP standard, even though we know that a maximum of only one third of these graduates then pursue this profession, because it is actually the only form of school where we can even join these colleagues. The conclusion is: We urgently need a training reform that applies throughout the country. We need national training standards for this profession. It is not, in fact, understandable that we do not raise to a tertiary level the area where the roots of the education system are concerned, namely elementary education. The third point concerns the major question of language promotion, particularly in the conurbations. I mean this not only in a migrant context of language promotion, here is a lot on the way, I know, but it is nevertheless an essential approach for us to get away from the deficit orientation, to a promotion in the mother tongue, because it is essential to build on it. In short, I'll put this together again: We need a mentality change. This is a headline on all the points I have brought today, but also, of course, this urgent question. There is now a need to launch a comprehensive reform, from kindergartens to college, otherwise we will, unfortunately, debate God's same again in 30 years. And that's unbearable for us. I mentioned it earlier, elementary education is the first educational institution, and I would therefore like to make the following request today: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e17690	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e17776	Next speaker: Mr Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e17797	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In order not to give a false impression, I would like to express myself here, not as an educational speaker, but from this point of view, from our educational spokesperson Elisabeth Grossmann, who unfortunately suffered an accident and yet more seriously injured than originally assumed at home must guard the bed and will be left out a little longer, all wishing for good. [[General condolences.]] I am convinced that Mr Grossmann is looking at the debate on television, and I hope that if I can speak for her here in return, I will find her words in about the same way, even if everyone takes his own words. The “ship” education is a huge steamer, as we all know, and the course changes only completely, very slowly. This is true now, whether or not that is desired. Even things that we decided years ago need their time, and those we will decide in the future also need their time to work. I also agree with all those who say that we still have to change course in many areas. In part, we have already made some adjustments, and I would like to point out that it is often pretended that nothing has happened but bad and as if it were a miracle that we do not have loud illiterates. The education system is often spoken so badly. That's not the way it is. You know, we have introduced smaller classes, jointly introduced them, with a maximum of 25 in order to create a better individual care if possible as a first step. We have introduced the education standards and the new Matura, because we want to strengthen the competences here, because we want to know – and we also want to work towards them very specifically in schools – where a child of ten years of age or 14, 15 years of age is about to stand and, if it leaves the higher school area and goes to the university or to another field of education, which children, students and students should have acquired until then, in order to make it comparable. These are very important areas – up to the new teacher training, which is already taking a lot ahead of what will come first. The training is starting now, and it will take a few years for the new teachers to actually be in class and until the results become effective, but it was and is very important that you have set these courses, even if you know they will only work in a few years. This, of course, involves some of the changeover challenges that we know about – there are the problems, and there will be some. I have so many key experiences. I am convinced that the vast majority of educators are in the best way and have deliberately chosen his profession. But there are also some, we must admit quite openly, which are not necessarily the most ideal and best occupations. That too must be said. And I also know that there are individual cases, including in the New Secondary School model, which do not implement this as we have planned it to be pedagogical. This also takes its time until it is truly widely implemented until all those teachers who have also enjoyed appropriate training are present. The final results will still be waiting for some time, but they will be sustainable, important and correct. Where do we see from our point of view the need for action, in part urgent need for action? I can only mention a field briefly, because my controversies will then be particularly concerned about it. What is often forgotten in educational discussions: It's supposed to and must be the child's focus. [[In the case of the SPÖ, the members of the FPÖ and the Agg. Stroll.]] We talk about teachers, and everything is made possible, but it is often forgotten that everything we do and do is actually about the child. An important problem, which a colleague of mine will also address, is early promotion. It has already been mentioned. Unfortunately, this is not – I am pleased that Mr Rosenkranz has applauded here – a federal competence, and here we have the big problems. The Minister with her place of business is also trying to do everything with the other regions concerned to improve the situation in the countries through complicated 15a agreements, because we know that there is the biggest deficit. Colleague Strolz has brought out an attack on a human brain here, and it is indeed like this: At Maria Montessori and others earlier, one has had the feeling that looking into the soul of the children. These things are confirmed today by modern brain research. Today, you know what everything is doing in this age range and that just as the biggest deficits that adults have can be solved almost easily when you know how to do it. In the same way, it is also with gifts that one can recognize and specifically promote. We know that when children come to school, they show a difference in the level of development of over three years. In part, they train at the age of six, because they are compulsory, and have the level of development of a three-year, as far as concentration, attention et cetera is concerned, which can be measured. That is why the central challenge, which is also part of the Minister's and Government's approach to strengthening public schools, is very important. We need to strengthen early promotion so that we can reduce deficits as early as possible and as cost-effectively as possible, now economically, because later on we do not have the effect of these deficits, but we also need to strengthen public schools so that they can deal with these different conditions in particular. A second area: It is still talking about the interface in the public school sector rather than the transition when the children leave the public school. The former Minister of Science once said it very aptly: Actually, we want the gymnasium for everyone. – Yes, the best promotion for everyone. We don't need an interface, we don't need a cone that you drive in – what we need is that we finally look at the new pedagogical findings, for example, that children often learn best from children. Parents of several children who are gifted differently know this for a long time. I don't need scientific research. Children learn best from children. On the topic of social learning, inclusion, integration. Yes, why not allow even weaker young people to share this later generation of social learning with children with shortcomings? By the way, something that is very important in the context of recruitment talks: social competence. There are also models for this. As we are doing – and as my appeal goes primarily to the ÖVP – this cannot work optimally, with four different types of school, with primary school, if there is still, New Secondary School, AHS Sub-Level – of course, the high-level gymnasium should remain in the upper level, that is no question at all – and with special school, with all its inspections. There is a district school inspector, there is an inspector for religion, for gymnasiums, whatever, a national school inspector, one for compulsory schools – and so on and so on. And they all need superior inspectors! Until the money arrives where we want it, we've divided it into four school types. There is no country around the world with a comparable system for secondary education 1, which are the 10- to 14-year-olds, where so much money is put in and so little comes out of PISA! That is why we need to see that we do what others have been doing for a long time. We don't need to look at Finland, that's enough South Tyrol. They have had these integrative models for years and also achieve the best results with them because they can be used precisely and target-orientedly to promote talent where they have their talents, and to promote weaker where they have their weaknesses. This is the goal of a common school: not to divide or to let good, talented people not to move forward. They're making their way. What we need is a common path that we should go here. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Therefore, my appeal is also that the model New Secondary School is not spoken badly. – by the way, a sentence as an additional remark: The former Minister of Education, of course, wanted to complete the school attempt as a school attempt with the evaluation. It has already been Mr Amon and colleagues from the ÖVP who have said that we want this to be comprehensive, not an extension of the school experiment. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: What? But that's new!]] We want this across the board, the ÖVP has said – and overnight there was the agreement of the Minister of Finance that one can do the same. Therefore, I would find it unfair now to do what you wanted to do, especially when the criticism comes from this side, to make it bad now or even to put others around. This model shows good approaches, and here too it will show the time when I am convinced that the deepest conviction is that we need a general change of the system. Finally, a sentence on school autonomy. The Minister has said perfectly correctly that this is a first paper with important key points, which is now being discussed. I am also here for that path that goes very strongly towards ÖVP: federal, subsidiary. Why not move resources to the school location, as other countries like Finland do? Each school location can best judge for itself in its own responsibility, together with the municipality: Where does day care need? Where does it need integration, and how do we shape it? It is best to assess how best to limit working time and teaching time, because there are different challenges at a school with individual classes. This is something we still need to discuss in the context of a discussion: Why do we need an interconnection with any other bodies? Why not give the means, every euro, every cent, where they should be, as directly as possible to school, directly to the child, to promote the child? I believe that the debate is only open and not complete. That is why I would also like to say to the consolation of the NEOS colleagues that the discussion is under way.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e17858	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to come to the conclusion.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e17873	I come to the conclusion: I can only invite colleagues to take advantage of the opportunities given here to benefit from the financial opportunities. We have enough money – it will need additional budgeting in the short term, because we cannot change from today to tomorrow, but we have enough money in the long term, if we set the course correctly, that we can guarantee that no child will remain on the line in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e17901	The next item is Mrs Jank's speech. I'll set you a voluntary speaking time of 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e17924	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Mayer, I am already with you that we should change something at the lower level, but I think there should be more differentiation, just as the colleague Strolz did – I am entirely with him – and not less. I mean, there is a need for diversity because people and children are diverse and different, and so it is not the same thing for everyone. That is why we are well advised when we are also discussing this, and we are currently discussing it. I would like this to be seen and recognized. We have responsibility. We have responsibility for our children who grow up in a very complex economic system and in a system of change. And I hope that we will soon get under control of political changes – terror, wars, refugee disasters. This needs people who are well prepared for life, and we need not only the best possible but the best armor for it. School, education and training are a key factor in this. Yes, we need more education and we need more efficiency in education. 10,000 young people leave school every year without a degree and with very difficult CVs thereafter, as we know. The unemployment rate among these school dropouts is 20 percent, equivalent to a doubling in the last ten years. So no good conditions for these young people. But there are other challenges: Six out of ten kindergarten children do not speak causally, so mother tongue German. But also Austrian children – the woman minister has also mentioned it herself – often have difficulties with the language. This means that they all need special attention especially at the beginning of their education career, and we also need to create the framework conditions for this. Because if the start isn't going well, everything else will be difficult afterwards. It becomes cost-intensive, but it also causes a lot of frustration among children, teachers, parents. All of this before an economic change that runs under the tag “Industrie 4.0”. We are in the so-called digital age. We are facing a complete change in the production and service sectors and rapidly increasing competition with other countries, such as China – countries that have long been the ‘workbench of Europe’ but are investing a lot of money in research and development today, because they are no longer satisfied with copying technologies from Europe or America. We therefore bear responsibility, responsibility for how we shape these changes, as we ensure that Austria is among the richest countries in the coming decades. The Federal Government has set itself on this. I want to do this now, because I think it is necessary that this can also be heard or read or watched by a wider public. I am referring to the six-point programme of the government in Schladming. In the agreement in Krems, the government then continued to deal with the areas of German prior to regular teaching, strengthening political education and communication of values, and under the heading – the Minister has addressed it – “Free space for Austria’s schools” discussed the main changes in the school system once, in internal discussion, in order to derive from this action. Our education is to be free in design, uniform in principles and narrow in implementation. ==References====External links== November. So, as we have seen in the past, all the dates that have been aviated have also been observed, and I firmly assume that this will be the case in this case too. What are the objectives set in detail? I already have a little the impression that we have to do much more public work there. The six-point programme is a comprehensive consideration of the educational career, from kindergarten to adult education. Education begins with the smallest. We agreed that children will have an individual and holistic support, that the last kindergarten year will be included in the initial school phase, that children with language support needs receive intensive courses – €45 million will be invested – and that joint education and training measures for kindergarten and folk schools will be implemented. From the beginning, we set a clear focus on the needs of children. Ms. Minister, you have addressed the expert paper “Free space for Austrian schools”. The results of this initiative will be discussed in three working groups: Education and quality assurance, financing and controlling as well as legislation and administrative reform. This is now being discussed, this paper is not yet the end of the flag rod. In my view, the key task is to get to an autonomous school step by step, and I would like to briefly outline what my idea of autonomous school is: The Federation shall specify the educational objectives and content and review the achievement of these objectives by means of a uniform quality framework and uniform quality standards, and shall report to Parliament. The schools are educational, organisational, human and financial autonomous. [[Congratulations on MEPs from ÖVP and NEOS.]] If we put these measures in place when we work in this direction – and I can also understand that not everything can succeed at the first blow – if we get there step by step, we have achieved that turnaround that needs to meet today’s requirements. Then our children have the opportunity to shape their future enough because they are well prepared for it because they have been led to independent thinking and action, because they have been enabled to do what they think is right, not what others think is right and what others say. In the sense of our children and all of our future, it is more than time to quickly develop and implement these measures.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e17964	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e17985	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! To talk about education here in the House is a good concern, and therefore thanks to NEOS, who also showed us how a “brain for beginners” could get lost in their club – why? We have heard a number of other things about education today. What have we heard in the debate on smokers or non-smokers? There, Mr Mückstein said of the Greens that we already have to make life-competence programmes in the kindergarten in order to open up the addiction at home, the parents. You still need the diapers, but you will have to make life-competence programs – very interesting! We have heard from the working groups in the various contributions that have already been made. It's nice that what Mrs. Schmied has begun is going to continue with you now. The working groups from the Minority Square have always developed papers, which then came to the stakeholders in the federal states, to the Stakeholder Conferences, where they were then compacted. The compact paper has then returned to the working group, where the paper has been again compacted; after consultation with other stakeholders, more compacting will be done again. How did Mrs. Schmied always say? – People need to be involved. I hope that the countless papers that lie in the various drawers of the ministries and cost taxpayers a lot of money will only be made of waste paper. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I have a question on the working groups: Mrs. Heinisch-Hosek, you mentioned a working group in which you and Mr. Landeshauptmann Pröll are inside. I remember a situation when you came out of the door after the efficient work in the working group; Mr Pröll said: Yes, we have talked about the fact that the ministry of teachers is now generally coming to the countries, and the Minister of State has said: There was no such thing in there at all! That's what I'm asking myself: What is being done in such working groups? What people do you need to do something about it? Mrs Bundesminister, which was not addressed at all: We're waiting for the BIFIE Novelle. Didn't it say there would be something to put on the table until the end of last year? It's just not coming. There are Court of Auditors reports, there are evaluations of the New Secondary School. Very interesting by the way: The ÖVP – we have just heard – is due to the fact that the New Secondary School comes into regular school without evaluation. [[Call the FPÖ:Aha!]] The SPÖ seems to have resisted with hands and feet and said: Please don't go to regular school! We have even turned from the SPÖ ads on how good the New Middle School is, we have even called a train on the Westbahn around a few thousand euros “New Middle School” – but please, just not the New Secondary School completely into the regular school area! ÖVP, don't do that! With your hands and feet, you have resisted. Now we have them, with the result, and what does this perfide EIAP make for it? – She says: Something has to change again! [[The ironic hustle and bustle of the Abg. Schimanek.]] So what's wrong with this government? Starting from these working groups with Pröll and Heinisch-Hosek to other things: It's inconceivable what's happening. And I am surprised that this education system in Austria still works: when you see your own children being trained, when you see what teachers there are, who actually stand behind it with body and soul and with whole heart blood – you have to like that too. I would recommend Mayor Häupl to you – and maybe there will be soon: He'd better step back today as mayor. [[Abg. Heinzl: That would fit you!]] Finally, he can follow his zeal at a school or elsewhere accordingly, perhaps in biology he can teach some more. Maybe he can imagine something coming up. This discussion is one of the most disgraceful of all. By the way: Finland has recently been mentioned as a model country. Interestingly, the time in the school class is shorter than in Austria, especially with the Finns. So you can compare what you want, it's only important – and I think all teachers would like to go to their school for longer – that the school buildings finally become so contemporary that a teacher there also has a desk in his, under quotation marks, as Mr. Häupl sees it, “Leisure” so that he can correct or prepare schoolwork there – apart from the factor for the economy, when making a school building offensive. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. El Habbassi.]] One time Mr Strolz spoke very openly and honestly, he said, this debate, the debate on education is actually being held very strongly. I have to say one thing: I understand it when parents look at their children getting the best education, the best education, that there is a “healthy egoism” of parents – under quotation marks. If you don't have billions of money that you give to the children they may be able to celebrate in the second or third generation, then there can only be one thing for the children for a happy and happy life: Education. And that parents, responsible parents, see that there is something like that, I only understand that too well. But of course I have to ask the Liberals at NEOS: Her former spokesperson on the part of the Liberal Forum, the current IV President Kapsch is of course already giving his children to the American school – costing €15 000 per child per year. So that's not exactly what you probably imagine when you say: public schools. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stroll]] And I am a defender of public schools, of public schools – with all the rights of private schools and also of those – without a debate of envy – who can afford it, want to afford it, or anything else. But what is there in Vienna? – From my point of view, this is actually the absolute decline of social democracy. Otto Glöckel was quoted here. When Otto Glöckel looks at the social-democratic education policy, he does not rotate in his honorary grave at Vienna's central cemetery; he has already screwed himself a little further, namely, around a few rows, as he must rotate down there. I bring an example, and I hope that the left half of the empire will forgive me if I quote here from the “Falter” – that is not necessarily my first postille in itself, but you will hopefully believe what is in the “Falter” –: “In a Vienna school on three floors the advantages and weaknesses of the Vienna educational system were revealed. Reporting from an Ottakringer 3-Class Society’. “With teacher Levy in the attic,” – by the way an American – “in the C-classes, just sit who grew up with English as a mother tongue. Or those who were raised in Vienna from a small point of view with an English-speaking Nanny, were sent to the English kindergarten or even brought to the English after-help at the tender age of three or four. A floor deeper are the B-Classes. ‘Se habla español’, one speaks Spanish, stands in colorful letters on the classroom door. ‘Arco Iris’ refers to this school form, in which students receive a visit from the Spanish native speaker teacher in addition to normal teaching. Unlike the English classes, there is no test of suitability for Arco Iris,” says Gabriele Prokop, director of the National School of Autumn Street, “in contrast to the English classes, there is a floor higher than that for Arco Iris.” “Learning another language without being full - souled in the German would only confuse the children.” These ‘non-sattel-resistant’ children sit down in the schoolhouse, in the A-Classes in the Parterre and on the first floor. In these so-called ‘rule classes’, children do not say ‘Hello’ or ‘Holà’, but ‘Merhaba’ or ‘Dober than’.’ This is the school of social democracy in Vienna – and it is also defended. And then there's even another point. On the “day of the open door, ” what is going on in this school? “It’s especially academics who put their German-speaking young people into English classes, doctors, lawyers, freelances or politicians. They are parents who read to the children every day who visit the children's theatre and the Malatelier at the Kunstmuseum. ‘My child is five years old, what can I do to make it come to the VBS class this autumn?’ a particularly dedicated father asks. This is public education in Vienna, which is what you mean by total school and internal differentiation. In reality, it's about you still trying to secure your privileges. You want to create some kind of new nobility you want to achieve through education. And this is what we consider to be free people who want a public school system for all those in which all talents are promoted to be a debate – if I were to say what it actually is, I would get a call for order.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e18095	The next speaker was Mr Walser. - Please. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Madam President! hypocrites, hypocrites, and lies!]] [[Abg. Heinzl: Just take a seat! Take your seat!]] [[Interlocutory calls from MEPs Weninger and Glawischnig-Piesczek.]] Mr Rosenkranz, I think that will be Now you are not particularly surprised – and you have previously announced this –: For all three expressions, I give you a call for order. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: wanted to know!]] Mr Walser is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e18166	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! – Mr President, Mr Rosenkranz, Mr Hohes House also includes a certain form of dealing, so do not try to create artificial calls for order here, and then stand as martyrs, but try to lead the debate objectively! [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: He wanted to know!]] In any case, the other Members of Parliament are always holding debates in the field of education very objectively. We have a topic, Mrs. Minister, which really affects us all very strongly and emotionally – in this case also Mr Rosenkranz – because the conditions in many schools are really sad – I don't want a call for orders, Mr. Colleague – because the conditions are such that teachers cry for help, that parents cry for help, and that students often don't feel comfortable at these schools. Mrs. Minister, you may have the most difficult job in this government. I think it is too much to demand from you a basic school reform as long as you do not even have support in your own party and in your coalition partner one of the most important blockers of what is going to happen in Austria, because the ÖVP is finally preventing the discussion about a modern common school. Mrs Karl has actually tried a little with the gymnasium for everyone to get the discussion started; I felt that was very positive, but unfortunately this failed. Stay on it, it would be urgent to move! Mrs Minister, you yourself pointed out the many construction sites: Elementary education, the administrative reform. These two examples, first and lastly mentioned by Mr Strolz, show the whole dilemma, because strictly this does not fall within your competence. This is the basic problem of the Austrian education system: that nobody is actually responsible – nobody and everyone is responsible. But I have to blame you, Mrs. Minister. The educational budget has been structurally under-educated for years, and for years ministers – your predecessor, you – have not come to terms with the existing budget. What we heard yesterday from the Minister of Finance, what we have learned from the strategy report of the Ministry of Finance, is a general attack on our schools, given the current situation in which you have not yet paid the expenditure of last year, in which you cannot make expenditure for this year, € 343 million. And then you say that we pay everything back in 2016, which means we are going to carry on the problems from last year and from next year to the next year and then, in addition, pay these expenses from 2014 and 2015 – this can never happen! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] You know that the Minister of Finance needs to know, so deal with this problem! This is, of course, mainly addressed to the ÖVP. But what the SPÖ does with its own minister is – carefully expressed – Pharisee. Yesterday, the media analysis was published – I quote now –: In the SPÖ, the Minister of Education fights on its own, not only against the problems that do not end, but also with the lack of restraint from his own party. - Quote. You have to write this on your own flags, because that you keep the minister here in the rain, no one can accept it, who is interested that we are finally moving on with our education system. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Pock.]] And please, it is cynical when, in the light of the discussion at two hours of additional work that we have conducted, the Chancellor says – I mean, you have to let this go on the tongue! – that is no more work, but teachers have to be in class for only two hours. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Wöger.]] One has to consider what the Chancellor of the Federal Republic says: no more work, but two hours more in the class. – This is pure cynicism, which is the case with teachers and leads us to have a mood at schools that is not prepared to tackle the major reform processes now. Mrs. Minister, at the head of the department, we need to announce someone who is energetic, loud and public: That's not how it goes! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We need more money in the field of education and no less money in the field of education, and we must work together to ensure that the priorities are set differently than they are currently set. I bring another quote, and now you have to be careful – please, that's all – because I also have to read this sentence a few times. The Strategy Report states: ‘Exploitation of efficiency potentials in the teaching organisation and/or restructuring of the resource allocation associated with the educational organisation’. I'm free to translate this: We have bigger classes in the future, we have more children in the classes in the future, and we have smaller learning groups. – That means this statement in the government’s strategy report, otherwise I would have liked to hear another interpretation of this sentence from you. However, we need to improve the conditions and not worsen them. Mr. Mayer, you mentioned South Tyrol: Yeah, then do it. You're moving in this direction! In South Tyrol there has been a common school for 50 years, in South Tyrol there are elementary teachers who are trained at tertiary level, in South Tyrol there are two to three teachers in the class. In South Tyrol there is an inclusive pedagogy, all children in South Tyrol are taught together, and – ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP – because you get along with the performance argument over and over again – the South Tyrol students bring much better results than their colleagues in North Tyrol – at the top anyway, similar to in Finland, which has three times more top students, but above all in the less powerful area. The Northern Triroles, for example, have twice as many risk students in the field of reading as they do in South Tyrol. So let us take an example if we do not always want to look at Finland or into the Scandinavian countries or to Holland, where we were together! Let's look at South Tyrol and take on what's good there! We in Austria really don't have to reinvent the wheel again and again and pretend to be going. But it's also in Austria. This is evidenced by many schools that are already trying to implement parts of this concept and do not leave any child behind. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Mayer, I am very glad that social democracy is taking up a saying that I have been using for six years now in every e-mail and time and again: No child left behind! [[Abg. Mayer: Whoever recorded it from whom, let us put it there! Whoever took it from whom, let's put it down now!]] This is the proposal I would make to you: Try to align your policies to make us become reality and really get all children a chance. But you're still responsible for that after 4. Class folk school only 33 percent enter the AHS, only one third that produces enormous stress in these classes. As a folk school director, you know the situation of parents, of course, because everyone wants the best for his child. Let's stop with this nonsense! He's pedagogically unresponsible. He goes at the expense of the students. He brings stress into the families. Let us stop it and let us go that way, which all the reforming forces in Austria want, by the way, even parts of the Freedom Party! Mr Rosenkranz, the whole group of countries in Vorarlberg calls for the joint school. Get in touch with you! [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Yes, that is, I think, an error, Mr Walser! You need to update your...!]] We had an interesting series in the ORF a year ago. The ORF has tried to implement the “School for Life” principle, and has put together students from the New Middle School and the AHS sub-level – with sensational results! After five months, there was significant evidence: The children have more confidence, they have more desire to go to school, the benefits have become much better and integration has taken place as a side effect. All the elements that we want from a modern school have been realized, and what the ORF does with relatively low resources would have to be able to do if we tackle it together. So: Education reform now and not at some point and, Mr Mayer, do not leave a child behind!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e18286	Next item is the report by Mr Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e18308	Madam President. High house! Learning cannot be prevented. I don't know if you have children. But when I look at my own children – they are now 8 or 10 years old – I notice that they cannot be banned from learning and should not. [[Abg. Mayer: Have you tried, or how?]] The question is, what happens when the children come to school sometime and suddenly lose the fun of learning. I think you can compare it with the movemental urge of the children. The children want to move, and they move every minute when they have the opportunity to do so. You can miss it if you direct the movement, the urge to move, in dull lanes by simply letting them run in the circle again and again. You do that a few times, and then suddenly the urge for movement is gone. That's the way it is in school. That is, if one manages to direct the learning will and the learning that takes place in a natural way and works up to the old age, in stupid paths, then the student or the student loses the fun of it. That's the problem we have in school. That's the problem we're seeing. Finally, the children lose what they naturally have, namely to learn the will and to discover new things again and again. In order to implement another way in school, we need a full-day lessons. That is, we want a full-day lesson that allows children to be introduced to the learning content, especially in the sub-level. What we are currently doing is a frontal teaching, not so strong in some schools, but very strong in some schools. If you don't come along with it, you'll simply give it up to learn everything you don't understand at home. At this point the social component comes into play. You, Mrs Minister, were once a socialist, and you would have to be particularly impressed by this teaching to cement the social differences. What happens when a child who doesn't learn what it's supposed to learn at school goes home with the practice of the house and nobody cares about it at home? It happens exactly what we finally see in statistics: Children who have a bad parents' home to care for no one, stay behind, and all those with parents who either have enough in the pear to bring that up, or sufficient financial possibilities, come with them and can benefit from life opportunities that should normally be open to all. [[Call the SPÖ: What is your pear?]] At the moment, we are 3 percent restricted all day lessons. If we don't make it – express it! – to give all children the opportunity to become independent of their parents, then our school system will not get better. That's where the cracking point is, that's exactly where the problem lies! With the tax reform, we have just given €4.9 billion for a tax reduction, which is only €40, 50, 60 per month for some. It would have failed a lot to take a few hundred million to the side and put it into education, because there the money would have really been removed. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Call the SPÖ: Light bulb!]] At the moment, we have a situation where 8 000 students are still out of perspective each year. These are 8,000 people who are lost in the labour market and have actually been neglected by the system. This is a neglect. Just as you urge parents who do not wash their children or give them medical support. This is a depository. Similarly, it is a depository if you do not offer every child the optimal opportunities. You don't seem to want that. They always say: Yes, someday there will be a 30 percent full day school! But that's too little. Jobs Take a look at the back legs and see if you are not motivating the Minister of Finance to finally take money there, where it really brings something and not to distribute sugars because we have elections in different federal states! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] At least € 4.9 billion will be given to the taxpayer on top of it, and you will benefit at € 30, 50, 70 per month, while the really important things will not be addressed. I already said it today: Once again, electorate takes place at voter's expense. That's the problem! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Shopf.]] I would like to address another point. You said today that a well-financed private school, as it works in the Netherlands, which works successfully, will not exist with you. You have said that the model of IV, in which all private schools are supported in a comparable way by public schools, does not make sense and would not be in your hands. But you didn't explain why – because you can't explain it! There is no reason why non-confessional schools should be treated worse than the religious ones. There's no reason for that! The only reason is that you don't want to take away the toys from politics. Imagine that you would promote private schools as much as the public! There would be a lot of private schools, just like in the Netherlands. Remember! They were also introduced there. Now 70 percent of schools are private, and see, even public schools have become better because private schools have been enabled and private schools have given the same money as public schools. That's where it works. But you're afraid of that because politics is losing influence with it. The school is your toy. You can rule in as much as you want. They always prove how funny it is. That's why you don't want to equal the private schools. Private schools like the Swammerln would shoot out of the ground, and quality in public schools would get better because they would have to advertise for students, as in the Netherlands. Can you remember when we were there and asked you how it works if suddenly a private school is there and the public has too few children? [[towards SPÖ]] Do you remember what was answered in the Netherlands? – Then the public schools have to think about it! Look, they have to think about something, they have to get better! That is exactly what has worked in the Netherlands and would also work with us if we were to promote private schools such as public schools. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Then we could finally take away the national heads of state, the union and all the others, perhaps you too, the toy school. There's no reason for you to rule in there at all. Or do you know something you don't know on site? Do you have any secret information about the school in Hintertupfing and what the teacher is doing wrong there? Don't you think that director, teacher, student and parent don't know better together what's needed on the spot? Her job would be to set the educational objectives, as in Switzerland, where the economy is combined with the Minister for Education and each year is considered together, whether the educational objectives are in line with what the economy needs. That would be a good school policy, and that would be your task in itself! But you don't have to give good advice on who's supposed to be a director or a teacher at the school in backstage. [[Abg. Cap: What's the backlog?- Oh, my God!]] You and the head of state don't have to do that. There's nothing left behind in politics! To do this, we need to: However, you continue one step, but you have said that you cannot implement autonomy against the countries, and what you are doing in your mouth. That's the problem! They cannot enforce this against the countries. They're actually out of power. You're out of power, you have no power as a minister. I think you have noticed this in these years, and your predecessor had no power, because, unfortunately, in Austria, the heads of state have the power. But you could do something by building a parallel structure and competing with public schools, namely private schools. Then it will also be better for public schools, and the country heads will have nothing to say. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] One thing is quite certain: If a parent has the opportunity to give the child to a private school that is equal to the public school in which one does not have to get into the bag itself, and this private school is even better, what do you think the problems a head of state with his public school gets? That's what it's all about! This is exactly what has worked in the Netherlands, which would also work here, but you would have to develop a little courage and also go to the Minister of Finance and put it on the table and say: Dear friend, these are the investments we need, and not the €4.9 billion as an election sugar, but you have to invest where it really brings something! That's what you'd have to do! You need a lot of courage to do this. I think you're missing it, but maybe it'll still be.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e18447	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Scherak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e18468	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Col. Rosenkranz has already addressed the topic of working groups and expert groups and said something very right: There are always new working groups, new expert groups, and the question is what happens to the papers that arise from them. However, I see a second problem, and that is what you, Mrs Minister, have mentioned in the answer to questions 16 and 17, which asked how parents, students and students are involved. They said that the school partners were first informed. Then you, I think, once again said that they are being informed, and then you said that they are being discussed. It is a very essential mistake of all these expert and reform groups that those who are really concerned, namely the pupils, whose future is about, are not at the heart of their focus and they have far too little opportunity to speak with them. It's the future generations that stay here on the track. If we do not want them to be explicitly expressed and co-decided, at least the present generation that decides these things would have to take on real responsibility for the future of the next generations. Then we would have to take more money to invest in future projects such as education, research, innovation. Now I'm already clear, something is happening, there's going to be a little bit of an investment, but today we've heard in the question answer again that you're missing € 343 million this year. This is massive and scares me if we already know that so much money is missing in this area. We need to invest much more in the whole educational area, from the bottom to the top. We must take a lot more money into the hands of kindergartens, schools, universities, colleges, pedagogical universities, all of them, and put the whole topic of education at the centre of society much more. This is more and more coming, but only by what is being financed, we see that it is not where it should be. And only then, if we finally focus on what it really is, namely, the pupils and their future, may we finally get away from this ideological debate, whether it is the overall school or the gymnasium. Maybe we can make a clear signal. You've already mentioned autonomy. Beate Meinl-Reisinger has already shown that this is not the way we NEOS introduce us. Now you don't have to lead our idea, but it's not what many of the experts point to, namely this comprehensive autonomy that we need in the field. The few autonomous hours now available will not be enough. What I learned in my school age and also in my time at university is that those who are on the ground, namely the students, the teachers, the professors, the students, know best, how to design the system so that it is right and all know what they should learn. But instead of finally giving educational institutions real autonomy, we have been blocking with the usual things for decades. It is about party-political post-ordering and crusading structures, rather than finally focusing on those who deserved it. Now there is this reform group in the Federal Government. Regardless of who sits in there, the problem is: The reform group is coming only now! – Now I'm clear: They were not always in the government, but red and black have been in government for a long time. In between, there was once another government. The problem is, we've already lost so many young people. So many lives of young people have been de facto negatively affected and destroyed to a certain extent, because all those who come out of school and cannot read meaningfully are walking directly to the AMS. Their ways of life have already been destroyed, and we must finally stop doing so. We finally have to start, and I'm clear: The reform group is a step. But I don't think it's right who's sitting in there. I would have liked this to be broader, and I am not very confident again that something will come out. Every day we lose a young person because we simply do not manage to make a serious contribution to education policy. This is unfair to young people. They also addressed the model regions and said that we must not lose generation. I agree with you in everything and also believe that we can support a lot of what you do. But we have already lost so many, and it is massively unfair to everyone and everyone that their ways of life are destroyed because politics has not been able to carry on for decades. When I look at the federal financial framework, I have to say: Yes, there are investments, but far too few! We need to invest much more in the very important future areas of education, science and research so that the young people affected can benefit from it. We are still investing in the pension system. We have a massive deficit alone through the pension system and notice that the young people still have a massive debt mountain, apart from this shale. On the other hand, we do not even give them the opportunity, through a financed education system, to really learn the skills they need in order to be able to perceive their own future opportunities. Mrs. Federal Minister, this is a robbery of the future opportunities of the next generation – and that has not deserved those we have already done, nor the next generation, nor the next generation, nor the next generation, nor all of them. We must finally do something because every single child we lose through blockade policy and the downside in education policy simply does not deserve it.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e18549	The next item is the speech by Mrs Kucharovich. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e18572	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear students, if any of you are watching! Mr Rosenkranz, first of all: What's worse in dobar than in Hello, Good Morning or anything else? I felt your message was very strange. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: I quoted from the “Falter”! Ask your people from the “Falter”, what they find...! Go to the editorial department!]] To colleague Scherak: Niki, I can support a lot of things you said. Of course, you are also talking about investing more money in these areas. – I can point this out absolutely, but these reforms clearly require capital taxes. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to say something – it has already been mentioned by some previous speakers, but not in the intensity in which the student deserved himself –: It is really significant that in all discussions on education policy very little is spoken of by the largest and from my point of view the most important target group, namely the pupils, the children and young people. What is most focused on? – I have to say quite honestly, even in the NEOS request, the children are very, very short. Where, from your point of view, are the children to have these wings? They are too short – not because children and young people are quieter, but because in the reporting and also throughout the discussion, the administration, teachers and parents are mainly present. It is very important to us in the SPÖ to put the children at the centre. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] Schools, in particular various types of education – whether kindergarten, public schools, new secondary schools, primary schools, gymnasiums, BHS – should really focus on pupils. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] It is important to encourage and support the students, to be unfolded and to make mistakes. – The school should be able to do this too. It is also about asking students how they imagine the school, where they would feel comfortable and what they expect from the school. Ask everyone, we do it, which schools – and this isn't about the type of school – would introduce themselves to children! What do schools need to be able to do, what can we do with it, and how can we do that? Tag ‘sport and music’: Approaches to implement these are available in all-day school forms, where we are really following it because children and young people want to have it. The young people also expect us to implement access to art and culture in schools, and they expect participation. A good story about this: We had the national student parliament here in the house for the first time on Monday. From my point of view, this was a very important access, as was the youth parliament, which always takes place here in Parliament, or even the children's rights survey, which last year was here in these rooms, where the students – including pupils – gave us a backpack of content, which is really to be done, if I may say so. However, we also want to see a body institutionalized here in Parliament, in which children and young people speak as experts and in which they are not exclusively spoken about. Of course, there are also students quite, very central. – That’s what we want as SPÖ. Tag “School autonomy” – in the past a very hotly sought and incredibly often used word –: From my point of view, this does not mean that there is a competition, that you have an advantage if you may live in Vienna-Umgebung and have a disadvantage if you live in the Waldviertel. We are talking about a federal framework and about the fact that school autonomy is taking place in other areas. For me and us, school autonomy also means allowing students to participate. We have to ask them what school autonomy means for them, and we do. I don't know if that's what all the groups are doing – we're doing it. We are also for more participation in the schools in themselves, for student parliaments in which all students have the opportunity to form and share, and not to be excluded. Tag ‘Direct selection of national and federal students’ representatives’: There's no such thing as that right now. It is a very central thing that students can elect their national and federal representatives. That is a call we make. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In conclusion, the words ‘political education’: We want young people to join us. But this also means that we must take them seriously and not only give them hearing but also take their demands seriously. This also means that they should learn critical questions, and in my view this means quite clearly that we must accompany them. This is linked to an increase in political education. We want this more in political education, the students want this more in political education. I would like to appeal to the Minister of Finance to focus on the desire of children, pupils and young people and to make funds available to enable more political education to enable young people to develop critical and self-determined developments. We in the SPÖ are ready for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e18643	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Däderle. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e18664	Mr President. Mrs. Ministra! High house! If one reads the explanation and analysis in the urgent request of NEOS, then one finds some very striking observations. Unfortunately, the whole thing is packed into an alarmist tenor, and thus this request does exactly what it should not do and what it in principle also criticizes, for example the extremely unilateral and terrifying statements of the mayor of Vienna. It does the same by misrepresenting the educational system or the people there, namely the teachers, and pretending that Austria is indeed in an emergency and that the disaster is already over. Also to say that schools destroyed life, Mr. Scherak, that is an immeasurable exaggeration and unfortunately falls into this negative tenor. The Austrian education system is certainly there and there in need of correction and reform, like everyone in the world, but it is undoubtedly still one of the better in this world as a whole, and one simply has to stress that. [[Consistency with ÖVP and FPÖ as well as the Abg. Cap.]] On many levels, excellent things are done, and if you are yourself in practice, as I have been at the university for decades, then you have the comparison. The comparison makes sure and shows that our graduates can keep up with international students, often even better. These bad speeches and this mood of disaster are alarmism and therefore inappropriate. Of course, this appeal is not supposed to close your eyes to reform needs, and it is also true, as Mr Mayer said, that education systems in particular are difficult systems. This has many reasons, including good reasons, because, for example, they have to attach to an educational canon that has developed for centuries and cannot be thrown overboard from today on tomorrow. They are therefore in need, they are slow and because of this, reforms are rather tough, and some are too slow. However, we have taken some important steps and have taken some steps. We are now again in a phase of such reform efforts with the working group which has been set up and which is certainly turning on a key that is important, at a central swivel, namely an enhanced autonomy for schools. This is certainly a very important and correct approach, which gives hope that a lot will change here. Over time, we have made a very dense arrangement, a rigid bureaucracy that needs to be loosened and partially ended in order to create space for initiatives on the ground. Then, too, this tedious hour counting and this tedious measuring in units of value and blocking of all initiatives from below stop because perhaps any unit of value or anything else is not available. This is a very important approach. At least as important an approach has already been mentioned, and I should like to remind him here once again, because I was a co-participants, that is the reform of educational training, also in the elementary field, which is often overlooked. We have also stated that in the law, where we are talking about teaching, we have always referred to elementary education, that is, it is always thought to be taken into account in the law. We have started to do what we consider important, namely to set up the appropriate teaching chairs in the university area. Such chairs will be set up everywhere, studies will follow, and there will be tertiaryly trained elementary education. So there is the corresponding softness. In particular, we have also put them in the education of teachers. The folk school is an important field and is always stressed and correctly recognized as such. By extending the education for teachers at the folk school from three to five years – four years of Bachelor's, one year of Master's degree – it will be possible to acquire exactly the priorities that are needed in the new folk school with a much more heterogeneous pupils' population in study, such as mother tongue skills, socialization and much more. So that's where we're going, you have to see that, of course you have to force it. Especially the implementation of educational education New is not quite easy, since two very different institutions have to cooperate: the educational universities and the universities. There is still a strong support and support. All in all, I very much hope that the working group, which is meeting now and on 17 November, will be able to work together. November 2015 will present its results, which will take very targeted and energetic steps towards school autonomy and debureaucratisation of schools. Then, I think, we have taken a few more important steps to improve the Austrian education system – which is good but, of course, improveable.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e18733	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Hauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e18755	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In today's debate, and I don't understand, I miss realism. Or did I misunderstand that? In the answer to the question we heard that in 2015 alone 345 million € went out in the school budget. There are liabilities to the Bundesimmobiliengesellschaft für Schulgebäude, which are hours. There are infinitely many desires for the education system. A second kindergarten year is to be introduced, so the transition from kindergarten to folk school is to be improved. Additional hours will be introduced and additional money spent on language promotion will be spent. So there are wishes without end, and I may ask you, Mrs. Minister: How do you want to finance this? We are already unable to achieve a balanced budget. We are moving liabilities into the future, and there are therefore permanent new wishes. Now I hear – and I ask for information – that the new approach should be to solve these problems with school autonomy. Does this mean that the school is getting cheaper over school autonomy? Or it will probably be that way, as was the case with the police, for example, if a community in the rural area wanted to maintain a police department that would otherwise have been closed: The municipality takes over the costs for this police department, makes the premises available free of charge to ensure the offer on site? So does school autonomy mean, Mrs. Minister, that in the future the communities will have to take on the tasks which the federal government cannot currently finance? How does this work? – Clear Please, please! We are currently unable to finance budgetaryly the wishes made to the school. So I ask for information, because otherwise this discussion has no meaning at all. A autonomy without money, how is that supposed to work? I always hear: It needs more money. - Yes, where is the money to come from? Is that what the communities pay? Whether the school owners should pay this. There are, anyway, deaf ears when you address this issue as a liberal politician here in the House and say: Why don't we think about how to relieve schoolchildren in rural areas? It can't be like a child who's in a financial weakness. Community is born, a poorer schooling receives than a child in a financially strong community where there is more money for schools. They're different! So, please, how do we solve the problem? I think this discussion, which has been held here today, is a purely theoretical discussion, because from my point of view, the question of how much budget is still available for school life in the future. We know that there was a discussion on the budget framework, that it had to be saved. Mrs Minister, you have remained guilty of the answer: How much money do you have to save? How much more money is added to the pile that is taken as liabilities? – We have a huge sum on Liabilities and on the other hand wishes that are piled up to be fulfilled. How do we put that together? Please explain this to us today or in the future! - I don't understand! That's why I'd suggest: Let us try to do what we can do in the short term! Let's try to do what I've heard all the time today: The student, the child must be at the centre! What can we do in the short term? Let us look at the curriculum and try to unravel the curriculum! Let's see that in school more can be practiced, not at home! The parents are overwhelmed, the children are overwhelmed because they are overloaded. They are overloaded from the contents, they are overloaded from time to time, they spend a lot of time in school, then prepare and housework. On average, a child has a 50-hour week. How does that work? Clarify me, please! So let's do what we can do right away: Relieve, let's unravel the curriculum! That's the first step. If we practice in school, we see that the follow-up hours are reduced! Now again the summer break, which explodes after aid costs, many parents do not know how to finance it. These are the problems that have not been discussed at all today and here, and these are points that we could tackle in the short term. This would help the children and parents. What did we do today? – A theoretical discussion in which the question of who should finance the whole was not answered at all. If I am quite honest, I am basically disappointed by this debate, because for parents and children nothing has looked out. The debate has been theoretically overturned, and under the outline will happen exactly what happened in the past: One will stick to ideological concepts. In the past, the New Middle School was forced, and now the actual concept of the New Middle School is that in the main subjects, pedagogues are also drawn from the gymnasias and made available double hours, cast over the pile. That's what I'm asking myself: What is left of this New Secondary School, except for the ideological desire to implement a concept that is all the same? That's too little for me. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e18813	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Musiol. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e18834	Ladies and gentlemen! We Greens see education in a holistic way, which has already been formulated by Beate Meinl-Reisinger by NEOS today. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] For us, education is not only school – many think only in school – but it goes from elementary education, from kindergarten to school to science, to adult education. So, of course, education debates are too short if they are only school. But now there is the Minister for Education, who is only responsible for one area. So we already see a division of tasks in the government, then tasks are once again distributed between the different levels: Communities, for example, have a task in kindergartens, countries have a task, the federal government has a task. If you look at that from the outside, it is clear at a glance that reforms, even if you want them, are not easy to implement. Let's get to the point: When I came to the National Council in 2008 and was in charge of kindergarten, we were soon looking for an image that could be used for a campaign for what is going on in the field of education. I can remember an action: Together with colleague Walser and vice-president Vassilakou from Vienna, we put a huge concrete plock in front of the ÖVP centre – because it was symbolised at the time – and worked with tools. [[Abg. Walser: Press air hammer!]] It was quite laborious. Since then I have the highest respect for all those who have to work with pressurized hammers and heavy tools every day, because I have had a muscle cat for days, I think, colleague Walser, you too. That was the picture of education reform at the time: Concrete! All the proposals that have been made have somehow come up with concrete: difficult to work on. Now this has changed. I now have a different picture, which is not the concrete picture anymore, but: It's something creepy. I've been a kid in the seventies, and there's this green mass in plastic cups,Slimy, I think it's called. [[Abg. Slimy!]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: And it was green as you said right!]] You could throw it on the wall, and hopefully there was nothing left to stick to. - That's it! It seems to me that the debate on education in the elementary education field, in the school sector, is not as much as concrete now as it is in the scientific field. Now you can decide: What do I find more pleasant, concrete or mucus? The mucus is definitely inconceivable and not really tangible. I'd like to explain why I'm talking about Schleim: For years I have been submitting applications for elementary education in the Family Committee: new division of competence, federal framework, federal competence, so that it no longer depends on the postal code, which framework conditions children find, but all children in Austria have the same opportunities. Or: Education New – not only for the teachers in the school, but also for the teachers in elementary education. Many of you know, but some may not know: Austria is the last country that does not train at higher education level. A few years ago we said that Austria and Malta are the last countries. Malta has managed, Austria has still not managed to provide a good education for the elementary teachers, and above all for an education in which one must choose the profession of elementary teachers not at the age of 14, but at an older age. And much more. I put these requests in the committee. All parties – with nuances – verbally agree to these requests; also the SPÖ, whose Members then say that we have already tabled the request ourselves when we were in opposition. And the representatives of the ÖVP also say: Yes, yes, it's all important! But they never come to the vote – and if they were to vote, they would probably not agree because then the countries are problematic, because then one cannot enforce this and that because one is not competent there and there. And that's mucus – isn't it? – when I say yes, I want it, but then it doesn’t make so tangible that I can attack it and say that there is now a measure coming out. Against this background, much has happened: quantitative expansion in childcare, in elementary education; we have built up from 2003 to 2004 from 8.5 per cent to 23 per cent of those under three years of age. But if you look at it, there are massive differences in the federal states – that is again: Federal competence is necessary –: 40 percent in Vienna and more than 12 percent in Styria. No one can explain why it works there and not there. Absolutely below the average is what we spend on early childhood education in money: 0.43% of GDP. The OECD average is 0.49 percent. Denmark spends three times. So here's a lot to do. Let me also say: At the moment, the system works mainly because there are a lot of people who, beyond their job assignment – whether in elementary education, in school, in science as well – show commitment and work partially free of charge, work beyond the work obligation, do good work, try to start school in public schools, but also in previously mentioned free schools. And it is really unbearable that this will be rewarded as it is currently being rewarded: on the one hand, often with good news from politicians, on the other hand, but also with insufficient financial support, which weighs much more heavily. It would therefore be important, in particular, to provide adequate financial support, at least to ensure equality with private schools. One last thing about deputies daughter, who unfortunately is no longer present: That you submit to my colleague, Scherak, black painting here, because he says what has been proved in many studies, namely that education is inherited and that it is important that there are opportunities here that children are individually supported, in kindergarten, in school, at universities, which shows that you, Mr. Deputie Dägenle – now he enters the room – either in your ministerial age or now as a Member of Parliament simply have never read these studies or, if you have read them, have not taken them seriously. Education of children needs support! And it is not a black painting that is operated by the Greens, by NEOS, but it is a finding of what it looks like here in the educational country – or, unfortunately, in the non-education country – Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e18909	Next, Mr Ertlschweiger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e18930	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to protect my colleagues, but he has said that our school system is not so good or that it is good and that there is far worse in the world. I'm sure he's right. [[Abg. Walser: Bangladesh! North Korea!]] However, it must also be said that the good is the enemy of the better, ladies and gentlemen. The education discussion we are having today is a very serious discussion, and I believe that we need a national etiquette in education, across all party borders. I am convinced that all the parties here in plenary have good ideas in terms of education, good approaches in terms of education and that it is up to us how we can channel it, how we can finally implement it. Then: The recipes are in the drawer. It doesn't matter who you talk to – whether you're talking to the Chamber of Commerce, with representatives of interests, with teachers, teachers, directors: People would know where to start. Only – this is the big problem in Austria – the reforms will not be addressed at the end of the day, they will be delayed, they will be dragged away, and then we will stop at the end of the day where we are now: that we have sometime a problem. Mrs. Gehrer has failed, Mrs. Schmied has failed, and unfortunately Mrs. Heinisch-Hosek is in the crusade of criticism. What the hell is that? – The fact is that, above all, national leaders and the trade union – and above all the powerful AHS trade union – are crossing and holding their hands over the school, and federal politics is biting its teeth. Here we have to put the lever on. I am now on my way to many schools in the Burgenlander Landtagswahlkampf. The Council of State Schools has initiated educational discussions, I have already attended eight schools, and there is always the central matura a topic. When I think about the central matura now, I say that is basically something good to have something comparable, to be European-widely standardized. This is not new, in the world there is already that, and Austria does not have to reinvent the wheel. The problem I'm in here is: Why is a central matura prepared and implemented in such a dilettant manner? The teachers do not know, the students do not know, the parents are frustrated and desperate. Ladies and gentlemen, it can't be – can it? – that you have years of time and then stand at the end of the day and say to the students: [[Congratulation of the Abg. Steinbichler]] I'm sorry, at BIFIE, they're really all exchanged, they've messed up. - It doesn't matter to the students. They are the sufferers. They mate this day, they are in the duty, and for which it is about a lot. And if you are a parent and talk to the students or to his children about it, then the joy is ending up willing when it is said that next year it will be better anyway and you will evaluate and repair. I can't hear that again, evaluate it and repair it! Maybe we'll do something that works for the first time. Minister of Finance Schelling said a few weeks ago in the “Kurier” that his group of experts has found that only every second euro comes in the classroom in the education system. Only every second euro – the rest sifted. This is also a fact, you have to question: How could that be? Where's the money going? Where's the money coming from? [[Abg. Steinbichler: the students have become less!]] We have school organizations that are totally inflated. Most of the money flows into the countries, and the countries are not allowed to look into the maps. They say: Hands away, that's country competence! And that's the problem. And there we are at the same time in politics: Why does the head of state have to be the President of the Council of State Schools? What does Mr Landeshuptmann know more than educators, than directors? What did politics lose in school? - Nothing! [[Congratulations to representatives of the Stronach team.]] We've heard it today: For politics, the school is a game ball. That's what it's all about. In Burgenland, it even went so far that until January the head of the State School Councillor had his own service car with chauffeur and was sitting first row free of foot at each SPÖ event. - Where is it? What is this look, ladies and gentlemen? What kind of optics is this to the teacher's college? What kind of look is this to the students? – So it's not understandable to me. I would like the schools to get more autonomy, more self-responsibility. That's not a new thing either, we've heard it today: The director of a gymnasium in Mattersburg probably knows better what's good for his school than any central position in Vienna. And the director of a new secondary school in 21. District knows this for his school. That means: Let us trust the director to take on more responsibility to manage the school's management! Federal policy must specify the educational objectives. On this one is then measured without this whether you have achieved this or not. But I think living here school autonomy would be very important. If we are already at the point where compulsory schools are concerned: I was at the AMS in Mattersburg a short time ago. You know, we have record unemployment in the country, and the problem is, 50 percent of those reported to the AMS have only one compulsory school degree. And every year we release 25 percent of students, children who are unable to read and write meaningfully – and that in Austria! We are the third most important country in the European Union, and we cannot allow these children, these young people, to be picked up and given a perspective to them. For how does the perspective on the labour market look for a young person who cannot read and write meaningfully? What job should he ever get? It will not go beyond auxiliary work. And that's the problem, because these young people will not be on the sack until the state is back in the future, we have to pay it again. That means we have to sit here. There is still much to be done here. And here you really have to implement measures. It is good and nice if we regularly discuss the whole issue of education, if we keep up with recent hours, urgent questions, only: We have to put something into practice, we have to take a ride, we have to get in the loop once, and we cannot always be blocked by any brakes, whether they are trade unions, national leaders or any other antique politicians. It is crucial that we make progress in education together, that we explain education as the principal thing. It must be a national shoulder closure because we owe our children the best education, because only in this way will we remain internationally competitive. Everything else is not possible. Only innovation creates high-quality jobs. That's what we need for the future, and that's what our children deserve. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e18994	Mr Klubobmann Dr. Strolz is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e19015	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear citizens! An urgent question on the subject of educational emergency: We have a constantly growing hole in the education budget, and we have no clarity in terms of education strategy. We've been on our way since 3:00 p.m., that's two and a half hours now. I'm trying to get a first summary. Karlheinz Teenle, I appreciate your always sober, subject-related tone, and you say it has been too alarmous to you from time to time, but I ask you to understand that. I wonder, again, that such a sausage is in the room. The Minister has admitted that we have a false amount of € 343 million for this year's educational budget. We write at the end of April, and we know that for this year 343 million are missing, but no one knows where that comes from. Now, medially, in some swirling or flattering comments, is co-chained with saying that we can do this by saving two hours of the week, no matter what. But that's never going to happen for this day! Even – and this is totally unrealistic – if you bring the two hours to the teachers and the savings will come from September, the maximum contribution will be 100 million. But it's totally unrealistic that this is already taking place this year. And even if it were to take hold, it still lacks €250 million. That's what I'm asking myself: What kind of budgetary policy is that? Parliament is responsible for the budget. We note here in Parliament – we get the information confirmed from the government – 343 million are missing. We're almost half of the year – and it's meaty, it doesn't matter! We don't know how to counter that. Last year, we've been looking for 57 million. How did we solve it? By 90 million. Yes, we'll take the 90 million to the next year. If I calculate pay cuts and put the cost developments on the budget framework for next year, then next year about 600 million are missing. And we don't care! - So I don't know. I don't want to be the over-energyer either, but we're responsible for the budget, and we're missing half a billion next year, and we won't find anything with it! [[Abg. Moser: Refusal of reality!]] We do not give you the pleasure of once again withdrawing from Parliament, as we did last time when we were lying in connection with a loss of € 1 billion. But somehow, as a parliamentarian, I don't feel taken very seriously when you say: Yeah, then we just got a missing of a few hundred million. So what? Keep going! - I mean, I can't do that. This is not the way to make serious policies. This can also be done by teachers, teachers, not everyone involved in the system, nor by parents, nor by students. I don't understand. [[Abg. Moser: I don't understand either!]] If this isn't a hanger for an alarmist undertone, I don't know what to do. They also confirmed, Madam Minister, that the share of school expenditure in GDP has fallen from 1995 to 2011, from 4.2 to 3.6 percent. They say, "Minute." But that is not minor if it drops from 4.2 to 3.6 percent! Yes, because of demographic development, you're right. Nevertheless, we agree that education is so important, in every Sunday speech of your parties, it is important. Everyone is so important to education – and then expenditure is falling here! I don't understand that. They are sometimes the wrong ones, actually the Minister of Finance would have to be there. I think it is incredible that this government does not set a priority here, but that it says: Yeah, we don't have any more money. – Yes, because you made 53 years of debt, we are now sitting in Rue de la Gack. I understand. [[Abg. Brosz: If we blacken a few issues, the problem is gone!]] But please, you can still set priorities – and this is politics. You can and must set priorities. We have also shown that with our tax reform model we are freeing 3.5 billion investment in education, research and innovation. €3.5 billion! Of course, we need to invest in education. If not there, where else? If the interest rates start to rise again – this government will not repay a cent of debt by 2019, but will continue to accumulate debt – and that will be the case in the early 1920s, then we should have exercised better that policy must set priorities, because it will be damn close. Then we can't cut the lawn mower everywhere, but then we'll have to ask the question: What is still important to us?, because we have to lock everything else in Austria. I hope there's a consensus that education is important. The Netherlands has provided school autonomy with a massively increasing budget. Of course, I think it's a danger to say: School autonomy is now the solution, and this will be a flaw management in the schools' own direction. – That would be bad for the disaster. Of course, if we are heartily going to autonomy, we must equip schools with a good budget. Over the last two decades, the Dutch have had double-digit percentages of growth in the education budget. They have recognized the need to invest and the return on income for society, for each individual person and for the economy as well. If I say now, we have to invest here – and school autonomy is obvious until 17. I would ask you, Mrs. Minister, not to say: Yes, we will then involve you already; now we advise once, and then at the end we will come to you! – That’s not exactly how education reform is done! If we want a reform of education, which takes a big bow, we need – and that was the question of process integrity that you could not understand – an integral, inclusive and integral process in which we, of course, involved and affected. If we do not take the parties and those concerned on the trip because you say: For 70 years we've been doing it as a red-black power cartel so that we can do it between both of us, and if we have two, it'll fit for the Republic!, I'll tell you: This time is over! You represent only more than 50 percent of this republic! You also have to take the other half on the trip. And if you somehow balance it with the national leaders – rather a power-political balance, whatever, it will probably become a power-political balance – then I can predict what that will be for a Murk, namely, the next. That's exactly how you did it at the New Middle School: You didn't set up a carrying, broad consensus process, but it was an exchange, and at some point you had the ÖVP in the concrete alley, so she had to hop it, but never wanted it. Of course, the ÖVP is waiting for the first chance in which it can hit it, and it has now received it with the NMS evaluation report. If you want successful reform processes, you need broad processes in preparation and then a determined implementation, that is, all countries. There will always be people who are against it, that's clear to me. But to say that we do not even try to involve the four opposition parties early, that is, of course, thinking 1975. At that time you had of SPÖ and ÖVP 93.3 percent, then the power cartel of the Republic was still in your possession, today you only believe it. You have four opposition parties, and you should take care of them and not let go of everything that comes from them. We also represent the people. And, of course, we are recoupled with fields, and a field, Mrs. Minister, are, for example, free schools. When I hear that you spend 4.5 million for free schools – these hearty educators, parents and school lines are billed with 4.5 million € a year – the heart is bleeding to me because there is so much good happening and so little appreciation that it is a tragedy. When I hear that the Confessionals get €37 million, I just don't think that's all right with my sense of justice. Just because one is a Catholic supporter and the other is not a Catholic, they get 70 percent more financed. These are all historically grown solutions that I understand, but you can't be serious that we say good conscience, we extend it. It doesn't even need a lot of money. The Minister for the Interior has over night received 300 million for tanks and everything possible. These free schools you could lift up the wings. Imagine if you give them 15 million and say: Okay, we're going to make sure you don't ask for school money, and you're going to take in school. What happens then? – What a renewed impulse would come into the school system if there were sudden equal opportunities! It's similar to the colleges. Suddenly, the colleges were publicly financed. And this is not a privatisation of the education system, Mrs. Minister. Hallelujah, you set the goals, you measure the quality – and if there is no good work coming, we will do it! Carrier model means that of course it can also be a community carrier. Please do not lead this debate ideologically, but let us see how it is in other countries, and let us try to take good and valuable things for ourselves on the journey! Katharina Kucharovich! We take the children with us, of course, which are mentioned in the text of our urgent request at the beginning and at the end. We are constantly in exchange with the student representation and today we will submit four requests from the student representation, which they have negotiated here at the student Parliament on Monday. Of course, this is an important group that belongs to it. I would ask you to set up a broad process here, Mrs. Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e19085	Mr Klubobmann, I assume that the motion for a resolution that I have here will bring in the next speaker of your group. [[Abg. Stroll: Yes!]] However, I would draw your attention to the fact that there is only one minute leftover. The next word comes from Mrs Holzinger. You're talking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e19117	Dear visitors to the gallery! Estimated citizens who are on TV or the Internet! Dear Colleagues! Minister! I would like to address the two most important transition points in the Austrian education system, so that some points can be made again in the debate on education reform. What do I mean by that? – One of the two main transition points in the Austrian education system is for me on the one side of the transition from kindergarten, from the elementary educational institution to folk school. The second important transition point is, on the other hand, the area after the primary school, where the decision is taken as to how the further school career should look as to whether one chooses the New Secondary School, AHS-Unterstehschule et cetera. The education system in Austria, which has been said very often, also has an extremely high priority for us Social Democrats, especially as a Social Democrats. That is exactly why we do not think that further cuts are being made in this area. In other words, training and training for young people must, in my opinion, be of the highest priority. In our view, education must start exactly with elementary education, that is, it is not a caretaker, but it is education in this area. From my own experience and from many discussions with kindergarten pedagogists who are already doing excellent work today, and from the narrowest environment I know how much heart blood they are with. Despite everything, there are still extreme challenges in this area. In order for us to make this profession interesting for just these people in the future, too, so that we can keep people in this field, it is precisely the objective or strategy that we have already formulated that needs to be strengthened. In other words, this area should be expanded by creating opportunities for continuing and continuing education in the field of elementary education. We're at the beginning, but we're on this way. That means that will come, in this direction it goes in every case. In this sense, as mentioned at the outset, it is also our task to change these currently existing interfaces – Mr Mayer has already mentioned them – so that they can hardly be felt anymore that there is no break for the child who is going through the system. It is just not to be overlooked that there has been enormous work in the direction in recent years and will also be to understand these transitions as bridges, thus saving the children the experience that is perceived as a break. I can mention the school entrance phase at this point. This phase should be set up with the last compulsory kindergarten year and with the first two years of folk school where the linkage is to take place. Cooperation between these two educational institutions is increasingly being strengthened. This is in our sense and is also continued. Why do you do that? – That’s precisely because a child of six or seven years of age does not have to have a certain level of development, a child is not a machine, a child has no deadline, and that’s exactly why we say that the child is an individual, it develops individually, and that’s why it takes this individual time to be able to go through these development steps. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is very important to ensure that this important phase ensures that the data and the knowledge about the children are not lost, that exactly this data is also passed on in order to continue working with the children. At this stage of development, special attention is paid to the acquisition of linguistic competence. What does that mean? – That is, language early promotion. We are already investing money in this area, and we are seeing it continue in this area. That's about €90 million by 2018. That's nothing! That means there's something going on. I firmly reject the accusation of lack of strategy and reform competence from social democracy. This project has also come to be seen as a kind of ideological prestige project. If Ideologically you understand the vehement goal of us to finally achieve the overcoming of inherited educational opportunities, then I must say, yes, then we act ideologically or, as I would say, overall thought. We're just dealing with the problem of justice. The NMS model should break precisely these social differentiations. Students of NMS attend more frequent secondary schools as graduates of primary schools. That's already a sign where I'm saying that's moving something, we're on the right track. Since the results of the evaluation of the NMS have been repeatedly pointed out – my previous speaker Elmar Mayer has already mentioned it – I would like to say, where the concepts and the model are implemented in a proper and in accordance with the concept, it is also right there, there it also works, there is an effect can be determined. To emphasize it again: This is a process that has not yet been completed. For us, complete equality of opportunity only exists when a longer common educational path has been established, I say that also in the direction of the coalition partner. [[Abg. Walser: Exactly the area: zero!]] We are working on a society-oriented and high-quality education system. We have taken the opportunity, we will continue to take action, and we will continue to work on it, as I hope, together with the coalition partner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e19165	The next item is the speech by Mrs Dr Karl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e19186	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This question is about educational reforms and the budget hole in the field of education. I would just like to say to the budget hole that it cannot be so that only the teachers should be able to stop this hole. That's where I expect more creative solutions. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, money is important, but even more important are the right reforms. This means, of course, that educational discussions and educational reforms are absolutely necessary. This is why the Education Reform Group has also been set up. What bothers me is that, in so-called educational discussions, it is only about structural issues or only about teacher-bashing. Such a discussion is quite easy for me to shorten and does not reflect the importance of education. Education is more, education is the new social issue. More social justice requires new access to education and work. This is for me the real social question of this century. Only those who give each individual the chance of education and work will create the prerequisite for a life of self-determination. Education and knowledge are the basis for each person's personal and professional success. If we are talking about education, then quality, diversity and attractiveness of education must be a clear priority. However, today's education system needs to recognise and specifically demand and promote the performance of the individual at an early stage. To this end, it is necessary for each child to receive the training that is best suited to its facilities, talents, interests and inclinations. In addition, our education system must enable lifelong learning and open up all fair opportunities and good prospects for their lives from kindergarten to university. However, when it comes to educational reforms, I would also like to refer to two other aspects that are important to me. On the one hand, education reforms should always take into account the differences between city and country. I myself grew up in the country and went to a primary school there. I can only tell you a great school that certainly didn't hurt me. On the other hand, if I talk about my primary school history in Vienna, I will be delighted here like an alien, just as Mr Strolz is today. Graduates and graduates from primary and new secondary schools have called them stigmatized. So I can tell you, I feel anything but stigmatized. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On the other hand, one should not hide in the field of education, that learning also means effort. Learning isn't always fun. Learning also means effort. But the students themselves are responsible for this. Teachers can only support them. The basic principle that learning is something important must be laid down in the family. This is the parents' responsibility for their children. So there is not only a responsibility for teachers, but also for parents and students. No matter how good the school may be, it should and can only supplement families and never replace them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e19250	Mrs Rosenkranz's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e19272	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Of course, the debate on education is an interesting debate, I say. I'm wondering now: How does what was largely discussed here relate to reality? My reality involves me as a student and long-term mother of children. Now I still have two children in school. I have an almost continuous professional school career behind me and look at that. What does what has been said here have to do with reality? – Actually, relatively little, I mean. I agree with the remarks made by my colleague Walter Rosenkranz, because at the outset I note that it is actually working pretty well, especially in rural areas. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is without a doubt a merit of teachers, among whom there are still many very good who really want to impart knowledge, want to impart knowledge, are also interested in the personal formation of children. You really have to thank these teachers. That's where I'm at the next point: To what extent are these structural questions, as the previous speaker noted, significant? They're there, too. But the really crucial question is, as I believe, the question of pedagogical concepts, because this shows a human image, a world view and thus also an educational and educational programme. In order not only to start well, I note that the school situation is still relatively good, especially in rural areas, thanks to the teacher. This does not, of course, apply to areas which have been multicultural. It also makes no use of anything – now I look at the greens – to talk about the hot bridle. The 15 percent functional illiteracy that can't read and write meaningfully is probably not in Hoheneich, but that's the result of the more forced by you – you want to drive it even worse – immigration policy and multicultural eiapopeia, which doesn't work so easily. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walser.]] Secondly, Whatever I hear again and again, and what teachers among you can probably confirm is that there has been a strange shift within the competence line. Education was roughly the case of the school. And education, the acquisition of basic skills, of basic educational results, social behaviour, the willingness to concentrate, to take effort to stay in the matter, that was then strongly the matter of the parents' home. By the way, the more we – let me tell you this – state education, the more this competence of children suffers, and the more teachers then have to compensate for the deficits that families no longer fulfil – I say – because politics prevents them from doing so. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In addition to these misdevelopments, which are not outside politics, but outside the immediate education policy, now to those who are directly involved in education. I see it completely different from what many of you have said here. We do not have a reform stand, and it is not like nothing goes on, nor do we complain of a standstill. That would be as if from an inadequate past we were finally seeking a better future, that is not the case at all. Since the 1970s – but you will not challenge me now – a school reform and a school attempt have been pursuing the other. Rather, we were sick of a reformitis. It is not the question of whether we have too few reforms, but we must ask the questions: Are these reforms going in the wrong direction? , if I have the empirically measurable results, I do not want to overvalue it, but also not underestimate it, look at it and also consider the complaints of the university teachers – even sometime that must be confirmed – who say that many maturants come with a non-academic level to the university. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Or the entrepreneurs say that if I put on the same test for my apprentices, which I was able to put on ten years ago, then I won't get any more. So this decline and loss of education are also a fact. Conversely, it is: We come from a relatively good situation into an ever worse one, and that in a very short passage! What does school have to do, even if you're going to yell right now? – School is not an event for the production of equality and not for the sake of justice. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walser.]] People are equal to dignity and prestige, but they are different in their talents. That's why we need a structured school system. More students reach Matura through the primary school and the higher education schools than over the long-term form of the AHS. What do you want? You're actually here on this subject? Secondly, Whoever fails to demand performance, he fully recognizes the willingness and the seriousness of children and appreciates people too little. It will cut its potential for development. By the way and by the way: Performance is a U.S. principle. It is not by birth, status or the wallet that the value or social rank in society is determined, but by performance. Why do you want to train the children at school? Thirdly, It will not be enough for us to communicate competence: Media competence, life competence, social competence, we need some kind of biology, we need mathematics, we need facts and solid knowledge. You can only be critical of something if there is something you can approach. Only communication of competence, that's like knitting without wool. This is also a point: The acquisition of knowledge and skills, facts in the natural sciences will not be completely relinquished. This brings me to the last point: It is not only about natural sciences, but also about the formation of personality needs a basic humanistic education. I mean, our own literature, in the broadest sense, European, art and history are indispensable. Hamlet is not a question of 16. ==References== Whether the human being is one who struggles to shape his destiny or whether he is short, is there once, is gone, and it is indifferent what he does and drives, that is a question that is good for every century. If so, Dante just falls more like that, oh, Bayern Munich, then we have done too little.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e19403	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Jarmer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e19424	Mr President. High house! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. On the topic of education: I have to say, I'm really mad today, really mad. The government parties have absolute responsibility for education, and it is saved and shortened in the wrong places. As far as education is concerned, Mr Strolz, we have made very, very many proposals by the Greens as an opposition party – with my colleague Harald Walser – and have already made a lot. This includes my requests. I have put forward a request concerning the inclusive timetable. What happened? – Rejected! According to the motto: Yes, it is enough, there is a national action plan! But what does that mean? – In Austria we have a double-track system with special schools and integration schools. Ms. Minister of Education, you know that's expensive – and then the money is missing, and then nothing is running! Of course, there are model regions, beautiful and good, but who knows that there are? The government parties here on the right and on the left, you have to continue, you decide here what education is! So do something too! – Until now, nothing has happened. It can't go on like this! No, no, no, [[Congratulations with the Greens as well as representatives of NEOS and Team Stronach.]] What does inclusive mean? – Only teaching disabled children? No, everybody together! This also has advantages for the children who are not disabled. My colleague Josef Huainigg and I came here to the Parliament, and everyone was scared: Oh, my God, how do I do, how can I deal with a person with disabilities? - Now they've gotten used to it. I ask you: How should children, if they do not know from childhood how to deal with children with disabilities, in future know how to deal with such people on the labour market? – Yes, then they land on a wrong labour market. Yeah, then you save in the wrong places. And who's responsible then? Then who's funding this? – The Ministry of Social Affairs, it sets out all possible measures, according to the motto: Let's try to save these people! – I am very sorry, but the responsibility is still with you! This also applies to people who are deaf. I have already requested that the sign language be recognized as an educational language. We celebrate ten years of recognition of the sign language in the Austrian Constitution, and after ten years children still do not have the right to be taught in sign language. ==References== A group of students comes to parliament on 1 June. These students will report on their experiences in schools. I wish that all disabled speakers from all parties will attend, come and listen to this event. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e19531	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr Franz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e19552	High house! Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Let's talk about the terms. What does education mean? – Education means being put in the picture that you know what's going on at all. It is a fundamental duty of policy that citizens know what is going on. However, I have long had the suspicion that this is not the first goal of the government, and not at all the first goal of the socialist part of the government, because here there are ancient proverbs, old wisdoms, namely “beati pauperes spiritu” and “panem et circenses”. Say: Happy are the mentally poor! And: We need bread and games! If we have the mentally poor and the uneducated, they are easy-to-control people. They are grateful for things the state pretends to believe in state ideologies. And “panem et circenses” – we just need to go to the town hall square. Our mayor in Vienna is a master of “panem et circenses”. There the people meet, and then the people are relatively no matter what happens in the high politics or elsewhere in the world. I submit and diagnose: There is something going on in a very different direction than towards education. Here is to be a popular damnation, because only the stupid, uneducated citizen is easily taxable. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I can bring an example from reality – there are hundreds of examples, enough if I bring one –: A friend of mine is a hairdresser, and education always has something to do with education. This friend and hairdresser has seen over 30 potential apprentices in recent months. One third could not write about it, the others were not willing to keep working time, did not appear the next day and said: This is an unreasonable activity, for which I have not come to the world, I stand in agreement with others! It's et cetera, et cetera. It wasn't a good thing to do. And do you know who he took? A newly learned migrant who came to Austria legally. There's a Moroccan working now. And the Austrian apprentices have disappeared somewhere. I don't want to make them bad right now, they can't do it any different. The hairdresser also made the effort to follow it, called the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Labour and asked what one could do. He received the answer: Yeah, we know about the problem anyway! Unfortunately, you can't do anything, that's right now! Ladies and gentlemen, this is a disaster of education and training! [[Abg. Peter Wurm: This is the reality in Austria!]] [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: This is international! It's not so bad with us!]] That is reality, and this reality is a disaster. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I think this is a real perfide to the citizens, because it would be a fundamental duty for the state to ensure that citizens are properly trained and that they are properly trained. And this is becoming more and more neglected in us – as my previous speaker Rosenkranz has already said. One word to the teachers: Teachers are mostly idealists who do not take up this profession as a job, but see it as a vocation. Accordingly, they get sick these days because the system is sick. I'm a doctor, as you know, I have a lot of teachers in the ordination. Most of them have chronic diseases caused by psychosocial stress, knowing that the system is not behind them. This is also a disastrous sign for the boys, for the students: the loss of authority, the loss of systematic structures, even the loss of attitude, propriety and culture. I mean, we should be more concerned with this than with matters and everyday questions. There's something going on that erodes our society. A very important point – even that has already been mentioned today – is the courage to perform, the courage to the elite. We have to trust ourselves again: We want to have people, citizens, citizens in Austria who want to be something that wants to do something that wants to represent something in life and who do not rely on the sucking breast of the state. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e19632	It is a second time that Mrs Magistrate has spoken. Meinl-Risinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e19653	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! I shall now take up the reading of the motion for a resolution and gather: The financial emergency requires urgent answers and the question of the education strategy requires a new process, a comprehensive process that brings the stakeholders on board. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Again: For us autonomy is more than autonomy in educational-didactic terms. We want a comprehensive school autonomy. Give us confidence and responsibility in schools!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e19710	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Meinl-Reisinger is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e19772	I call Mr Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e19793	So I have read the text of the urgent question several times, I also had the opportunity to do so because I have participated in the discussion here all the time. This is partly written in a secret language. When I look at page 2, there are quotes such as “use intrinsic motivation as levers” – I've had ancient Greek and Latin, but I'm doing a little hard. Or: “Training flat and multiple hierarchies” – there is the question: What do you mean? Or: “Living flexible” – you have to define that! In my school age flexibility was as much as: I'm going to the cinema and I'm not going to school. [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] That's how it was then. So I don't quite understand. As I said, it's a little bit of a secret language. [[Abg. Stroll: As stupid as you imagine, you are not!]] And in front of the really crucial question: When is the moment of selection: at 10, with 11, with 12, 13, 14 years?, press. And that is really the basic conflict. This has historical reasons and goes back to the pre-war period. This is the fundamental conflict between SPÖ and ÖVP. This involves the right to serve, the construction of schools, the premises. Everything's related to that. And you have to discuss that. [[Abg. Stroll: Let's solve it! We're making the offer!]] And now it's already so far that you can't lose talent under the motto "No talent can be lost!" – that's where we agree again – says: There are some ones, which the button earlier opens, and which, later the button opens up, these are the late buttons and the early buttons. Therefore, one must orient an education system to the possibilities and needs of the students, they are the decisive, not the right to serve! The decisive thing is: What does the student need so that he is part of our democratic society today with his qualifications and is competitive from education? This is the decisive – and not any ideologies! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Stroll.]] I am therefore for the whole day school because you can distribute the material better, because the learning success is better, and not the mommy then has to sit at home and later the assistant teacher and the follow-up teacher to supplement what is not done in the school because this is no longer happening in the afternoon. What I'm saying now is not my invention, it's not a traditional process, that's what the economy says, it's the progressive parts of the economy in Austria that say that. They have recognised that, when it comes to qualification and training, one must also focus on the structure of what the school is like. They say that financial and organisational autonomy, education objectives and education standards are defined. You just have to think the whole thing over. I am also basically in favour of expanding autonomy, but you have to ask the question: What effect does this have on administration, evaluation and control? [[The speaker points in the direction of the conciliatory nodding Abg. Stroll.]] Nicking is simple, but organizing it through, thinking through and financing is a second very crucial question. I would like to talk about this here, because I believe it is important. And then you come out to the speaker's desk and say, Mr. Minister of Education, do this, do it, do it! Of course, a trade union representative should then sit here from the public service, who has a certain idea and says: I represent my people, end, out, basta! In the past, the trade unions had something like an understanding of the state mechanism, for the whole. This should be demanded in some cases – not all of them. I'm against the fact that the teachers are an enemy. I understand if a teacher, when I was in school, would have said: I'm not going to go there! I can still understand that. But you should really discuss attendance in class at class. This should, of course, be in relation to the total working time, that cannot be separated, the teaching time is a part of the total working time. But if you are relieved, you may have the possibility that the teachers will simply be longer in class. You can discuss this rationally, but you should not create an image of the enemy of de-motivated teachers and de-motivated students. How is school supposed to work when the student gets up in the early days and says: I'm going to school today, but actually everyone in the newspapers, that's a huge cheese, has been sick for a long time, is a embarrass! Yeah, why do you want me to go? The teacher says: I'll break up, I'll do something in the afternoon, I'll go in the morning! And then he'll be discouraged again. [[Abg. Schönegger: You should tell your colleague at the Town Hall!]] I'm against the disease and against demotivating. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] I am in favour of all of us meeting together for our children and getting results together. This is a very important parameter for the government. In addition, I would like to thank you for having been introduced to Krem's German government in advance of regular education. This is also a very important point and an important prerequisite for success. So we should all try to do this together and not fight around here.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e19941	The next item is the speech by Mr Ing. Hofinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e19963	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am also particularly pleased that we are talking about education today, but in the way we do it, that does not help much. I do not necessarily see the educational emergency described by NEOS in two ways. Of course, a substantial part is always the money, but ultimately it is not the money alone, which is crucial. Compared to other countries, we don't have so little money for education, but – that's what Mr Ertlschweiger has done quite well – we don't get every second euro to the students and to the school. Here we still have a huge need for action. The NEOS's request for urgency is more likely to cause the teachers to be discouraged. I would like to break a lance here for the teachers: They do an excellent job for our children under difficult circumstances. I do not understand that certain persons and institutions are driving a teacher-bashing. That doesn't help anyone. Teachers are being discouraged, and of course the students feel that too. In the government programme of Schladming and Krems, I really see two key points that the government is moving forward. In school autonomy, I see something very essential for the future, which can even save costs. The New Secondary School – it has been heard – is not necessarily the final conclusion of wisdom, and I am already pleased when these six hours are freely available in the primary schools and in the New Secondary Schools, for who knows it better than the teachers there at the school sites themselves. The establishment of educational directorates in the regions all the more indicates that it must come from the base and that education must actually take place right there and regional education works best there. In this sense on our teachers and on our students and on good results for the 17th century. November! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e20000	The next item is the speech by Mr Mölzer. The remaining time of your club is 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e20021	Mr President. Minister! High house! We have had a debate today – that is what Mrs Rosenkranz and Mr Hauser have already said – which has not completely moved in reality, but has been concerned with many things that have been bramar-based, that we must not leave children behind, that we must fight the poverty of education, that we must abolish permeability in the system and so on and so on. That's the claim, that's nice and good. The reality – I am abducting you to the province of Carinthia – looks different. On Monday, your red comrade, the head of the state of Carinthia, announced that you would like to close 17 small schools. Of course, it is clear to us that some schools are unfortunately no longer different. If the number of students has fallen below ten, it is simply no longer possible to do otherwise. Of course, there is the demographic development that is due to other policies, unfortunately God's doing yours. There are many examples, however, in which there are already large question marks. I'd like to tell you about one of these. It is located in the municipality meeting on the Ossiacher See the folk school of Einöde, since it does not apply to est omen, which is located in a beautiful mountain valley. In the small school there are 20 students who are taught four-stage in a class. This works very well and is in so far a success model, as three or four children come from other school clubs to make use of this educational offer. I think there is a high quality of education there, but the school is also an essential factor, because, of course, this school in the small village also makes a social and a cultural contribution by organizing various celebrations that shape social life and is thus an important part. This school should now be closed. I've looked at this very carefully, and I've got to say: If the municipality were to sell the school building as a school builder, it would probably bring a savings of about €30,000. This would mean, in addition, that the children would have to be carted by the congregation to the other school for about € 10,000 to €15 000, i.e. they remained above the thumbs about €15 000 in savings – €15 000, but they would probably go up for appropriate adaptations in the other school in order to create room for the children there. So that's a zero-sum game, because there's no savings for the teacher's staff, because you need a teacher somewhere else. So that's where I wonder: Why are you closing a school like that? One possibility is inability, not thinking, not looking at it. The other way I fear – and it doesn't make anything good swan – is to deliberately destroy these small educational units and force the educational centres to make it easier to implement left-wing education policies. That seems to me to be obvious. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In this context, Mrs Minister – I have asked for it several times, you have done it quietly in the committee – I expect you to make it clear at last to the public, which is now with your unfortunate announcement – I think it was in January – that these small schools should be closed. You're back then. I would finally like to have spoken of you as plain text so that the uncertainty can finally get away. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] One thing I need to confirm: We liberals will not allow this to happen, we will fight for such schools – there are still many other examples, similar to those in the desert – to be preserved. You know, in ten days, the teaching committee is meeting, we have a request to do so, and I would be pleased if we had broad support for it.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e20082	The next item is the speech by Mr Schmid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e20103	Mr President. High house! As the last speaker, I am now glad that we have been talking about education in such detail. So thank you to NEOS for bringing in the urgent ones. In principle, we could probably talk about this subject here for a whole year, and we should probably do so soon. [[Abg. Wheeler: One year?]] A year, yeah! There's enough to reform. I think that we could remodel Parliament in such a way that we don't just talk about it for a few hours, but that we really invite experts and open the whole thing up a little bit. Well, definitely, I think it's cool that's such a... [[Abg. Fekter: But you already know that we are a representative democracy and not an expert dictatorship! That's a difference!]] – Representative democracy, yes, but we can sometimes hear experts. It would not be so bad on the subject of education, Mrs Fekter, if we were to do that. - All right. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In any case, many of the right points have really been raised from your party, which I can absolutely stress. There's been a lot of things, except for the woman Rosary. There I have to say, with you sometimes I somehow have the feeling that You want to turn the wheel of time back a little bit, for example in school. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kitzmüller.]] I would like to introduce my father, who went to school in Carinthia in the country in the 1960s. At that time, the conditions in schools were partial, I would say, not so child-friendly. [[Abg. Schimanek:... the woman Rosary does not listen properly!]] I have exactly the other perspective: I believe that our school system is currently too little for the future and that we should not go back to the 1960s or even further, Mrs. Rosenkranz. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kitzmüller.]] In any case, we really have big problems in the Austrian school system, for example, that 8,000 students cancel the school every year without leaving school. We have a socially totally impenetrable school system, which means that most simply do the training their parents or at least one parent has made. I think this is a problem, because it is not only going in the direction that, for example, when you come out of a worker's budget, you do not make a university career, but also vice versa: There are hardly any people from an academic household who teach. – I think the school system needs to become much more transparent! This is a central problem of our school system. And the third big problem we have to solve here is: I think our school system is quite a frustration system. We really drive out young people and children from the very beginning, because – everyone knows this – when a child has his first day of school, it usually looks forward to school, and if you ask if it is looking forward to the first day of school, then it says yes. If you ask the same young people a few years later: And, are you looking forward to school today?, the answer usually looks different. – The question is: What's going on in there? I think we can reform a lot there, for example, that we're heading towards talent. It should be about what you can do as a student, and not so much about which subject you are bad at and what you have to pay particular attention to. We can bring more practical approaches to teaching, for example by making more projects and having less of these rigid 50-minute units. For example, we can also make sure that we get the best teachers, that the best teachers start and are motivated in their job, and not that politicians so to speak, and that they align themselves to the teachers, that they do not work. – I think that’s also a step in how to do it exactly wrong at the moment. The difficult thing, then, is that we have big problems. We could do some things, but since I was in school – and also during this time – there has actually been no real reforms in the education system. Although there have been these problems at the time, there has been nothing to say now: Hey, something's done! There has been a single reform that has now been made in great style, and that is the central matura. It's been pulled through. But I have to say one thing: I can really get rid of the central matura many positive aspects, which are already, but in relation to what problems we have in Austria and what reforms we should make, I think the central matura is really an unnecessary reform. I'm sorry, Mrs. Minister, but you have to say that, I think, even so, because I've come around incredibly much with students in schools, and there are hardly any people who say: Hey, my pleasure or pleasure in going to school has risen because of the central matura! So I think about this point that we have to see that next year there will no longer be such a chaos, where a lot has happened, and I also want us to finally address these very central problems in the education system in Austria and not go partly on such – in my opinion – side tracks. [[He-Rufe des Abg. Mayer]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e20199	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We come to the votes. Firstly, we shall be voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Members. Meinl-Reisinger, colleagues and colleagues on anchoring elementary education in the educational resort. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be signs. – This is the minority and thus rejected. Vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Strolz, colleagues, on the implementation of a cross-party dialogue process on school autonomy. Whoever is for this, please give a sign. – This is the minority. It is therefore also rejected. [[18:25:09]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e20257	I shall now resume the negotiations on points 9 to 12 of the agenda. Next item is the report by Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e20282	Mr President. Minister! High house! It is difficult now, after three and a half hours, to go back to the subject where we have been standing before. I would like to replicate the executions of colleagues who have already spoken here about the motor vehicle law and public transport. Maybe I'll get it together for a minute, because I only have two minutes of speaking time. We support this EU directive adaptation, as it creates greater legal certainty, and legal certainty is an important point in policy. Citizens should be able to rely on the legal certainty of what we politicians are doing here for the best. I will then return to the question of legal certainty at a later item on the agenda, where I am referring to a request concerning the use of single-track motor vehicles, i.e. motorcycles. But later on. Let me briefly address Mr Willi's request for a request concerning public transport infrastructure in agglomerations. This has actually been rejected by all political groups, except the Greens, in the Committee, and this has its reason. Mr Willi, I have already told you in committee: They are represented by the Greens in various national governments. You would have the opportunity to implement it there too. So your comrades in the green state governments would have the opportunity to implement it themselves there, because it does not need the Federal Minister. I'm certainly not suspicious now that I'm defending a red Federal Minister here, but I have to defend him because the situation is just the way it is, and this request goes into emptiness. [[Abg. Heinzl: You could do that one day!]] That is why we cannot give our assent to this request; we will agree with the other requests. I am looking forward to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e20318	Next come Mrs Elisabeth Hakelzu word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e20343	Mr President. Mr. Minister! On the last Transport Committee, we decided to establish a committee in which we call on the Federal Ministry of Transport, Innovation and Technology to draw up a guide for the consideration of social and quality criteria in bus transport, and in particular to provide the issuing bodies, in particular the federal states, municipalities and transport associations, in the form of a non-binding catalogue of recommendations. – In short, we want to get away from the low-cost bidder principle and the best bidder principle. Yes, I support the union in anchoring these tools, i.e. social and quality criteria, clear, consistent, mandatory and without loopholes à la longue. The call in the form of the Committee to provide such a catalogue of recommendations is, in any case, an important step in the right direction. And apart from that: The federal states and transport associations can already take measures at voluntary level to demand these social and quality criteria. In bus transport, for example, this would be the local knowledge or the ability to provide information on tariffs, transport connections et cetera. In an analogy to the quality criteria, social criteria ensure fair employment conditions and ensure that high-quality and well-paid jobs remain in rural areas in particular. The points I have just mentioned are only part of the possible criteria when it comes to deciding which companies to move. It is also important to me to stress that the federal states, the municipalities and the transport associations can already be done on a voluntary basis. However, I would also like to address another important issue. A colleague will put forward a motion for a resolution later, and this is a request made at the initiative of our child and youth spokesperson Katharina Kucharovich. This is a tariff offer for public transport students. I think this proposal is very important. I myself am one who has already done this as a student and is still driving a lot by train or by public transport. I just know how public transport of young people, is used by students, especially on the route Vienna-Stiermark and Graz-Obersteiermark, where I always drive. That is why I would like to stress that all ministers – in this case also the minister with small I – are invited to develop a tariff offer for public transport students. I would like to stress the importance of this proposal and congratulate it warmly.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e20391	The next item is the speech by Mr Pock. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e20412	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! I would like to respond briefly to the government documents. We carry both templates essentially. Like the Greens, we believe that clear air is up, but it is an improvement to the existing situation. In this sense and as a Pragmatist, we carry this. However, what is contained in the government documents is also the “direct award” area, and here I would like to point out again – we have already had the discussion in the Committee – that: Direct awards are the exception from the rule from the European Union's point of view and its directives. The rule should be free competition. In Austria, the exception from the rule of free competition is exactly the opposite to the practice in other countries. In this context, we can also see that we could actually put funding on new legs. We have already heard in the debate that more than €300 million is missing in the field of education. If we look at how public transport is currently financed, then we could save up to € 300 million from a budgetary perspective each year when it comes to implementing what has already been done in Bavaria, namely without direct awards – so we do not give the order directly to the public transport authorities, but we ask who is the best provider with the best quality. With the same quality for the same service, a savings potential of €300 million would be included, so we could – for example – provide an adequate contribution to an Austrian educational transition. I would also like to respond to the request made by the Greens, which we will not, at least, support. The idea here is that with regard to the public sector Transport in agglomeration centres is also intended to co-finance the public sector on the federal side. In our opinion, this is exactly the wrong way. In our proposal for a tax reform, where we have said that it should be less, simpler and fairer, we have advocated that we hand over tax autonomy to the federal states and that the federal states be both the public transport client, when it comes to the region, as well as the level that finances this public transport. This means less revenue at federal level, more revenue at national level, but public regional transport should also be financed at national level. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e20455	The next item is the speech by Mr Deputies on jewellery miners. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e20476	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! This law on road transport, passenger transport, public transport is concerned with the issue of public transport, and there is also the issue of the award of services. It has already been mentioned: I think it is a very essential part of the fact that there is transparency on the one hand, but on the other hand not only the cheapest bidder principle, but, above all, the best bidder principle is that quality is very well looked at here. I think the savings measures can be raised much better in one level or another than then really outside at the customer's, because I do not wish that our children will then be carred through the area as perhaps some sort of package service, but I would like us to be able to provide really the highest quality for the users of public transport. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schimanek.]] This quality issue is always to be addressed in advance of the cost issue. The European Union's Directive competence requires this and wants this customer service to be offered. I just want to make one comment. Previously, at the beginning of the debate, we heard that 90 percent of the Austrian population have a stop in the area of 1,500 meters. Of course, it is necessary to say that a statistics can distort everything, because it is not only the infrastructure of the stop, but ultimately also the question of the interval, how often a transport there or there comes, relevant, and especially the rural area often suffers very much from the fact that the intervals are not short enough. However, this is not a question of the maximum, but of quality, of how I ensure this transport. If we were to put more emphasis on bus transport, which offers greater flexibility, we could also link rural areas even more closely. Many federal states, such as Lower Austria, are already doing this, where one has painfully had to save one sidecar, but with a quality, high-quality bus transport, it is very likely that an improvement in public transport has been achieved for consumers. I believe that this efficiency and benefits for public transport users are very important. At this point I would also like to draw attention to the initiative of the Young ÖVP, which is in favour of the student ticket and has been moving forward for a very long time. On the other hand, however, we can never ignore the cost optimization for the public hand, because we cannot wish ourselves things that we end up with, If we order them, we also have to pay. We have to keep this in mind again and again. And finally, we also need to draw this consequence, because wishes are beautiful, but the user only brings it to something if he also has a bus or tram in which he can get in, and if he reaches his destination as best he can.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e20524	Mr Stöger, Federal Minister, spoke. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e20546	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! In my view, it is important to point out that this package of measures ensures that we implement European rules, the PSO rules, that we make new rules on awards and that we are now contributing to legal certainty. I would like to express my express thanks to the Members of the Transport Committee for this committee. This Committee, which has been unanimously decided, puts certain pressure on the issuing bodies in Austria, namely that they have to take into account quality criteria or social criteria in their calls for tenders. From my point of view, I intend to create a catalogue. We're already deep in the work. I'm going to have them together with the Landesverferenten on 30. We will discuss April in Innsbruck, and we will make a common catalogue available. All issuing bodies are invited to provide better transport design to the Austrian customers and to offer quality transport services as well as social standards in the interests of Austrian customers. Those who compare the Austrian public transport system with others note that we are sometimes very, very well positioned in the regions and that we have a good infrastructure – including the quality of the vehicles – but also – that is also necessary – that we can offer in the amount of good transport so that the connections are available at all reasonable times – then, if they need people. In this sense, thank you very much also for the Committee's determination.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e20583	The next item is the report by Mr Angerer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e20604	Mr President. Minister! Appreciate High House! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Minister, we are in principle pleased that you are implementing the directives of the European Union, but of course it would also be nice if you were to implement what our transport companies and what we need in rural areas in particular. That is why I actually had the hope that you would include our application for alternative forms of operation in this law and find it there. Unfortunately, I have to say, it's not in there. The request has also been rejected, although the countries – you know; if you do not know, it is very bad – have long been negotiating with the ministry and trying to find a solution because it is simply necessary that we offer alternative forms of operation in rural areas. Today – I have already heard this word – we are talking about “spirit buses”, which are going through the area. However, we do not give people, rural regions and transport companies the opportunity to replace them with alternative forms of operation, which can be done by means of a car. Unfortunately, this is a pity, and I am afraid that, of course, in the plenary session, the gentlemen of the ÖVP and the gentlemen of the SPÖ will now again reject this, which is always talking about the support of the rural area, but unfortunately again and again inside this House. That is why I have looked at our request again and thought that perhaps it is because we have already given a clear legal text, because it contains something that does not fit you. I thought we were making one more request to give you the opportunity to make a proposal from your side. There is also the problem that the numbers of students and passengers are going down, which, of course, means that funding is no longer guaranteed, because today's funding and support are regulated by the federal government on the number of students, which will reduce rural areas and will no longer maintain these traffics. We just need a solution. Firstly, we need alternative forms of operation, second, appropriate financing. That is why I would like to put another motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] I ask you for your support, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e20671	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mr Angerer is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e20731	Next speaker: Mr Buchmayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e20752	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to stress on item 9, on the amendment of the Motorways Act, the importance of awarding public service contracts or concessions under social criteria, in particular in ensuring necessary compensation in rural areas, as has just been mentioned. I have a concrete example here: One of the first necessary EU-wide calls for tenders by the Upper Austrian Transport Association for the Citybus operation of a district capital provided two suppliers: a private consortium of two bus companies and ÖBB-Postbus GmbH. The private consortium of companies offered so far under price that an economic review was carried out because the offer was partly really unbelievable. The result would have been that after two years the private consortium of companies had to go into bankruptcy in the required services, which were precisely documented. The supplement was then awarded to ÖBB-Postbus GmbH. The invitation to tender was certainly not in vain, because in total, about 20 percent of the costs were saved from the costs previously incurred. The current situation is so, we have a reliable partner for the next six years, cheaper and better services through new buses – low-emission, air-conditioned, barrier-free – and optical and acoustic support for stop displays. The situation has become more favourable and has improved significantly compared to the previous ones, but vice versa it would have become very fragile if one had taken the benevolent bidder. Then ÖBB-Postbus GmbH would have gone away from there, one would have gone to another supplier or best bidder after two years – so it is, thanks for the comment and the help. [[Abg. Auer: Cheapest bidder! Take the best bidder, and that was the cheapest bidder!]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e20789	Next, Mrs Mag. Brunner speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e20810	Mr President. Mr Verkehrsminister! Ladies and gentlemen. Dear Seers! I am talking about item 10 and I would like to make two requests to express and eliminate the urgent need for public transport and transport governance in Burgenland and East Styria. The first refers to the line between Friedberg and Oberwart, which could also continue to Hungary and which is very important for the regional economic location. Unfortunately, passenger transport has already been stopped there, and now there is also a threat of an end to freight traffic. Tax funds have already been invested in the follow-up. By setting up this route, these taxpayers would simmer completely in the sand. I believe that especially in these times, a connection to the neighboring Hungarian city, to Szombathely, would also be important for the region. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] The second request concerns the separation between public transport and transit cars in the south of Burgenland. There the S 7 is planned, a transit route, while at the same time there is no money for public transport. Therefore, I would also like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is important for the region and the environment. I'd like to see it right now, too. They, as representatives of the people, are drawing attention here to the fact that there are public surveys that clearly oppose this project.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e20909	Mrs Mag. Mr Brunner's motions for resolutions which have just been tabled are sufficiently supported and are therefore under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e21035	Next speaker: Mrs Dipl.-Kffr.Pfurtscheller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e21059	Mr President. Salute God, Minister! Dear audience at the gallery! Ladies and gentlemen! In my speech, I refer to Agenda items 9 and 10. The present drafts include the implementation of the EU Commission's Public Service Bond Regulation. Following long negotiations in Brussels, an acceptable compromise has been reached for Austria, which is to be put into national law by means of these legislation. They constitute a new legal framework for public services, public procurement and public transport concessions. As we all know, financing and ordering in public passenger and regional transport is carried out by the municipalities, the federal states and the federal government. Since most of the routes in public transport have to be funded to make them attractive at all so that they can be run cost-effectively by the individual operators, so-called public services are needed. I try to focus briefly on the key points of the novels. On the one hand, definitions are adapted in terms of content to European legislation and, on the other hand, a body is to be established at national level, covering all compensation payments to transport services in a federal country. The aim is to ensure efficient use of resources in order to avoid overpayments or overcompensation of public-funded transport services. I think it is very welcome that more transparency will be created in the flow of payments in public transport. The Novelle of the Motorways Act ensures efficient and legally secure application for the granting of concessions for power lines services, so that passengers can be provided in a legally secure manner with a low-cost and high-quality public transport. My preliminary speakers have already referred to the tender rules. Overall, however, the objective should be to use the available tendering instruments in such a way that the overall system of passengers, public transport operators and public transport operators benefits as much as possible. Overall, I believe that public passenger transport can have a very positive interim balance. Around 265 million passengers use the train every year, and 600 million passengers use bus services. These are very encouraging and remarkable numbers. From a passenger point of view, public transport should be used as easily as possible, with optimal coordination of individual transport and lines, high quality as well as continuous information and service. Although the organization behind it is secondary for passengers, it is of course very important for us. Above all, it is important that the tax money is used as targeted and as efficiently as possible. With these innovations, we ensure that public transport in Austria continues to be ensured at the usual high level. This allows us not only to attract the public, but also to create a clear set of rules in order to be able to handle tenders and concessions as transparent as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e21102	Next word: Mr Schmid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e21123	All right, now it's about the top youth ticket. The point is that the top youth ticket, which has been introduced, was a super reform, but so far it concerns only students, apprentices and some people who have a voluntary social year or voluntary environmental year. A large group of people who are in education is not included in the Top Youth Ticket: This is the group of students. That is why I think it is important that this be extended to the group of students, because after the student social survey, for example, mobility for students living in the country and commuting to the university city is a huge financial burden. From an ecological point of view, I simply want many young people to use public transport and learn it from the beginning. That is why my colleagues and I are making the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Then comes the other request, I have heard from the government groups. I would like to agree with that. My problem is that it is just a little too weak to call on the Federal Government to “get into discussions with the transport associations in line with the government programme”. – In my opinion, this should have been the standard and should have been done for a long time. I do not know why you need your own request. I would like the government programme to be implemented to extend the top youth ticket to the students, and I therefore ask for the consent of the Greens to the request. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e21174	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Schmid is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e21264	Next speaker: Mr Grillitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e21285	Mr President. Federal Minister! The Obersteiermark is a region that has been in constant change in recent years and will continue to be in the future. We all remember just too well the collapse of the nationalized industry. Nevertheless, many of the leading companies in the core zone of the Mur-Mürz-Furche have succeeded in finding that we have many great small small businesses, many rural enterprises in the side valleys and tourism companies. have. A region that's booming. Didi Mateschitz is investing in this region with the Red Bull Ring. But from politics and especially from transport policy, I must say, we have experienced the upper Styria as a stepchild in the last six to seven years: lack of expansion of the S 36, no continuation of the S 37 in the extension to the south of Carinthia. We all know that the infrastructure is the most important thing to ensure that people in these regions – wherever they are at home – have a connection so that they can continue to live there so that they can find work there so that there is income there so that there is purchasing power there. That is why I ask you, Mr Federal Minister, if you travel to the Obersteiermark the next time and make a local eye-catching on a construction site, not only are you looking for the conversation with some journalists, but you are also looking for a conversation with the region's responsibilities! You will tell you what this region urgently needs: not only the extension of the S 36 and the continuation of the S 37, but we also need an S-Bahn, especially from Unzmarkt to Murau and to Tamsweg. If you remember that you drive the 162 kilometers from Graz to Tamsweg in three hours and ten minutes, then this is really a disadvantage. A comparison shows that the train from Vienna to Salzburg is only two hours away. That is why, Minister of State: Please support It is this really essential measure to drive this S-Bahn forward, because the Obersteiermark has to fight with emigration. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinzl.]] In order to counteract this migration, we need infrastructure if you have not yet understood this, Mr. Transport Speakers of the SPÖ. They should also work to ensure that the expansion of the rail, road and, parallel to this S-Bahn, broadband development is promoted so that the world enters the village and so that people can find work there in the future. [[Sustained calls of the Abg. Heinzl]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e21339	Next word: Mr El Habbassi. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e21367	After the rulers have now discussed, I would like to draw attention to an important transport policy issue. [[Abg. Heinzl: We're not finished yet!]] – There is certainly the opportunity afterwards to involve Mr Heinzl. But I think it's important that you give us boys a hearing, because that's much too rarely done in this house anyway. That is why I would like to address a subject that is very important to us youth speakers, where we are concerned with achieving and moving forward. It is about mobility for young people and especially for students that it is a fundamental need, but it is very expensive. There are examples in the state of Salzburg where students living in the region pay 230 € in the semester for their tickets only to get to the place of study. That's about 500 € a year. This is too much for young people to be able to use public transport – especially at an age in which traffic behaviour is also influenced. That is why it is important and right that we boys have come together here together to wake up again and remember that in the government programme we agreed that, like the offer for young people in education, we are also creating an offer for students. That is why I would like to make the following request today on behalf of my colleague Katharina Kucharovich and all the other youth speakers who have always made a strong contribution to this matter: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would like it to remain not only with a pious sense of will and with a constant shift, but that something is finally happening here, that we are addressing the problem. The students throughout Austria will thank you. Sustainable transport behaviour with a strong use of public transport is something we all wish for. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e21424	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mr El Habbassi is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e21485	No one is reporting on this. I therefore conclude the debate. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. Agenda item 9: Draft Federal Act amending the Motorways Act, including the title and entry into 510 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to agree to this draft at third reading too, to give a sign. – This is also adopted by a majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. Vote on agenda item 10: Draft federal law amending the public passenger and regional transport law, including the title and receipt in 511 of the Supplements. Whoever is in favour of this bill, please give a sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever agrees to this draft at third reading, I ask for a sign. – In turn, this is the majority. The draft was therefore adopted at third reading. Debates of the European Parliament Brunner, colleagues in terms of Yes to more train and bus for Southburgenland – No to S 7. Whoever is for that, please give a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. Debates of the European Parliament Brunner, colleagues on the Friedberg–Oberwart–Hungary railway. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Whoever is for that, please give a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. vote on the motion for a resolution by Mrs El Habbassi, Mr Kucharovich, Mr Kucharovich, on the further development of the public transport tariff offer for students (student ticket). Whoever is for that, please give a sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. (E 75.) Agenda item 11: Proposal from the Transport Committee to take note of its report 549 of the supplements. I ask for your consent. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Angerer, colleagues, on the future financing of public transport in rural areas and on the possibility of alternative forms of operation. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. Vote on agenda item 12: Proposal from the Transport Committee to take note of its report 550 of the supplements. Whoever is here, please give a sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. [[19:02:34]] 13. Point Report of the Transport Committee on the Government template (460, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law, which amends a Federal Law on the Agency for Passenger and Passenger Rights and the Railway Law 1957, the Motorways Act, the Aviation Act, the Shipping Act and the Consumer Authority Cooperation Act (PFAG) (551 d.b.) 14. Point Report by the Transport Committee on Amendment No 765/A(E) by Dr Harald Walser, colleagues in relation to ÖBB's passenger cabins in connection with combined tickets at combined borders (552 d.b.) 15. Point Report by the Transport Committee on the motion for a resolution (Doc.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e21696	We now come to points 13 to 15 of the agenda, on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Hafenecker, has been mentioned. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e21725	Mr President. Federal Minister! In my speech, I refer to the establishment of an interlocutory body for passenger rights. We have this discussion against the background of the already ongoing infringement procedure with the EU. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Against this background, we will give the FPÖ the consent to this institution, although with abdominal pain. I can also say why. The reason for this is the division of the costs in this matter, with 40 percent of the costs being borne by the economy and 60 percent by the federal government. We ask ourselves why this division must come about in this way. I can say that a Conciliation Body should be primarily a sovereign issue, a sovereign body and therefore completely subject to the State from the funding. We do not understand why a potential party is being used in a conciliation procedure for the financing of this body. Furthermore, we see the danger that perhaps in future, if the economy is involved in the financing, even sometime, representatives of interest, will participate in this Chamber. Every thought can now be given about how the various procedures can proceed. All in all, there will be a reduction in costs that the economy will take on the passengers to whom customers will take appropriate action. We believe that this solution in this form is not very skillful and not very useful. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] By the way, it has also seen – because I am hearing something from the sector of the ÖVP, which is almost dissolved by now – the Chamber of Commerce. The opinion of the Chamber of Commerce clearly states a real protest note against this allocation of costs. It is clear from the economy that: We don't want that! The Economic and Social Committee noted in the opinion that false calculations were the basis. This, too, has obviously not been taken into account. And there are many, many more criticisms. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, as has been said, we will give our consent to this law because we want to end the infringement procedure accordingly. But from a liberal point of view, a clean and good solution looks different. An arbitration body should not be charged to the economy and, above all, should not be charged to passengers on whom the costs are further reduced. That is why we will be voting in favour, but in the future we will also be presenting proposals for improvement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e21781	Next speaker: Mr Heinzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e21802	Federal Minister! Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, the happy message: Passenger rights for all modes of transport are extended, and besides compensation for delays or cancellations of flights or railways already available, there will also be compensation for shipping and bus transport in the future. An independent passenger and passenger rights agency will be installed, and in the event of delays, cancellations and so on, customers can contact and call this agency directly. The next positive message: This agency is expected to be in force right before the summer, so that people who have to buy delays or similar obstacles on holiday trips will already benefit from them. Ladies and gentlemen, as has already been said, as an independent body in disputes, the future conciliation body should lead to a common dispute resolution. This saves consumers and entrepreneurs the often lengthy and cost-intensive legal path, which, of course, will remain open to everyone in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, the experience with the previous interlocutory bodies for air transport and rail transport has shown that in far more than 90 percent of the disputes, these can be done positively and without civil court proceedings. I am convinced that this new regulation will lead to even more customer satisfaction, and that is also the meaning of this conciliation body. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e21844	I call Mr Walser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e21866	Mr President. High house! Let me comment on a situation which, in Vorarlberg, has quite heated up the moods. We all want more people to change to public transport. We all want achievements like the 365 Euro ticket to be used. Starting from Vienna, we have already reached Greens in Vorarlberg from the opposition point of view that this ticket has been introduced and it works. It worked in Vienna, it works in Vorarlberg, it works in other federal states. More and more people have changed. Since Tyrol is interesting for many Vorarlbergers in several ways, Vorarlberger passengers have increasingly changed to a – a bit more expensive – combined ticket in Tyrol and now have the Tyrolean and the Vorarlberger ticket. And then not a few were very amazed: You drive from Innsbruck to Bregenz and you have to pay from St. Anton's punishment because the ticket is valid for the entire area in Tyrol and applies to the whole area in Vorarlberg, but you must not take the same train from Tyrol to Vorarlberg. That means you have to get off in St. Anton and get back into the next train. Then the ticket is valid, otherwise not. That's an absurd situation. The Vorarlberger Nachrichten have written a report entitled: “Grobes Foul from behind against the train drivers” – and I can only support it. This is a situation that no one understands. Now I am still in the ears of the discussion from the Committee on Transport. Of course, this is a matter that needs to be resolved in the interconnected area, but there are requirements for the ÖBB. For those concerned must pay the higher rate of the ÖBB. We therefore call on the Ministers for Transport to become active in this context and to clear this reluctance by means of an Austrian-wide scheme. This has already been achieved in some cases – between Tyrol and Salzburg, at least if it is only over Austrian territory. That's where the transport associations made it themselves. In this context, however, I believe we have an Austrian-wide problem, because we all want road users in all federal states to change to a corresponding ticket. Mr Verkehrsminister, therefore our request to you to become active in this context. Support In contrast to what happened in the Committee, please make this request. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e21911	The amendment has been explained in its main points and is therefore under negotiation. [[Abg. Walser holds his right hand with raised thumb in height.]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e21984	Next speaker: Mr Ottenschlager. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e22006	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, High house! Mr Walser, in the short run perhaps the two Landesverferenten from Tyrol and Vorarlberg should talk about this subject. [[Abg. Walser: You do it!]] If they do, it's good. However, I have also said in committee that I think it is important to discuss the new rules in the context of the financial compensatory negotiations. That's where it belongs. I would like to comment briefly on the passenger and passenger rights agency. The advantages have already been implemented by Mr Anton Heinzl. Maybe to Colle-gen Hafenecker a few words to explain it: This agency is a professional if you like, mediation agency. That means that we may save ourselves – and with “we” I also mean the companies – expensive civil processes. A mediation procedure is also set up in such a way that both parties make their monetary contribution. Of course, the economy does not shout Hurra!, but at the end of the day there was a reasonable compromise. I would like to express my thanks to the industry at this point, to the transport companies, that they are willing to make their contribution. I think it's a contribution to consumers. It is a single interlocutory point for all passengers. It's a sort of debureaucratisation. It is more transparent and accessible. I am also very curious about how the Green Group, which voted against in committee, will vote. I have not yet heard any opinion on how your vote will be, because it is not really clear to me why and why you can vote against such a new agency. I would ask you perhaps to consider this in the short term and to agree to this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e22045	I call Mr Pock. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e22067	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! I would first like to go to the newly established Conciliation Point and join my previous speakers Ottenschlager and Hafenecker. We also support this proposal with abdominal pain. It is indeed true that at first glance additional costs amounting to €300 000 to €500 000 will be paid to the transport industry. The focus here is also on air traffic. On the other hand, however, significant reductions in costs are achieved on the administrative side through saved procedures. To sum up, I assume that it is at least a zero-sum game, if not even a slight debureaucratisation for the economy. In concrete terms, I would also like to respond to Mr Walser's request, which was rejected by the Committee, namely to the connecting tickets that do not apply beyond the boundaries of the grouping. There you have to get out, get back in; it has already been described here in the plenary. I would like to refer to a fact of why we in the House have a number of changes to do with the financing structure behind them. I would now like to describe it this way: As regards the operation of the ÖBB – that is, we are not talking about this billion moloch, which we are talking about over and over again, but we are talking about 970 million € from 2013 – on the one hand, we are distributing about the Ministry of Transport towards the railway, on the other hand about the financial compensation via the Ministry of Finance and then about the countries towards the railway, then again about the Ministry of Family Affairs and Youth to the train with the student tickets. At the same time, the federal government, the countries, sometimes the municipalities in turn finance the railways; of course, third parties who order the corresponding services, and not least the guests. It is a structure which, from the financing side, is hardly manageable. What is more, this funding does not create incentives for cooperation. In my last speech, I spoke about the fact that our approach would be that regional public transport is financed and actually ordered from the countries. If this were brought together, it would be much stronger to encourage individual allies or, for example, between Lower Austria and Vienna, to cooperate more closely and to vote. This would be central and would be decided by the National Council. Why can't we do it right now? – The reason is banal: There are no data available to compare the individual allies accordingly. There's no benchmarking. At the moment, I cannot say what kind of association is acting in what degree of professionalization and where we can draw out and learn from the other activities. As long as we don't have these data, we can hardly take the next steps. Therefore, it is high time – I have also made a request today – to collect the relevant data, then to make a benchmarking, to learn from the best and to create appropriate incentives so that federal states and allies can cooperate in such a way that a passenger can travel from A to B without having to leave and get back in because of a border. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e22122	Next speaker: Mr Hell. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e22143	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If it is assumed that there has been a steady expansion of passenger rights in rail and air transport in recent years, then of course the need to extend these passenger rights to other areas, such as bus and shipping. Already in the government programme, the aim is to improve the enforcement of passenger rights and to seek a cross-trafficking point for passenger rights. With today's decision, it will not matter whether bus, train, aircraft or ship, because: Passengers will be able to contact a central interlocutory body in the event of delays and other disputes. Ladies and gentlemen, we know that passenger problems are often very versatile. They perform during the ride, before the ride, after that. Often it is problems arising from external circumstances or, of course, from information failures. However, the following applies to all: They are always unpleasant for the passengers and often also associated with very high costs. That is why I very much appreciate it. Ladies and gentlemen – and my previous speakers have mentioned it – this new conciliation body is very important. In this context, it is also essential that it is established that these treatments must be dealt with quickly and that a decision should be taken within 90 days. It is also new that there will be a cross-border field of action, and this agency will also be used in future as a conciliation body for rights for people with disabilities and reduced mobility. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Today's decision-making will further strengthen consumer rights, and I can You shall request your consent. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e22192	Mrs Mag. Aubauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e22213	Mr President. Appreciate Mr. Minister! High house! My previous speaker has already described very intrusively how many of us have already gone: The train is delayed, the flight fails, the bus does not come in scheduled or other troubles. Then how does the passenger get to his right? – The pleasure is: In the future, this will succeed faster and probably with less trouble for all of us. We assumed in the Committee that: What is the use of humans? If a trip didn't work that way and you want to complain, how can it work without going to court? There is also this new, independent, uniform conciliation body. On the criticism of the opposition: Yes, the work of art should succeed, more rights for passengers, less bureaucracy, and the cost should also be reduced because it is just possible to save expensive proceedings at court. Indeed, the success rate in Conciliation Points is very high, about 90 percent of the procedures are concluded positively. Minister Stöger! At the beginning of the main travel period, this new post will be available, and you will certainly let us know where and how it is available, and you will apply for it so that many can use it. As a senior representative, I am particularly concerned about improvements for older consumers, and we have asked ourselves: What do the older ones need? – They want to be mobile at any age. This is very important, since this desire exists, the seniors want to maintain mobility for quality of life in old age, for self-determined living and also for social integration. What does that mean to us politicians? – No matter where you live, whether in a city or in the rural area, there must be public mobility services. Some communities today already offer senior entaxis or other offers, that is, because creativity is not set a limit. The group of older people is growing, that is, we should take this increasingly into account. There's a lot to do, we'll pack it up!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e22253	Mr Stöger spoke on a point of view. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e22275	Mr President. High house! I am glad that everyone says very clearly: We strengthen the rights of consumers and passengers – this is exactly what it is all about. Mrs Aubauer has referred to it as: We see traffic from the perspective of those concerned and ask ourselves how we can support it. This is the new way we want to go, we want to reduce administration for the authorities, therefore a job, but we also want to improve the enforcement of legislation for consumers, and therefore also a job to do so. To save administrative costs. How's it going? – You have experienced a performance disorder in traffic, the train has come too late or not at all, the flight has been postponed or the voyage has not worked: It's best to write to the affected company. If the company concerned does not react on its own initiative in good time and sets out measures to compensate for damages, the way to the Conciliation Body is free. The Conciliation Body decides very quickly, and it is free for consumers. This is very crucial – it is free, the Federal Ministry of Transport, Innovation and Technology finances 60 percent. I would also like to thank the industry for being willing to say that it takes over 40 percent of the total cost. The undertaking concerned has a reason to do so without the appeal of the Conciliation Body to make a compensation or to put in place an appropriate measure. This is also the explanation why the industry itself has 40 percent to pay. In this sense, this is once again a contribution to improving passengers' rights, and this also makes it clear that we have a good system in Austria. We are a country that has developed public transport very well, where people have an offer. People use this, and now they come to their right even if it does not work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e22320	Next, Mr Bacher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e22341	Mr President. Thank you, Minister of State! High house! On the ‘passenger’ by the ÖBB: I would like to say very clearly that the ÖBB and its employees are certainly not harassing passengers! [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Aubauer.]] As a representative of the region referred to in the request, the Pinzgaus with the country of Tyrol, I am very well aware of the subject of the transhipments in the transport association. We also have this problem, if Pendler from Lofer, from the room Saalfelden have to commute to Tirol, but also students have to make this transition. The fact that there can be solutions is evident from the example of the top ticket in Lower Austria, Burgenland, Styria and Vienna, where students and apprentices can use public transport at any time across the country cost-effectively, and in Vienna, Lower Austria and in Burgenland this not only for school and return, but also for leisure activities. The top ticket is co-financed through the family compensation fund, which was also decided here in this House a few years ago. In principle, however, the issue of tickets is located in the transport associations, and this means that the competent persons, the trading pears – the transport councils – must sit together and work out a solution. We at the federal level have also contributed a step towards this, the Passenger Rights Agency Act and the Conciliation Agency are exemplary for this. Austria is a relatively small country, and it cannot be so difficult for the responsible people to sit down and get a proper solution. This is the first time we have been working for our citizens. Our goal must be to give rise to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e22390	Mr Rädler. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e22411	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! It was discussed in great detail about the Federal Agency for Such Conflicts, set up for passengers, about the advantages – some also see disadvantages or need for recovery at this institution. However, if we assume that 60 percent of the federal government is paying for these mediation procedures – that is about €370 per procedure – and 40 percent pays for the economy, then this is up to the consumer. He now has a point of contact, and he has the opportunity to reach a decision very quickly through administrative simplification, red tape reduction. We want to make decisions in the matter of mediation that are agreed. That was 90 percent of the decisions so far. I do not really understand the position of the FPÖ, so I would have assigned it to another political camp, that the state has everything to pay. The companies are those who sell the tickets that also have the revenue. I therefore believe that it is also justified that 40 percent of companies will be applied in such procedures. Mr. Federal Minister Stöger, I would like to ask you very briefly. I have put forward a parliamentary request concerning the region in the south of Lower Austria, the alternate region and the possibility of taking up the motorway in the alternate area in the direction of Graz. Due to the development in the area of this region, problems are frequently encountered in the case of companies, the orientation to Graz is currently not taken into account at all. It will therefore be most urgent to enter into negotiations with the ASFINAG in order to achieve that there is a connecting point in the direction of Graz. Thank you, thank you in advance for your efforts.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e22451	No one has made any mention of this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 13: Draft passenger and passenger rights law in 460 of the Supplements. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled a motion for an amendment. First of all, I shall vote on the part of the proposed amendment and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted on. Members Willi, colleagues and I have tabled an amendment to Rule 1. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a sign. – That is the minority and therefore rejected. We shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law as it stands, and I will ask those members of the House who are in favour of it for a positive sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted on, including the title and receipt in the version of the draft government, and I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 14: Proposal from the Transport Committee to take note of its report 552 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Finally, we come to the vote on agenda item 15: Proposal from the Transport Committee to take note of its report 553 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. [[19:32:50]] 16. Point Transport Committee report on the Government template (492, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Shipping Act (554 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e22556	We're going to the 16th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. I call Mr Keck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e22583	Mr President. Federal Minister! The government template for the revision of the Shipping Act has the purpose of linking the permit of a ship's plant to the rights of private use of the respective properties. So far, it has been the case that the withdrawal of the lease, which had included the landen rights, should only result in the withdrawal of the ship's permit after three years. Ladies and gentlemen, you have to imagine that as if you were renting a house that will sometime cancel tenants and you have to wait three years later until you can make a new tenant contractually, because the old tenant has the sole parking and access right to your property three years after termination. These were these two legislative novels, and that is why we do not need much to recognise the urgent need for innovation of this regulation. In practice, this still somewhat bizarre arrangement has led to the fact that these lantern rights could not simply be re-allocated, but that re-allocations would have been possible only after the three-year waiting period, and no new leases could be concluded within this waiting period. That is why, in these three years' time, the Federal Government will also have a major role to play in this area. In the worst case, this financial loss could have been these three years and, accordingly, it could be high. If these properties are public property, the award of rights of use could also be hindered in the interests of the best possible performance of public tasks. In carrying out the public tasks, for example, are those of the economic and ecological development of the docks or the mode of transport waterway or the guarantee of environmentally sound shipping, and in addition, it has led to an unfair preference for the public of owners, i.e. those players who had such an old lease contract. However, in order to change these somewhat contradictory facts, the adaptation of the type-approval to private law will be encouraged. Simpler expression: The conclusion of a rental contract also means that there is no right to a waiting period of three years. This innovation is no longer likely to affect the use of these properties by the legitimate owner at the end of the contractual relationship. Ladies and gentlemen, you see that the proposed amendment finally creates clarity in shipping law as well as in private law and contributes to absolute legal certainty in future disputes.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e22628	Mr Singer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e22650	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As explained in detail, this amendment to the Federal Law concerns maritime permits. Mr Keck has explained this very detailedly. We too have a positive view of these changes and we support this amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to take this opportunity to deal with the Danube as a waterway. In my opinion, the strengthening of the Danube waterway is forward-looking, and that is why this has also been included in the government programme. The National Action Plan for Danube Shipping is the basis for implementation, and the completion of the Plan 2016 to 2022 is very important and also to be forced from my point of view. Unfortunately, the increased volume of transport to 25 million tonnes has not been achieved in the resulting action plan at Weitem, and therefore the Danube needs to be more integrated into the existing logistics chains through the expansion of the hinterland connection and the use of cross-road information systems. In this context, it is particularly important to ensure the reliable shipability of the Danube, the required depth of unloading of 2.50 metres, throughout the shipable length of the Danube. The Danube can be shipped at 2 415 kilometres, and in Austria in particular the sections in the Wachau and east of Vienna are affected. From my point of view, Austria is required not only to eliminate these bottlenecks in Austria by means of fluorinated measures, but from my point of view also the task of forcing and supporting measures in neighbouring countries. Not to be underestimated is also the question of reducing lock revision times. There are also potentials. I believe that the Danube has an economic and ecological potential, which, in my view, is still highly expandable. As an international waterway, the Danube connects Central Europe with the economic areas in Western Europe and the Black Sea region and can also be the engine for a broad development of this region. The further expansion of the Danube as a waterway, the improvement of shipping and the construction of multimodal terminals for the integration of the hinterland are important measures to further develop the economic areas along the Danube as far as possible. Take advantage of the diverse opportunities of the Danube! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e22708	This is what Mr Hafenecker has to say. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e22729	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I, too, am referring to this change in the Shipping Act, and I think it is no longer necessary, since it is still very detailed after Mr Keck has explained all this very precisely. I can also announce that we will agree to this proposal for a law. But we would still have a wish in this area, namely: This change of law would also have provided an opportunity to improve the situation of the pilots of these ships. We have already discussed this in committee. There is the concrete example in Krems, where a shipping station for Danube cruise ships was almost overnight approved and also built. The problem has occurred that these ships, which have a very large power consumption, have to run the generators overnight, because there is no adequate power connection there. And this is a considerable burden for the people there with regard to the noise that results from it. This change of law would have been an opportunity to anchor the need to ensure adequate power supply for these ship-owners. In this context, there has been a question from our colleague, Mr Rosenkranz, to the Federal Minister. The Federal Minister said, however, that these connections would not be adequate. We believe that it is appropriate to make these connections. It is currently making a lot of money with these berths, which is why it could be ensured and thus also protect the arrants accordingly. I would like to see a little adjustment in this direction and to improve the rights of the locals accordingly. Krems Mayor Resch, a party friend of the Federal Minister, has also announced that he would like to present a resolution on this matter. I am excited whether we can continue this discussion.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e22770	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 492 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That is unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[19:42:18]] 17. Point Report by the Transport Committee on Amendment 233/A(E) by Mrs Georg Willi, colleagues on secure financing for road maintenance and public transport by a comprehensive truck toll (555 d.b.) 18. Point Report by the Transport Committee on Amendment No 826/A(E) by Mr Christoph Hagen, Members and colleagues, on 'Vignette am Kfz-Kennecke' (556 D.B.) 19. Point Report by the Committee on Transport on Amendment 958/A(E) by Mr Christoph Hagen, Members and colleagues, on 'Annual toll labels' (557 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e22852	We now come to points 17 to 19 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e22879	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I refer to Mr Willi's request for a comprehensive truck toll. Mr Willi, I have only been able to shake my head on the request and I would also like to explain why. I am absolutely convinced that the application is based on good intentions and that you have certainly done so according to best knowledge and conscience, but you should nevertheless consider what the implementation of this proposal would mean for the transport industry and in general. Rural transport companies would be sold immediately with a complete capacity and would be heavily disadvantaged due to their peripheral location. It can also be said that these plants would be driven into ruin, Mr Willi; and I believe that this cannot have been the intention of your request. This would, of course, also involve the loss of jobs in rural areas. We all know the developments in the peripheral regions as far as rural flight is concerned. I may refer in my federal state to the forest district, but also to my district, the district of Lilienfeld. So it wouldn't make the situation any better, land flight would be the result. Another imbalance in infrastructure would also be the result, because of course there would only be more plants where the corresponding rail infrastructure is there. Mr. Willi, you know that 26 secondary trains were locked in Lower Austria, so you also know what would be well ahead of us. So I think that this proposal is well meant in the sense of the environment, but it is not ready. I would like to refer to the following: There is already a comprehensive toll, if you want to call it so, for the truck traffic, just that means mineral oil tax for us. So if you drive a lot, you pay a lot; if you don't drive a lot, you don't pay much. If we could still achieve that this mineral oil tax is intended, Mr Willi, then your intention to maintain the infrastructure would be sufficient.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e22928	I call Mr Bacher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e22949	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! In order to apply for a comprehensive truck toll, it must be noted at the outset that in Austria all roads under the responsibility of the federal government, BMVIT, are already subject to the toll obligation by the ASFINAG. An extension of the toll to the network of the Landes- und Gemeindestraßen falls mainly in the area of responsibility of the countries and the municipalities or in the case of a general levy in the area of the Federal Ministry of Finance. Against the background that there is a massive need for funding in the coming years due to the increased maintenance measures, a discussion and a call for a comprehensive truck toll is quite understandable. In my region too, the truck toll is very often discussed. But we are more concerned with “toad refugees”, the fact that very many trucks are passing through the villages. That is why the people in our regions of massive air pollution and noise pollution have been delivered and are therefore also dangerous to health. There are also some safety problems when the large trucks are driving across the small roads: Some transporters led by the Navi have already stood in front of a too small bridge or a too low underpass and could not continue. In part, the places then help to ban transit traffic for trucks. For these reasons, we will discuss the comprehensive truck toll. A feasibility study commissioned by BMVIT in 2008 concluded that a comprehensive truck toll could lead to significant negative effects on the economy and, subsequently, to the workplace, supply and price situation. Technically, it would be a comprehensive Truck tolls can be realized. However, a shift from heavy rail to rail could only be achieved with high charges. I would like to point out that Austria's vehicles are primarily affected by a toll. Already 94 percent of the driving power on national roads is concerned with regional and local transport. The increase in the price of products, which would be expected, must, above all, bear families with low and medium incomes, and many of them are particularly affected in my region. In summary, it must be said: Austria has a successful, cost-effective and EU-compatible technical system on motorways and highways. However, it would not be possible to do so by motivating all roads. Furthermore, there is currently no toll system for heavy vehicles covering the entire road network in any EU country. In the end, the national leaders are in demand, whose responsibility lies with a comprehensive truck toll. In its area of responsibility, the development of a transport concept acceptable to the population in the regions outside the urban area also falls. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e23003	I call Mr Willi. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e23025	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I'd like to take your fear. There is a country with a comprehensive truck moat, namely Switzerland, and it lives pretty well with it. You know, I'm a friend of numbers, facts and facts. The fact is: Austria's streets are bubbling more and more. A very up-to-date study, which will be available to the Landesverferenten on Thursday, says that 22 percent of the municipal and state road network has a conservation residue; Trends are rising sharply. If you have read the Court of Auditors report on road conditions in Styria compared to Burgenland, you have to read how bad it is about Austria's roads. First point. Second point: We have a traffic system that pays for comprehensive toll, that's the train. Why don't we get this on the streets? Gabi Moser smiles. And a third thing: We have tolls at ASFINAG. The ASFINAG road network has 2 200 kilometers, the municipal and national road network has 150 000 kilometers throughout Austria! You have to get it once, that costs money, so the idea of a comprehensive truck toll. If you say you reject it, okay, you're stupid. There are enough resolutions in the countryside, most recently unanimously in Salzburg, to help the countries with a comprehensive truck toll so that they can finance road conservation. Very simple: The countries want it. And I think the Federation has the duty to help there. So if you were to introduce such a comprehensive truck toll according to the model of the Asfinag – that's what the countries have studied – around € 650 million a year would come in. The money would be used for street preservation and for public development. These are huge challenges, and those who reject this accept that the road condition in Austria is getting worse and worse. I take the objection that you have raised very seriously: How does that affect? That's what the federal states have been asked to investigate. You know how? – If you go shopping by 100 €, after the shopping cart of the VPI, pay by 15 cents more. The price increase at the shopping cart is 0.15 percent. Now we're coming to the construction industry. Yeah, you have to take that seriously, it makes up 0.3 percent. Trade is 0.2 percent, mining is 1.4 percent. Only: Who benefits when we get roads? – Mining, because they deliver all the materials. That is, when you get roads, the transport industry in a particular sector has a slightly higher cost, but of course also a lot of orders because they have to do it. When I look at the whole thing nationally – and this concludes me, ladies and gentlemen – everything speaks for a comprehensive truck toll because the economic welfare effects are very high. It also gives the countries and municipalities the opportunity to finance the increasingly expensive public expansion. We need to bring our people to public transport, first of all important for climate protection and second, more cost-effective for the people. Caring, even if we currently have a more relaxed phase, will again become much more expensive. In order to be able to vote on this high funding requirement, we need this toll. I hope that the federal states will continue to do so courageously, because it is no different. Mr Minister, please support this.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e23089	Mr Ottenschlager. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e23110	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Dear Georg Willi, unfortunately you couldn't take my fear. [[Abg. Willi: Don't be afraid!]] - No, I'm sorry! You have to look at this differently. [[Abg. Moser: You're not a fright!]] - Can I talk? Thank you. You have to look at things differently. There are certainly some points that Mr Willi has rightly argued here. Personally, I'm just saying: In times like these, where we have a weak economy, where we have high burdens, where we have to get rid of these burdens, I believe, it is generally a bad sign when we talk about further pressures on the economy and especially in the rural area. You've got to see that. It's not always about the transport industry. It's about the craftsman, it's about the builder, it's about many businesses that would be affected by it. And what I don't understand is the argument that we should now introduce a system to ensure that the countries and communities get their roads. There's a system behind that. The federal roads have been handed over, with the corresponding budget, and it has not been properly spent in many areas intended for this purpose. But we cannot now be blamed. I think you really need to see things differentiated. Apart from that, we have not yet talked about what this means for investment. It's not that it costs nothing, hurra, we're introducing a wide-ranging truck toll, but there's a need for huge investments. Who's paying them? Can we afford that? You have to question all these things. There are many examples that show that all these systems have a slightly higher administrative burden than our pickerl system, for example. [[Abg. Moser: In Switzerland it is easy!]] Finally, I would like to say: I believe that under the current conditions we have in Austria – where we have to pay particular attention to rural areas, that it will not be further diluted, that farms will not settle down, but will go there, and that would be a scenario of which everyone says that this is perhaps the doll on the “i” – we should rather see how we can strengthen these locations. If that's done, and there are reasonable concepts, you can think about everything, but you haven't convinced me so far. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e23196	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e23217	Mr President. Federal Minister! High National Council! Ladies and gentlemen on the screens! I should like to make a few points on the request or on Mr Willi's speech from the Greens. We recently had an exchange here in Parliament with a delegation from the German Bundestag, the Transport Committee. Of the Greens there was no one present – at least not from Austria, from the Germans already. The chairman of this committee has said something remarkable – and this brings us to the cost of road: In Germany, the car drivers and road users collect €50 billion a year for the budget, and only €7.5 billion go to road construction; the rest disappears somewhere in the budget. I assume that this is no different in Austria. That is why I have already tabled appropriate requests; the answers are pending, but we will then be able to calculate them. I'll tell you. Anyway, I assume that this is similar to us: It would be enough money for the drivers to be bullied to build the streets well; you might even get them in gold, I can guarantee you. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Now let me come to my two applications, TOP 18 and TOP 19, concerning the vignette for vehicles. TOP 18 is about me not seeing that someone with a change mark has to stick to his own vignette for each vehicle he uses; for he can only drive a vehicle on the highway once, you pay for the use. This is again a pure take-out of the drivers. That is why I made the proposal to allow the vignette to stick to the mark. Since you can never use several cars at the same time with a single label, that would be fair and fair. I am surprised that both the government parties and the Greens did not want to go there, because that is actually a logical thing: Once driving, once paying – very simple thing. The argument has always been that this is not legible from the mark, because it is dirty or anything else; but if I look at the German toll system, which is in planning, I see that the Germans are doing this, they even have the testing vignette on the label above. In Germany, the toll will be read over the mark in future. This possibility would exist if technically possible. So why don't we do it? That would also be a saving in relation to the bureaucracy, because in this case you don't have to stick to a vignette anymore or similar, but you have it on the label above. Then let's continue to the vignette. TOP 19, the application concerning test vehicle markings. Today, a car dealer – or a car workshop – if he wants to use a blue label, this test vehicle mark and let someone drive on the motorway every two months, he has to buy a two-month ticket. But he doesn't have to stick to it, he can put it in the driving book. But it's not understandable to me why he can't buy an annual vignette, but always have to buy the two-month vignette, which makes him much more expensive in the year. It's kind of unmistakable. There should also be an annual vignette possible. She's in the drivebook, you can't use her differently. It's standard there, it's a clear thing. So, again, only money making to the disfavors of the entrepreneurs. That should stop. That is why this request is being made. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I can still come to another subject. I have already mentioned the German toll, but if I look at the situation in this country, the ASFINAG has increased the toll for the special tolls again. I noticed that the price for a single card in Schönberg has now been increased from €8.50 to €9 – this is an increase of 50 cents, i.e. 5.8 percent – and the price of the 3 Schönberg division has been increased from €2.50 to €3, so again by 50 cents, which is 20 percent. These increases are always justified by the fact that the price for the vignette and everything is increased inflationally, but I can't imagine that any of you in the hall or in front of the screens has received a wage increase of 20 percent or 5.8 percent, and inflation is not in this area either. So this is another waste disposal plant, which I do not think can be justified with anything. Mr Gahr von der ÖVP has also already submitted a petition to the President of the National Council for the abolition of the special toll on the A13 Brenner motorway for the purpose and source of transport. It called for a toll exemption for the population in the Wipptal and its side valleys. I think that's reasonable, but why only there. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] The reason is that I do not understand that the Austrians are, so to speak, repeatedly muttered. We have a highway pickerl, and we still have to pay for everything. In Germany, we have developed a toll that comes across the German drivers and drivers, who are already paying more than €15 billion a year, as I have said. In Austria, too, we should look at the drivers, for example, the commuters and all those who depend on the car and who are asked by this government only for the cash register. I'm looking for you to vote. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e23331	The application is sufficiently supported, properly submitted and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e23401	Next speaker: Mr Pock. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e23422	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! I would like to respond to Mr Willi's request from the Greens, which is about the comprehensive truck toll. We voted against in committee. We will not follow this request today, and I would like to justify it. What unites us is on the one hand the knowledge that, of course, we have to shift traffic from road to rail, and that one system is compared differently to another, namely road and rail. What we agree with is also the knowledge that we have billions of investments on municipal and state roads by 2020, and that at present neither the municipalities nor the countries know how to finance it. But there's already the end of the unit. I'm going to the numbers. You have assumed that we have 150 000 total road kilometres. According to my knowledge, it is 124 510, which are divided into 2 180 kilometres of federal roads, 33 660 kilometers of state roads and 88 670 kilometers of municipal roads. The current toll system refers to the 2 180 kilometers of federal roads. This can be justified against the background of the technology used. If we wanted to beautify all over Austria, we would have to switch technology to satellite technology. This, in turn, would have two consequences: Firstly, from my point of view, we would produce a burden on the economy of up to €400 million to €500 million. I understand that this would mean that, because we do not want to raise the tax rate, we have to go down with the taxes elsewhere. Secondly, the extension of a satellite-based system would actually lead to higher system costs than the existing system. However, if you calculate this correctly, we would hardly have any corresponding revenue. That means: We would not lose money from the economy, probably – with the existing government – and at the same time we would not have any added value in order to actually advance investment. [[Abg. Moser: The bill is certainly not that way!]] The third point, which I believe is relevant, both for businesses and later for private individuals, because this will of course be the next step, is as follows: Satellite-based systems mean that people move comprehensiblely at any time, and we from NEOS will certainly not take action to ensure that people are equipped with arrow transmitters, and that is not voluntary. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e23465	Mr Schellenbacher. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e23486	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Estimated Ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens and on the visitor gallery! I refer to Agenda Points 18 and 19 in my statement. These are two negative reports from the Transport Committee. Agenda item 19 concerns the annual vignette for test and transfer marks: As Mr Hagen has said, I see no reason why this is not possible on the basis of an annual vignette. The annual vignette is an important instrument. The test drive is actually there to determine the technical performance of a vehicle. The fact that a service to the security that our entrepreneurs – i.e. the businesses carrying out this review – provide is to be paid with the nearly double the fees of an annual vignette is simply not to be seen. So I'm looking for: Think about it again! Why not allow an annual vignette and abandon these 10-day and two-month vignettes? On agenda item 18 with regard to the affixing of the vignette in the identification: Mr. Federal Minister – I would like to confirm it to you – Austria has the best developed traffic-telematic and toll system. It is sufficient for the highest technical standards, although this is not only carried out in the field of traffic telematics, even in the tunnels it is so that the highest standards of safety are observed. The lighting in tunnels must comply with minimum lighting and minimum uniformity in order to avoid certain effects that are dangerous to safety. Transport telecommunication devices such as swap signs, swap text displays or information boards must meet the highest standards and must avoid glare and any negative influences. At the same time, the legislator allows a vignette to stick in the car – and it not only allows it, but also permits it – and brings with it negative properties, for example, that in areas along noise protection walls, at night or in the tunnel stroboscopic effects and indirect blending are provoked. I would therefore like to ask you: Let's go away from the vignette we have in the car, which limits the field of view, to an e-Vignette! Support You already have existing tests in the field of cooperative systems, a continuous Wi-Fi and an e-Vignette. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e23535	Mrs Pfurtscheller is speaking next time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e23556	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Georg Willi, I too am referring to your request for a comprehensive truck toll, and I am hardly surprising about it. I would like to highlight two aspects which have already been worked out by my colleagues, but which are also very important to me. The first one is: In your reasoning, you argue – and you at least take the media reference to a study of the AK – that private households would not be marginally burdened by a comprehensive truck toll or only very marginally. However, the AK also notes – Mr Pock has just said – that this toll would bring about €500 million a year. If it doesn't pay the households if it doesn't pay the consumers, it'll have to pay anyone – and if you think about who that is, then of course, only the transport industry and the businesses in Austria will remain. In the current but rather weak and sensitive economic situation it would be, I believe, a false signal, a new tax system or a new burden on the economy – for what you Greens have been thinking about is nothing but new taxes. [[Abg. Moser: We have a very low oil price! The trucks would have to get the roads!]] The second point, which is even more important to me personally, concerns rural areas. I believe that your argument as to rural areas is lagging behind. I can already understand that when you come from the city – that is, Innsbruck – that is a little different. This study of the AK quoted by you also suggests that various mass goods would then be transferred to the railway, like for example, I quote: Beetroots, potatoes or wood. It all sounds very good and nice, and it might also fit somehow in the Inntalfurche or around Innsbruck, but in the really poor regions outside with us, there is not even a good rail connection. We can't move anything to the track at all, because nothing is there. Therefore, our rural production companies would have to expect increased transport costs – and we all know how difficult it is to keep farms in the regions as a whole. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Moser.]] We often only owe it to the committed owners and to the family commitment that there is that they are still in the region outside at all. If you add any taxes or “tolls” – as you call it, but I believe that they are simply taxed – then the locations are clearly in danger. In the structurally weak areas, we really depend on every single farm, and I mean not some small craftsmen, but also larger businesses, as in the Apart from some metalworking plants, which are absolutely important to us. Every job really is important, and that is why I am against it and reject your request.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e23602	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e23623	Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleague Willi, don't be afraid – that's almost a bit Biblical – so: Don't be afraid, it won't take you and your colleagues, nor the drivers. What does that mean in detail? – Once again, your request is not bad with the basic structure, but it is once again about the But. We need money for the streets, that's quite clear. There are three – actually four – problem areas, because we say that the application is worthy of improvement. The fourth point with which I am starting briefly is the Commissioner, Commissioner Bulc, who would like to see the EU over in a national matter. That's not what we're against, but that's not part of it. We are here for Austria, and that is the three following points. The first point concerns, as Mr Hagen has already said, the collection of the tax. We need, if we want to have a toll system, a system that is as simple as possible. That means no satellites, no masts, no cameras, no software – as simple as possible, because that's cheap. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Moser.]] The second problem that needs to be addressed is the use of money and the distribution of money in the countries. I also believe – and I have talked not only to the Landesrat Kurzmann, but also to other transport councillors – that there is really little money there. But why is there little money? – Because in the state government, mostly in agreement, it is saved and budget renovated, and part of it is the transport and road budget. Now you could say: The financial compensation should then be improved. But then we move the debt of countries into the federal government and vice versa – and that is not a solution either. The third problem is: If we generate resources, how do we use them wisely? How do we distribute this to the individual roads, to the sectors? Dear Georg Willi, we have a system that is ideal for all these things – and this system is so simple that there is no need for toll collection costs. It's environmentally friendly. I know you're talking about climate – I always say: Economics. You're talking about the division in the country – I'm saying, in principle, it's about Austria. This system works so that someone who needs more, because he has a bigger, more powerful engine, pays more taxes. Those who have a lower power engine pay less. Those who drive a lot, pay a lot of toll and a lot of tax, and those who drive little pay less. This system is called mineral oil tax! Let's just do it again, as in earlier times, with a commitment to purpose, then we have everything we need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e23683	Mr Stöger spoke on a point of view. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e23705	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I wanted to make another statement on the subject of toll because I did not want to leave it that way. First: This House has decided on which streets a state government and for which a federal government is responsible. For those streets for which the covenant is responsible, there is a comprehensive toll. The transport representatives of the countries are invited to draw up a joint opinion if they also want a comprehensive truck toll in their federal states. That is the subject again and again, but perhaps by the elections there have been changes in the federal states, so that one may also come to this conclusion. [[Abg. Moser: So when it comes?]] Overall and internationally, the Austrian toll system is a best practice example in Europe. There are many ministers who come to me and say: We also want to introduce what you are doing in Austria to other countries! Why? – Because first of all it is ensured that the money that comes from the budget is also made available for the expansion of the transport infrastructure. This will also be taken note of by the industry, and many other countries would like to do so. Secondly, With our model, we are able to keep the roads on a high quality level and also at a high level of safety. We have roads, highways and highways to build in Austria, which have high technical requirements. This is due to the location in Austria. What I wanted to put right – this is important to me: Especially the German toll that is being discussed does not make sure that the people themselves can decide which road they use and whether they pay a toll. With us in Austria you can decide for yourself. If you don't use a motorway, you don't need to buy a pickerl. [[Abg. Moser: Yes, that's why we have the evasion traffic!]] In the Federal Republic of Germany, according to the current proposal, every holder of the authorisation is obliged to pay the toll – if he gets it back then, I want to look at it first. In our system, in reality, the people themselves decide, and I think that is the right thing to do. I would just like to say by the way: We said in Austria – and this is what this House has decided: Every single vehicle has a pickerl to have. [[Abg. Hagen: You can change that!]] In this respect, the regulation we have made for the industry is a practical one. The fact that you can buy a two-month pickerl and use it for multiple vehicles is a pragmatic proposal that I consider to be good overall. Let me explain how the current state of play is about the German toll. The German Bundestag has adopted a bill to this end. This is not yet legal, because the German Federal Council still has to decide on it. With the text that has been adopted at the moment, Austrian experts tell me that it is not in accordance with European law. We have remained so with the European Commission that the European Commission has to examine this and we reserve ourselves that, if this law is illegal – and we are currently assuming – we also take all necessary steps to bring an action before the European Court of Justice. But first, the European Commission is on the train. We have also voted on this with all the neighbouring countries. We are waiting for how the German Federal Government or the German legislation makes the decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e23782	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 17: Proposal from the Transport Committee to take note of its report 555 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall also proceed to the vote on agenda item 18: Proposal from the Transport Committee to take note of its report 556 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall also proceed to the vote on agenda item 19: Proposal from the Transport Committee to take note of its report 557 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hagen, colleagues, on the suspension of special road tolls for domestic cars and motorcycles. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is rejected. [[20:21:49]] 20. Point Report by the Committee on Transport on Amendment No 580/A(E) by Mr Christian Hafenecker, Mr MA, colleagues, on the introduction of a yellow middle line on roads (558 d.b.) 21. Point Report by the Committee on Transport on motion for a resolution 160/A(E) by Mr Christoph Hagen, colleagues, on the use of single-track motor vehicles (559b)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e23883	We now come to the points 20 and 21 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e23912	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! What is the point of our request? – Briefly summarized: ==References== In the context of the Vienna Agreement, the 1994 road traffic regulation novels were determined to replace the yellow road lines currently in force by white lines. Relatively soon, drivers, but above all professional drivers, realized that the middle line is simply and significantly worse visible compared to previously. This was, of course, particularly true in the event of adverse weather conditions such as rain, snow and fog. I have taken a picture that in reality should also illustrate that you see a yellow line in the snow better than a white one. [[The speaker holds a photograph that shows two people on a street with yellow mid strips.]] It is probably not because of the fact that orange markings are used in Austria, especially in construction sites, for example in inconspicuous locations on motorways and so on. In the Federal Republic of Germany, for example, the yellow color is used here, precisely because it is signal colors and because it is better to distinguish inconspicuous places. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it is therefore simply a question of the house mind whether you see white or yellow better. I can calm you down: It is an absolutely ideology-free debate that we have here. I would like to give an example from the Transport Committee. There, Mr Willi said that it would be preferable for him to have no transport guidelines at all, no guidelines; we would, as it were, only have zones of meeting. I told Mr Willi: At the meeting zones I wish him a lot of fun on the southeast tangent at four to six tracks, I wish him a lot of fun on a multitrack circular traffic and so on. I think the house mind tells us that this would be little targeting. If I still stay at these complicated intersections and circles, it is clear: These lines are simply there to help us concentrate. You need less concentration when you see where the track is, when you see where the turnoff track is, and if you don't have to think about it in a traffic-free zone, so to speak. I think that's what we're talking about. That's the problem, especially in winter: With us in the alpine region, these lines can no longer be seen. One loses the overview of traffic, so to speak. It is – and this is also the reason for our request – simple and profoundly dangerous. I was just a little annoyed at the discussion in the Transport Committee on this request because it was apparently not read. The FPÖ is not about us changing this from today to tomorrow. It is only about the FPÖ that we are saying: There are no scientific studies on this – let's get some! Let us consider whether we are perhaps using a measure that we say, well, we have failed and go back to the yellow middle lines, simply ensure more traffic safety! So it would have been just a matter of asking for expertise. Mr. Federal Minister, that would have cost you a single call at TU! But one was not willing to approach this approach just somehow, although that would have been absolutely free. So there is no interest in talking and talking to experts about it, and there is no interest in this here in the House. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that any potential accident victims that can be prevented by such measures justify any saved victims to discuss them. I would urge you once again to consider this proposal, which would cost nothing.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e23977	I call Mr Antoni. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e23998	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen. With regard to Mr Christian Hafenecker's request concerning the introduction of a yellow centre line, I should like to say that I should like to say the following very briefly: Since all our neighbouring countries use the soil marking color white, we also found in Austria, as already mentioned, in the 19th century. StVO-Novelle changed to white. On the one hand, this has met an international obligation; on the other hand, the difference between abroad and it has certainly been removed in connection with and in the sense of road safety, which is to be welcomed. We do not consider the conduct of a study within the meaning of the request to be objective. In my short speaking time, I would like to address the second request, the request made by Mr Christoph Hagen, colleagues on the use of the bus tracks by single-track motor vehicles. The requested legislative amendment aims to allow single-track vehicles to operate on bus tracks in principle. At the moment, the situation is such that it is exempt from the competent authority whether it wants to allow it or not. In any case, from the point of view of road safety, it is now examined whether a bus track is to be released. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hagen.]] Of course, attention will also be paid to the purpose of the bus track. The purpose of the bus track is clearly to accelerate and favour public transport. If, therefore, it allows for a traffic situation, the competent authority can now also release the operation of the bus track. – If the framework conditions do not allow it, the bus track will be reserved for the buses. From the point of view of transport policy, I would like to point out that the proposal, which says that the use of single-track motor vehicles, not only reveals that bus tracks are not generally used to speed up transport, but that their implementation would also exclude the examination of road safety and the need in individual cases. I would also like to point out that a general permission to drive motorcycles on the bus track would lead to major traffic problems. Finally, I would like to say the following: The more vehicles on the bus track, the more negative the effect, namely the acceleration of public transport. We are in favour of speeding up public transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e24055	Next speaker: Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e24077	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is already interesting with which arguments are tried to reject a very reasonable request or to speak in a moderate way. I just have to laugh because the colleague has explained before me why the bus track should not be used for motorcyclists and what there is all there is for opportunities. In that case, he opposed his party colleague from the SPÖ Vienna, the SPÖ municipality and President of the Red Biker Vienna, Gerhard Spitzer, for he wrote on 20 July. April: ‘SP-Spitzer: Free ride” for motorcycles on Vienna's bus tracks. But that's interesting – you're telling me the opposite! But it is also interesting how he reasons it: “Since 2005, Vienna has already released the use of two-wheeled buses with a positive result on a total of 18 trams.” It's about the environmental idea, it's about more safety and, and, you know, it's about security. Read the press service of your colleague, then you will agree to the request! [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this proposal is reasonable from the outset. I spoke here in a speech a few hours ago about legal certainty. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, if we have transport directives, they should also be the same throughout Austria! So in Vienna I can use the bus track; in Vorarlberg I can't do this with the motorcycle, I can only do it by moped and by bike. By the way, the bike stops – I take the bus myself: If you drive from Hörbranz to Bregenz, there is a bus track between Lochau and Bregenz, then the cyclists are on the way, and the bus is slowly getting slower than normal traffic because it doesn't pass. There's no such danger in the motorcycle! So you don't need to be afraid it's hindering bus traffic. That's what the cyclist does, but not the motorcycle driver. You can therefore agree with good conscience, I can assure you. Come on. So you're going down, you're going to be reasonable! There really is no argument to prevent this. I just want more legal certainty. I don't use anything if I'm allowed to do this as a motorcyclist in Vienna, and in Vorarlberg or in Tyrol or what I know, where, I can't do it. I already know that it is currently regulated in such a way that the road holders themselves can regulate. Only: Nobody does that, and the problem is: If it's not changed all over the country, then we've got this chewing fox and this mess. I do not want that because I want legal certainty, ladies and gentlemen. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Let me come briefly to Mr Hafenecker, who has made a very reasonable request. We used to have the yellow lines, so I think we had more road safety. We are in an alpine location in Austria, we often have fog, we often have snow, and then you really don't see the guidelines anymore. I'm a lot on my way by car, I'm a civilian police officer and I have many, many services day and night. That's where I went with the police car. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I know how it works, and it's really like that. We have adopted an EU directive on the white transport guidelines, which are probably not a problem in Spain, for example, where no snow lies. But in Austria we have a problem. I think that's reasonable from safety. Driving You once in the fog! Because you often don't see the white line in front of loud fog, you still have white pictures – I don't know how to say exactly – painted white signs on the edge so you can see the road because you don't see the narrow strip. This is therefore one of the reasons for a reasonable request. We have to give this agreement, otherwise I have to ask myself what else we should decide here. If there are reasonable ideas, one should agree to them, even if they come from the opposition. There, too, the government must jump over its shadows; I think that would be reasonable. Pack at the lettuce, take a heart – and agree to these two requests! The citizen and the voters outside will thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e24159	Mr Rädler. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e24197	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear friends of the FPÖ, it is already a strange role to be taken here, Mr. Hafenecker, a role towards the back, into the nineties, with the yellow line. [[Abg. Hagen:... failed!]] [[Further calls.]] I would like – and this, although your request even says that there are no documents for this request. [[Abg. Hafenecker: That's why we want some, my colleague.]] They already know, however, that in the surrounding countries – and Austria is a tourist country – this regulation of the yellow dividing lines does not apply. I would be pleased if the FPÖ would otherwise also look towards backward and would not draw a line of separation, for example in the hypo debate always when it comes to Jörg Haider. [[Abg. Hafenecker: Are you still making Greek financial policy, and Italian?]] Every day something breaks up, and here is a dividing line from the FPÖ: We don't deal with this, we're just looking forward. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] We see who nationalized the hypo, and all that has been done with seabeds and something like that is not to be mentioned at all. I only have a minute, Mr. Hafenecker. It would also be appropriate in the political past management of the FPÖ, the BZÖ, or as always you have called!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e24283	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e24305	Federal Minister! Mr President. Mr Rädler has managed to bring a little bit of momentum into this somewhat tough transport debate. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I am really sorry now to bring this swing from the hypo debate to the colors of the lines, with tourism, yes, if we have the whites everywhere. On the rest of the traffic, Mr Rädler, what is it like in the recessing traffic? Is everything normalized and equal? - I don't think so. So if you say everything has to be right away, we'll make the quieting traffic the same! Then the poor soul has peace. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] It's not that, okay, that's why we can also think quietly about this topic. But it's just a subject. [[Abg. Darmann: The ÖVP knows only with black colours!]] The second reason why I have also spoken is the subject of Mr Hagen's request. In Austria, we have principles – but we are in Austria, we do not always want to stick to them. We want to make public transport as simple and uniform as possible and faster. We then have the meeting zones, we have mixed zones, we have the tracks for buses, where taxis can drive, for example. In some areas, or in Vienna it is so, in some trams the two-wheels may be there again or not. So it's a highly heterogeneous zone that it is worth – you can really say that with Fug and Right – acting in a uniform manner. Now it is quite clear to me that the Federal Minister has a huge agenda. This point will not be the same as that which he absolutely wants to do before the summer. Even if it is after the summer – Mr Federal Minister, this point would involve a small harmonisation, because we do not want to have it as it is in Vienna: that the taxi drivers are excited, because if they overtake a two-wheeler, then they have to head for the other track, from 50 to 30 km/h, then they overtake at 30 km/h and drive back to the track, then they are allowed to drive 50 km/h again. All of this is Kauderwelsch. Because of the different transport/land/city councils, why this is always the case, I do not want to go into detail, even there we are very colorfully set up in Austria. Mr Willi is looking a little bit stricter now. But, Mr Federal Minister, perhaps in the next few days you will still be able to intervene in this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e24365	I call Mr Willi. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e24397	Mr Hafenecker, to make it short: The color of the lines is less important than that they are fresh, because you can see freshly drawn lines better. This is better for road safety. I feel more and more comfortable. [[Abg. Hafenecker: I didn't want blue anyway!]] The central road where there is no middle line was a small trip to the local policy. I just notice that in the municipalities, core roads are a wonderful means I propagate. Now to colleague Hagen: I understand your request, but he's very selfish. You're a motorcycle driver, and what do they want? – They want to be able to pass by when it goes to the intersection and is red there; I understand. The fact that they are now using the bus tracks to get ahead gives them the opportunity to start a great cavalier and be the first to drive away. This is the actual background, and from the point of view of a motorcycle driver I understand that. From the point of view of transport policy, I do not like it, and if I listen to the noise that the motorcycles starting with the cavalier start are lying down and producing, it is not very good for the trailers. Therefore: A rather motorbike-egoistic concern that I understand from an individual point of view – but it is traffic-political to reject! Therefore, we will not agree to Greens.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e24438	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 20: Proposal from the Transport Committee to take note of its report 558 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on item 21 on the agenda. Proposal from the Transport Committee to take note of its report 559 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. [[20:40:46]] 22. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the report of the Court of Auditors, Series Bund 2014/9 (III-81/517 D.B.) 23. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report, vol. 2013/8 (III-21/518 d.b.) 24. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors’ report Series Bund 2012/5 (III-9/544 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e24519	We shall now proceed to items 22 to 24 on the agenda, on which the debate will be held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Magistrate has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Hauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e24546	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Minimum level of security: It is, of course, as always a highly interesting, exciting report from the Court of Auditors. We thank you very much for the excellent reports. I should like to join me seamlessly in the debate in the Committee on Social Affairs which we have held in this regard with the Minister of Social Affairs, who unfortunately is not here today. That would be an exciting debate. Under the rule the position of the Freedom Party is clear and known. The minimum guarantee is certainly necessary for all those who are undeprived of emergency and reasonable. However, for all those who fall out of our economic system of minimum security, without ever making contributions to immigration, the financing is sometimes exhausted and no longer feasible. In this respect, the Court of Auditors has found that the costs of the minimum guarantee will explode – from € 25.94 million to € 36.04 million in the period 2009 to 2012 alone in Tyrol and € 18.29 million in Vorarlberg to € 21.44 million, with the financing of this demand-oriented minimum guarantee in Tyrol being 65 percent from the country and 35 percent from the municipalities. In this report, the comparison between Tyrol and Vorarlberg was made. Mr President of the Court of Auditors Dr. Moser, we are then also in a problem that we have raised, namely that the communities are often unable to bear these burdens. They are not at all involved in this decision-making process. Of course, it is said again and again that the municipal association and the municipal government are negotiating with – however – it is clear that this somehow creates a legitimacy. However, the simple community gets these contributions simply prescribed by the country. These contributions are to be paid; they are simply deducted, retained and increased year after year. That is why we say that this is no longer manageable, and I am allowed to introduce an initiative by our party here: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, I know that this position will not find a majority here in the House, but it should already be remembered that it has become scarce in the back and front of the money. I remember today's debt debate. We say we need money for education. So we need money at all corners and ends. Today, the Minister Heinisch-Hosek found that in 2015 alone, €345 million in the educational budget is missing that a finish is being produced here. On the other hand, we spend money on what we cannot afford, because immigration into our social system is simply piled up without contributions being included in this social system. If we want to put in place social benefits, educational services and standards and labour policy measures, we will have to look at the fact that It is in this system of minimum security that we need to switch off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e24618	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place, and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e24875	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Greiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e24896	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! In this test report on demand-oriented minimum assurance, it has been difficult to achieve full transparency. Why was that? – This is probably due to the fact that different contact points in the federal states are concerned and that different regulations apply, so this issue is very complex and very complex. The need-oriented minimum guarantee is regulated throughout the country, but the federal states are responsible for the implementation. Thus, sometimes the amount of the payment is different. What have I noticed in the revised Länder of Tyrol and Vorarlberg? – In both federal states, expenditure has increased sharply. The driving factor was probably the increase in housing costs. To this end, I agree with the remark that it will be important in the future to ensure that accommodation is really manageable especially in agglomerations by means of rental adjustments. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In addition, the report found that the majority of those involved are women. I can present some current figures. In 2013, 239,000 service providers received the need-oriented minimum guarantee. About 40 percent of families and 33% of the population were below the poverty line, including 40% of those under age 18 and 27% of those age 65 or over. It is extremely positive in this context to stress that since the need-oriented minimum guarantee, the AMS has already assigned 83 000 people to work again. In other words, the need-oriented minimum guarantee is almost a springboard in or back into the working world. I constantly hear criticism from the FPÖ, and Mr. Cot – I hope you have questioned me – you have said you are shy. I should like to reject this choice of words. [[Call the FPÖ:Of course!]] For information for our spectators: The reference of the need-oriented minimum guarantee is bound by clear rules. [[Call the FPÖ:What?- Oh, my God!]] Getting De facto References to this performance by €500 less than average workers. [[Call the FPÖ:620 €!]] And one thing I have to say, Mr. Hauser: A person with a need-oriented minimum security can't choose whether he wants to buy a car or rather leave the money on the savings book. He doesn't have the wealth for it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Subsequent calls to the FPÖ.]] Relating to demand-oriented minimum security are persons who are deeply dependent on solidarity aid. – That’s it, colleague. The Court of Auditors report also makes some recommendations. Among other things, it states that it is useful to pursue a federal scheme in implementation. That is also to be welcomed. He also speaks of standardisation and adaptations. Some of the recommended proposals for improvement are already in implementation and others are, of course, taken into account in the ongoing financial compensatory discussions with the federal states. These talks started in March. Ladies and gentlemen, my final appeal is: We are working in a solid and constructive way to improve the performance of the need-oriented minimum guarantee, namely in favour of those concerned. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e24971	I call Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e24993	Mr President! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I take a position on the Court of Auditors' report, agenda item 23, Channel renovation in municipalities in Salzburg, Upper Austria and Carinthia. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this report from the Court of Auditors states that the Salzburg Rehabilitation Plan is an exemplary one. However, it would also have to be implemented in time and financed accordingly. However, it must also be noted, ladies and gentlemen, especially as regards the old town in Salzburg, that these dates cannot be observed in any way during the festival season. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President of the Court of Auditors, you have also stated in your report that reserves should be made here by the municipalities. That's right, but it's very difficult for the communities – we've heard it today – that reserves are formed because there is, of course, a financially tense situation. According to financial compensation, it would even be allowed to cover up to 200 percent of the reserves, but this will not be achieved by any municipality. One, ladies and gentlemen, of course, is also important to us, namely that all rehabilitation measures should not increase the fees of the canal for the population. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e25032	I call Mr Gahr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e25053	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! The need-oriented minimum security, which is divided into three parts – livelihood, housing and health care – is certainly a health and social progress. This report shows, even if only two federal states are compared, that there are large differences here as regards classifications, and that things are very difficult to compare. The fact is that since 2000, the costs of the minimum security focus have been increased to threefold. I think this is a great budget effort. The Court of Auditors has compared and examined Tyrol and Vorarlberg. It became clear that there are different levels of payment in relation to the Article-15a agreement. In Tyrol up to €1 250 more were paid, in Vorarlberg up to €900. The Court of Auditors also made it clear that the objective must, of course, be to create uniform standards here, and that we will have a working exchange of information between the federal, state and local authorities as a prerequisite. Of course, the current system needs to be improved, optimised and re-adjusted quickly. It is important that we have, of course, the countries in the boat here, as the Federal Minister said in the Committee, but we must try to develop a system that is as fair as possible across the federal states. So we need to harmonise this system. The Court of Auditors has found shortcomings in the exchange of data. It was not possible for individual District Head Teams to provide the detailed information for the calculation of the minimum guarantee. There are many contact points. In addition, it has been found that there have been some differences between the countries of Tyrol and Vorarlberg, particularly in the calculation of free amounts. Overall, I believe, this Court of Auditors report shows that the need for federal funds is increasing and that the countries responsible for enforcement are in a certain way turning costs onto the federal government. That is why I believe that It is important that countries take account of the federal government, especially as regards the additional services. This Court of Auditors report gives a clear mandate for the future. At the next financial compensation, this Article 15a agreement must be taken into account. There's got to be re-adjustments here. The aim must be to make the minimum assurance in the management more efficient, slimmer and more transparent that we work on secure data bases. The previous speaker said it; we should not work with emotions here. After all, there are people who are affected by fate or illness. It is therefore important, I believe, that we make these measures socially acceptable and fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e25109	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Bösch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e25130	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In this report, the Court of Auditors is also addressing personnel measures in the Austrian Federal Army. It is mainly about the relationship between troops and basic organisation and the balance between these two elements of the army. ==References== In this report, 23 000 staff are cast out, 13 000 of them in the basic organisation and only 9 000 in the force. At the time, this included a ratio of 1.4 to 1 to 1 of the force. In 2011, there were also 1,295 staff without a systematic job, which is a very special feature of this ministry. We were able to talk to the Federal Minister in committee about this. He has promised us there that this relationship will be one to one between the basic organization and the force and that at present there will be no more staff without a systemized job in the Austrian federal army. We liberals insist that these personnel measures within the framework of the Federal Army will be pursued, above all, through the personnel provider, who has been specially established for this purpose, in future with this objective of streamlining the structure of the service in the Federal Army. We are also of the opinion that as opposition we are obliged to ensure that the Federal Ministry continues to observe all these objectives that it has set itself here – that is now four years ago – even in the future. We'll take care of it.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e25170	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Schwentner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e25192	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! First of all, I would like to thank you for your report. That is precisely what comes at a good time. We know that the financial compensatory negotiations are beginning now, and many things that we should seriously discuss in these negotiations or at this time are already mentioned in the report – thank you for that! The report gives a lot of insight and is interpreted differently. If I hear colleagues from the FPÖ, I wonder if you really have to interpret the exploding costs in the same and relevant way, namely that foreigners are guilty, or if you really want to look at the cause. [[Call to the FPÖ:In Tyrol there are 84 nations!]] It is not a question of people operating in a system; It's not about the social hammock. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Höbart.]] This is about people who are really at risk of poverty and who, in a very difficult situation in life, depend on this minimum guarantee. I would also like to point out that this is about existing EU law. Think of your way of thinking done: How are Austrians living abroad? Don't they have a right to minimum security?- Oh, my God! – Obviously not according to your logic. [[Call the FPÖ:Are you entitled to minimum security in America?- Oh, my God!]] Think about it, please. I would now like to address another issue of SPÖ and ÖVP. I believe that we all agree – and the Court of Auditors as well – that harmonisation was not just the objective, but must continue or, at last, be the goal. [[Abg. Höbart: Just open!]] The report shows us very precisely and dramatically that there is no harmonisation between countries, that in a very different way the right and access to the minimum guarantee are guaranteed or that this is not at all understandable and partly arbitrary. It doesn't matter if you talk about the subject with experts, interested parties or the public prosecutor's office; everyone will confirm that this leads to the federal Sackgasse. That is to say, it will probably make no sense to maintain the existing Article 15a agreement in any form, but – even there is agreement among experts; the popular lawyer would also support it – it needs something like a framework agreement that regulates it, that is, throughout Germany. It is intended to prevent the practice so far that the countries do the same as they just want to do, or in such a different way that it is not comprehensible why people are treated differently in Bregenz in a situation where they are not at all good than in Eisenstadt. We will also, I believe, present the last item on the agenda today with a request to amend the Constitution with a view to a framework agreement. I would ask you to support us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e25258	Mrs Schenk. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a point of order. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e25279	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm dedicated to worker protection. The Court of Auditors has also examined here, and the audit should show how effective and efficient the protection of workers is in Austria. The work inspectorates and the AUVA were checked. [[President Bures takes over the presidency again.]] The Court of Auditors has found that there is a need for action in the area of worker protection. According to the Court of Auditors, ‘Various differences in the performance of labour inspectorates show the need for efficient governance’. The Court of Auditors sees here – how always or as often as – savings potential, namely through the reorganisation of the labour inspection into a supervisory district per state. That would bring €500 000 a year, and that is a sum that should not be underestimated. Furthermore, in the context of AUVA, the Court of Auditors noted that the current contribution system does not provide an immediate incentive for companies to invest more in employee protection measures. Especially the field of prevention is very important. You always hear how much euros would be saved with prevention, because if there is a disease, the treatment costs. Prevention – we all know – is significantly cheaper than repair. It is therefore necessary to set up appropriate measures and to develop strategies in order to be able to counter them. As the mental diseases are increasing, an official burnout study – which I have already requested several times, but which has not yet been carried out – was needed in order to have data material available on the basis of which one can continue to work. At the end of last year, Statistics Austria presented surveys on accidents at work and work-related health problems, and the result was alarming. I would like to quote briefly: Eight out of ten workers are exposed to health risks at work, more than one third complain of mental stress through time pressure and overload. - Quote. That's where the devil circle starts: Workers become depressed, get a burnout. One knows that this causes enormous costs, illness, family problems. The damage to the economy and to the state is very high. I would also like to say here that the Institute for Economic Research 2009 has accounted for the overall economic costs incurred by mental stress and the sick, with a total of €3.3 billion, ladies and gentlemen. That is another reason more to invest in prevention, because then one saves the repair. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The protection of workers is theoretically good, but the efficiency is practically left to be desired. I have already mentioned a few examples, and of course there are also problems for workers. I would like to clarify this by means of an example of a Styrian company, namely the steel producer Breitenfeld AG from the Styrian Mürztal. This is a production company with almost 300 employees, and only in the area of worker protection must this company comply with about 15 laws and regulations, train and employ prevention and security professionals and security trust persons. This is a huge bureaucratic effort, a huge paperwork, and that is not good for this operation. The board of directors, Mr Schneider, also noted in an interview that he sees the “core problem in the fact that the Austrian ministries feel they need to go beyond the EU’s already overrun requirements”. This is an example that can be used for many to ensure that no excessive controls, no superfluous rules are made, that entrepreneurs are not to be hindered by bureaucracy and covered with paperwork, but that this is simplified. On the one hand, prevention is important and on the other hand the red tape reduction that companies can really work, that employees can also pay well that the employees are also doing well. This is a point that we probably still need to talk about very often and which really has a lot of work ahead of us. I would like to thank the Court of Auditors very much for this very detailed and good report, and I hope that we will take this basis on the occasion and really change something here and work together to make it better in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e25351	Now comes Mr Mag. Loacker's word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e25373	Madam President. Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! As a matter of fact, the Court of Auditors reports – because they are always so late – are no more or hardly more audiences, so that the government's misdeeds are discussed before as few audiences as possible. On the subject of minimum security: Mr Schwentner rightly stated that the objective of harmonisation had not been achieved and that the countries were far apart in their performance. Among other things, this is because they are not financially responsible for their actions, and it will be a great task for the Minister of Finance – who unfortunately cannot hear this now – to take the countries to the kandare in the course of the financial compensatory negotiations and to ensure that they deal with the money more carefully. One aspect that we believe is the interaction between minimum security policy and labour market policy. To this end, the Court of Auditors notes in its report that, in principle, allowances should be considered as a suitable motivation for the re-entry of a minimum-guarantee into working life, only these amounts are currently far too small. It makes no difference for the minimum provider of insurance, who earns a reward, whether he requires 400 or 600 € for it, because the amount of earnings is so small. That is exactly what Mr Greiner said, not the case, namely that the minimum guarantee provides an incentive to enter the profession. Because if, depending on the family constellation, you can obtain more than €2,000 net minimum insurance, I ask you: Where do normal mortals earn €2,000 net? Such a person never gets into work again, you've driven it into the state aid trap with your system in which such a person threatens to stay for a lifetime. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: Can you simply say that the free amounts are too low!]] The allowances are too low. It must be designed in such a way that it enters and that it is always worthwhile that performance is always worth it. Every hundred people you add to your earnings must pay off. In the context of the financial compensatory negotiations, the Federal Government must become active here and take the countries into responsibility. I therefore make the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e25434	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e25511	Next speaker: Mr Preiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e25534	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. I refer to the Court of Auditors' report on the subject of worker protection for the 2007 to 2011 reporting period. As we know, the review of compliance with the workers' protection regulations is carried out by the labour inspectorates and the AUVA. They do an important job in the prevention of accidents at work and occupational diseases. I would now like to explain some of the facts in the report: In 2009, the national control rate of the workplaces audited by the labour inspectorates was around 15 percent of the aforementioned workplaces. Each labour inspector set his main priorities individually, the control rate of the workplace ranged between 6 and 18 percent and that of the workers between 18 and 50 percent. Unfortunately, the Central Labour Inspectorate had no up-to-date information on how much time and thus what costs flowed into the individual core performance areas of the Labour Inspectorates. At a meeting of the Court of Auditors, Social Minister Hundstorfer already gave an opinion on the auditing rate of the labour inspectorates. The quota is relatively stable. The range of tasks is increasing, and the staff status of the labour inspectorates has also taken this into account, which has increased by about 6 percent. Labour inspectors also control and advise. We agree, I think, that the control of legal regulations is particularly important in today's labour pressure. For example, I am thinking only of the construction industry, where workers of the labour inspectorates regularly travel on the construction sites to control the safety of the workers employed there. There is also a corresponding point system for targeted controls. A uniform further refinement and improvement of the strategy is being worked on in order to develop the subject of workers protection accordingly. Finally, I should like to inform you of a welcome aspect of the report. The number of accidents at work due to reporting was around 37 percent from 1998 to 2008. I hope that this trend will continue in this direction in the future, and believe that the intensive activity of AUVA and the labour inspectorates will enable major accidents at work to be avoided in greater numbers. I am also very grateful to the officials of the Court of Auditors for drawing up the report.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e25580	Now comes Mr Mag. Hanger to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e25602	Madam President. Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I am also referring to the Court of Auditors' report on worker protection, but I would like to refer to Mr Loacker's comments as a preliminary point. The agenda for today's plenary session was agreed. I also reject the choice of words “mists. ” It is about critical consideration with different topics. Some are entitled to do so, some are not entitled to do so. But when we talk about misdeeds here, I really want to reject it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On the subject of worker protection: I would like to highlight the legitimate interest in the field of stress for workers versus bureaucracy – as a previous speaker has already mentioned. Unfortunately, these systems also need bureaucracy, and I want to assess it in an interaction. It is quite clear that there are very clear reasons for worker protection: There is a personal interest of the individual worker, there is an operational interest, because, of course, follow-up costs are also saved for businesses, and there is also a public interest in the protection of workers, because of course health costs can also be saved. It is, of course, the case that compliance with worker protection regulations – security officer, security trustees, fire guard, the question: What does an evaluation really have to include?, Safety data sheets for dangerous goods, and much more – especially for small and medium-sized enterprises is sometimes very challenging. – This is the other side of the medal. On the other hand, on the other hand, I would like to make it quite clear that worker protection in Austria is a success model. A look at the figures shows that there were 105,770 accidents reported in 1998, 66,528 in 2008. This is a 37 percent reduction, and it must be stressed in all clarity that much is done here that a lot of good work is done here. Among the two main actors, the Labour Inspectorates and the AUVA: I personally perceive that there has been a great deal of consultation from a punishment to a consultation, and there is also very good work done outside the establishments. AUVA's preventive programmes are also very successful. The figures clearly prove this. Nevertheless, all systems are constantly to be questioned, even if all of this is necessary, which has been built up in bureaucracy. The Federal Government has taken a first step by abolishing individual agents. The functions of the preventive professional and the security trust person have been combined. For example, more than 100 employees are required to hold a working committee meeting. – This is a first step, a right step in this direction, but there are certainly still more necessary. It is very easy to maintain a balance between legitimate interests of protection and only necessary bureaucracy, which must be as small as possible. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e25659	Mr Vetter. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e25680	Madam President. Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I refer to that part of the Court of Auditors' report, which deals with the personnel measures in the Federal Ministry of State Defense in the course of the reorganisation of the German army. This reminds me a little of the educational debate we had here. The German army has also been reformed to death for many years. It is increasingly being reduced, and this leads to a distribution struggle – to a distribution struggle on the one hand, which, among other things, leads to the disposal of barracks, which also comes into criticism. This will be highlighted in the next report. On the other hand, it is like this: The number of personnel in the Federal Army is excessive. If the proportion of staff costs is more than 70 percent of the budget, this is the case. a language of its own. If, as mentioned today, the head, the bureaucracy, is a heavy weight and the troop is actually a side show, then this is a development that is dubious, because this federal army is in favour of being operational in the case of the case. If you read the newspapers through, you'd rather look at side-by-side locations when the German army is affected and wonder where the Minister went with his car. The real problems that the German army has – from the motivation about the equipment – are far too little to address. Because I said a debate on education: There is a book by the philosopher Konrad Paul Liessmann entitled “Spiriture. The practice of education’. Actually, our federal army could have a similar title: Spirit hour. The practice of defense. Churchill once said: What are the best schools for us when the barbarians come? I take this discussion on the occasion of reminding us that we also have to provide the federal army with material equipment accordingly. It is precisely because, at the beginning of this meeting, we expressed our horror at mass murder and the events in the Mediterranean, it would be right to draw the right teaching from it, namely to teach the German army accordingly. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e25729	Now comes Mrs Mag. Muzzle on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e25750	Madam President. Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I am speaking briefly about the part of the report on the external presence of the Vienna police or the monitoring of follow-up in this regard. In principle, the overall review of this report is moderate, but it can also be said that the minimum share of 57 percent defined in the regional strategy is significantly lower than the 67 percent external presence defined in the executive directives. Some of the Court’s recommendations have been implemented, such as the mandatory jurisdiction of the National Criminal Office in the case of advertisements with criminal offences. Of course, these implementations are very positive and useful, but the basic problem is the lack of personnel that must not be deceived. Already in the original report, the external presence of the Vienna police was compared to Munich, namely that Munich was out with 25 outposts and there were 95 in Vienna. However, the system is not comparable because Munich works with a content system, as it was in Vienna until 2004 before the reform. At that time, an official act took a very short time – for example, one hour in the case of violence in the family – and then the case was handed over to the administrative officials for further processing. In Vienna everything is recorded, and this can take between two and six hours. In addition: Munich has more than 1,500 administrative officers in addition to the police. To the missing 1,000 police officers, who are always required, we must say: It is currently the case that in executive foreign service the posts are about a quarter occupied. By the end of the year – which is relatively difficult to estimate – a third can be added. Come on. Since 2008, 400 officials have been added annually, but they do not always remain in the area of Vienna, but are assigned elsewhere, are transferred. Thus, of these 400 officials, not all the missing needs can be filled. – This is an important point. I would also have to say a few things to the foreign offices, but that was the most important thing for me now. I hope that, in future reviews, we will be able to start from a better staffing situation and, therefore, we will be better able to carry out the external presence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e25798	The next item is Mrs Gessl-Ranftl's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e25820	Madam President. Mr President. High house! I refer to the Court of Auditors' report on personnel measures by the Federal Ministry of National Defence and Sport within the framework of reorganisations. On the basis of the results of the 2004 Federal Force Reform Commission, which were politically agreed with all parties represented in Parliament at that time, the Federal Ministry of Defence and Sport immediately implemented the reform ÖBH 2010. The reform was aimed at directing the ÖBH to the future tasks. The primary objective was not to reduce personnel, but it was known to the BMLVS that the transformation into the new structures would take a longer period of time. The target structure was focused on stable staffing targets and budget figures. However, from 2011, these two main factors were constantly changed downwards. A significant budgetary reduction, as we all know, took place in 2014. This also made it necessary to make structural adjustments. Against this background, the Federal Minister for State Defense and Sport has presented a concept for a task and resource-oriented reorientation of the Austrian Federal Army. This concept also included an adjustment of the entire structure and process organisation of the resort and thus not only has budgetary, but also human effects. The conceptual considerations were, of course, based on the specific recommendations of the Court of Auditors, which now implements key criticisms such as the reduction of the stock of barracks or the restructuring of military music. Ladies and gentlemen, as you all know, the concept of ÖBH 2018 was adopted on 23. Agreed on December of the expired calendar year at government level. The department is now in the implementation phase. According to the statements made by Minister Klug in the Committee, the agreement ensures that the medium and long-term budgetary and human resources objectives can be achieved, in line with the Court's suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e25857	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall first proceed to the vote on agenda item 22: Request by the Committee of the Regions to take note of this report III-81 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – That is so unanimously accepted. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Belakovich-Jenewein, colleagues on the country of origin principle in the field of minimum security. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Loacker, colleagues and colleagues on incentives to work in the need-oriented minimum guarantee. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall also proceed to the vote on agenda item 23: Request by the Committee of the Regions to take note of this report III-21 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. Finally, we shall come to the vote on agenda item 24: Request by the Committee of the Regions to take note of this report III-9 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. - That's the majority. Accepted. [[21:26:04]] 25. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors’ report Series Bund 2013/12 (III-30/545 D.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e25966	In this way we reach the 25th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e25994	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! I refer to the Court of Auditors' report on the field of impact of the Federal Ministry of Education, Art and Culture, Model tests New secondary school. What has always turned out quite clearly and what we have always said in the introduction of the school experiment itself and in the course of the course of time, because there are the international comparisons to that effect – but we have not been heard – was that it is definitely becoming more expensive. It's definitely the most expensive moment. Now we always hear almost every Sunday that for our education system, there is always and enough money in the world for our children. There is always enough money for security, there is enough money for social security and there is enough money for pensions. Wherever there is sufficient money, Then you make a line, you count together – and you say: Now we have to save! This is, in itself, the budgetary policy that is always being speeded up. The Court of Auditors has now clearly shown, even with regional differences – for example, in the Federal State of Salzburg or in other countries – that in Austria the per capita costs are different. Finally, the Court of Auditors, in its recommendations, which are ongoing, also tells us a general word, especially as regards educational budgets, also in the past. The Court of Auditors is indeed interested in the reform of education. It seems to me that the Court of Auditors is being very precise, very efficient and, above all, very constructive in dealing with the question of education policy and how to use resources for education policy. There are, at least, appropriate proposals. It is said that the Court of Auditors, because of the confusion of the competence jungle in the Austrian school administration, cannot understand at all at all, even if it is best, how much limited teaching and so on or restricted teacher use really do really matter there and there. Contracting directives have not been complied with. But a lesson from it has been drawn: Those six hours previously available for team teaching will now be used by the classroom for free. Do you know what this is sold then? – The first important step towards school autonomy. The Court of Auditors, in its current opinion in the review procedure, said: Here, too, you can't understand what money will be used. For what unit of value with what payment will the funds be used? – No planning! Current chaos! € 343 million is still missing in the 2015 budget. If you want to try to look at the money, even in the classroom – you always say so well, the money should arrive in the classroom – then perhaps the Minister of Education should consider why alone in the 4th century. In the quarter of 2014 as a leader, €950 000 has been issued for ads. Most likely for free newspapers, maybe the students need them to do something out of paper mesh. – But perhaps you could make it cheaper than about the detour of ads.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e26042	The next item is the speech by Mr Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e26063	Madam President. Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I can actually relate to what we have already discussed today because of the urgent question of NEOS. An important part of this discussion was also the New Secondary School. We have already discussed in the Court of Auditors over a year ago the report which we can discuss here today in the House, which has critically assessed the development of the New Secondary School, if one wants to do so, in the time of the project phase, as I mean, correctly. The criticism points are also 100 percent, and there is nothing to do with that. It is important to me in this context because I simply see this as a decisive step in the future of education policy – I have tried to do so with the support of officials of the Ministry of Finance, I have then also addressed the countries and the Court of Auditors – how much we spend in Austria for the school of ten to fourteen years. They know – we have already discussed it today – that the special school belongs to a large part of it, since it includes the primary school, the New Secondary School, the AHS sub-school. I understand that when we discussed in the Subcommittee of the Constitutional Committee, a colleague from the ÖVP asked the President of the Court of Auditors – I think it was one of the first questions –: Mr President, can you tell us how many teachers who are in no class are paying the federal government? The President of the Court of Auditors then said that he cannot say that because he does not get the figures from the countries. I have not been able, in my capacity as the Court of Auditors, to find out, despite the support of the Court of Auditors, the Ministry of Finance and some countries, how much we spend on the various types of schools with all their expenses. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] I tell you, if we determine this number, then we can achieve so much individual support for a common school of the ten to fourteen years old, promote people there and demand what it is necessary, what it is necessary for us to do, and reduce a lot of structures that cost us a lot of money. I really appeal to the coalition partner, my appeal goes to you: Why aren't you ready to jump over this shadow? Chamber of Commerce, Industrial Association, Educational Scientists, Active Teachers say the longest time, we have to take this step, we can save money here, not short term, but it takes longer. [[Abg. Wöginger: With the New Secondary School we do not save anything!]] We have already talked about this educational ship moving slowly today. But if, instead of such projects, we actually enter into a new form of education of the ten to fourteen years old, where we can promote the best of the best and take the weak with us, then we have made a significant contribution. That would be important. Instead of a joint project To lament new secondary school, you should be ready to go new ways here with us! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e26106	The next item is the speech by Mr Zanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e26127	Madam President. Mr President. SIVBEG, the fifth or seventh, so similar, I think, it is. As early as 2013, we talked about the report on Strategic Real Estate Exploitation, Consulting and Development, which alone has the name of society, I think, more words than the company has at all employees, about the SIVBEG, and at that time I believe that the SIVBEG would be dissolved and transferred to the BIG. This has not, of course, been done. There has now been a follow-up review, and it can be seen that some of the Court's recommendations have been implemented, but of course the most important ones have been neglected again, e.g. the review of the effectiveness of this company or the review of the society with regard to dual structures. That has not happened either. Interestingly, this society employs its own press speaker, its own attorney and two project managers. The question is what a press speaker needs. You could actually use the resort for this. There you have to conclude that this society is only a catch-up pool for staff, which you can't have to go where you're going off. But that is in the sense of red and black. This is the way to maintain this society. According to all the criticisms that the Court of Auditors has revealed, after all that colleagues from other political groups have recognized, namely that this society is really superfluous, Mr Klug has been taken to pieces and said that this is a small, slim, efficient and highly qualified unit, a best-practice model and a success story in the disposal of hard-to-use properties, that is, a really huge thing. You must be very careful in the Klug’s best-practice examples. If you see what's happening with the army in the force, then I have to say, it's not far from with these best-practice examples by Minister Klug. For example – yes, yes, please, Mr Lopatka – there is no longer any military service, that is, field sports. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lopatka.]] [[Abg. Lopatka: After I say only!]] They probably do there instead of jump, forward, cover, as was the case earlier, now cut Maipfeiferl and bask arrows and bows. That's not what I imagine under a federal army. But also society SIVBEG is not, and that is why one can only conclude that it is dissolved. I would therefore like to make the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e26191	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e26252	Next speaker: Mrs Jank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e26274	Madam President. Mr President. High house! I am going to, you will not be surprised to express new middle school on the topic of model experiments. The model experiment is no longer one, we have been transferred to the regular operation. I am grateful for the Court of Auditors' report when, as I believe, it came at a time when it was a little too early. The NMS did not last very long, and only two federal states were checked. But the report is nevertheless a good help to us because it shows us the need for action in a timely manner. The Federal Government has now also responded with the Education Reform Commission. I have already been allowed to carry out this today at the debt debate in the context of the urgent request. Now we have the opportunity to develop and improve things. The report itself is not really pleasing. The objectives have not been achieved, the impact of the division of competence between the Federal Government and the Länder has led to the criticism of the Court of Auditors and financial commitment. Of course, if more money is invested in a school system, it is also more expensive, according to Adam Riese, as I mean, of course. So all of us can't really wonder about each other now. But what surprises me a little – and this has not so much to do with the report now, but with the fact that there are obviously no records about it – is that we do not deal with the core of the New Middle School – the internal differentiation. For this purpose, there are seven options available to schools: the individualisation of teaching, a differentiated class teaching, gift-including gift promotions, measures of inclusive education and diversity, promotions in temporary education and training. Students' groups, promotions in funding or performance courses and, point 7, teaching in the teacher's team, so team teaching. I have asked the Minister because I wanted to know which of these seven predetermined possibilities to implement the NMS system, how often and in what way have been applied. And the woman minister told me – I quote –: There are no central, no detailed data on this. Now I would even understand that there is no such data, because it would be a considerable effort for the teachers concerned to keep such records, as this could often be very short-term measures in the individual case, so I imagine at least that. I don't want to go into a bashing against the NMS and often also against those who teach there, because it doesn't do well because it doesn't benefit teachers, but because it's not good for students, especially for students, and because we see that it's now – under quotation marks – "success" to make sure that only a few want to go into an NMS with the bad step of the NMS. This does not mean that a good type of school, namely the primary school that should have been developed, will no longer be attended. We have the common task of countering this. However, we also have the task of considering other issues and measures. And one way to determine whether the school achieves its goals could be – I think we should get into this discussion – that the achievement of the achievement goals will be checked. This means that schools are left very free and autonomous, how they achieve these goals, but whether they are actually achieved. This would probably create a lot of freedom. This would allow many opportunities to go individual ways at schools, and would be good for our entire school life.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e26325	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Hauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e26346	Madam President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Mayer, I remember very well how we discussed in the Committee on the Court of Auditors' report a year ago, and what really happened to a conflict between the Minister of Education and the President of the Court of Auditors, because the President of the Court of Auditors has shown proposals for improvement which have not been well received by the Minister. It's still in my best memory. One must, Mr President Dr. Moser, really realize that the model of the New Middle School failed. What was the core model? – The core model was that further lessons are available in the main subjects of German, English and Mathematics and that these lessons in team teaching are also to be taught with high school teachers. But this is not happening, it has not been implemented! Now, out of despair, there are models that look so much like saying: We want to provide these team teaching hours, which cannot be used for purpose, to the schools. In this respect, for example, there is also a NEOS motion for a resolution calling for: these six hours for co-teaching will be re-defined and made available as a quality budget for secondary schools in the future. In principle, yes, but there is already another inequality of treatment. Why do only the New Secondary Schools receive a quality budget, but for example the lower level of gymnasia? – This is an unequal treatment, and therefore we do not agree with this initiative. It can't work like this. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs Jank, I would like to give you the right to use the model of the New Secondary School to do nothing but insecure the well-functioning primary schools in rural areas. The New Secondary School has been provided with additional hours, but it has not been possible to implement them for purposes – with the consequence that this model is the most expensive model at all, with an average of €7,200 per student per year, while a student in the primary school costs €6,600 per year and one in the AHS €4,700. So we have with the New Middle School the most expensive model, but also the most inefficient model, with the only difference that these six hours cannot now be used properly, but are divided. So under the rule, only one title is left at the New Middle School. That's it. There are only more keywords left. And the Court of Auditors' criticism that the model of the New Secondary School has been implemented across the board without waiting for the results of the evaluation at all, is simply to sign. There were no conditions. You can't do that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Another point: Money is missing in school at all corners and ends. For the model tests, € 114 million were spent in the years 2009 to 2012. 114 million euros, 90 percent of them for additional staff! According to the Court of Auditors, 5 000 school tests were carried out during this period. That means our school has come to a school trial model. Nobody knows. That's why: Stop these experimental models! Let's keep the good! Let's see that there's a differentiated school system, and let's make sure that the money arrives with the students – and not in the system. You can't just re-distribut the money now because of the lack of quality and say: So, for these six hours, we're making a quality budget for these more hours and we're giving it to the New Secondary Schools now! – and this is due to the other schools, such as the gymnasia, where there is now another imbalance. For this policy, the Freedom Party is certainly not to have.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e26426	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Walser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e26447	Madam President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Yes, what the Court of Auditors is presenting to you here in the field of New Secondary School is an extermination. I would think that anyone who voted in favour of this report at the time would have to learn it externally, because what is in it has been put to the point: There was systematic destruction of money! I found it very interesting – Mr Wöginger, I do not know if you were here in the afternoon – that Mr Mayer has already done child-moving and said: The New Secondary School was pushed to the eye by the ÖVP! So the New Secondary School, as it exists. [[Abg. Wöginger: He's good too!]] You formulated it this afternoon exactly like this: The New Secondary School has been introduced by the ÖVP against the will of the Social Democrats. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mayer.]] They had to agree. – Look You're going to sign the protocol! This will become very interesting. All right, mine. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that this has really grown on your dung to introduce this model – without evaluation. [[Abg. Wöginger: The seven points have grown on our dung!]] I thank Mr Moser for the report. I am amazed at how healthy you look, President Dr. Moser, because if you've studied this and know the other reports, you're going to be bad. The way you deal with tax money from the government is no longer portable! The whole dilemma of our school system is shown by a few details. Not even the federal administration works. Let us look at the comparison, which is what the AHS sub-level – and that is federal administration – costs. For example, a student in Salzburg costs more than €5,000, but in the Austrian section it is not even €4 700. Please explain these differences to me! There it cannot be in the administration behind and at the front. If we are unable to set up a school administration that is clearly structured, such abuses will continue to take place. If I now hear that there is already a change in the system, then I will be up the gray bears – forgive me for this expression. So that's where we really have responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen of Red and Black, this responsibility is really with you. And if what is said here doesn't give you any thought if you are implementing a false educational project and investing three-digit million amounts for it – and then years after you have introduced the system without evaluating it, argue about who is now guilty and the ÖVP should suddenly be the NMS fighter and you have nothing to do with it, then it is clear that it is badly ordered with the education system in Austria. [[towards SPÖ]] Take what you rightly said today at last seriously, and try to introduce a common school with a clear structure! Otherwise, we will continue to have such reports – I hope Mr. Dr. Moser will continue to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e26512	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Meinl-Risinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e26533	Madam President. Mr President, Mr Moser! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Walser said that this is a devastating report. I do not want to go into all the details now, I would like to make three requests in particular. The first request I will make concerns the quality budget and, Mr Hauser, because you have spoken about it: In the most beautiful of all worlds, we also imagine another model. This is the hourly school, an autonomous, comprehensively autonomous school, where there is a change of funding, according to the principle “The money follows the student”, but there we also combine it with an index-based financing, because of course it is essential to see which sites, which students need more grants. That's just the way you have to take note of this pragmatically. In this world, however, it is now about asking: What do we do with this New Middle School now? What are we now doing with these additional resources? We have already discussed our solutions in the afternoon: This would once be the transformation into a quality budget that can be directly available at the school location. In our opinion, this would also reduce the administrative burden. That is why I now make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] In addition, we are concerned with comprehensive autonomy of schools. I have already said that Matthias Strolz was at the Austrian student and student parliament on Monday. There was also a subject, and he has promised the students to submit applications that come out of it today. That is why the following request was made on the initiative of Thomas Schroll and the student representative at the Austrian Student Parliament on 20 July. ==References====External links== Resolution by Mr Strolz, Mr Meinl-Reisinger and others on school autonomy The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Government, and in particular the Federal Minister for Education and Women, are invited to strengthen school autonomy by: School autonomous decisions on staff questions Self-determination for opening and division numbers of class sizes for the best possible promotion of pupils More freedom of choice in the number of days available for school trips and trips in Germany and abroad Creation of a premium system that creates incentives for teachers The right for the school to save excess budget and to manage independently.’ As I said, this is an application that emerged from this student Parliament. It is important that we really enter the dialogue with the various stakeholders. You can see that the mood for school autonomy is getting stronger and stronger, and that's a good thing. A second aspect of this Court of Auditors report is, of course, the question of the emergency system, which is confusing and unclear, since it distinguishes between basic and deeper education. Of course, the question arises in principle whether and how many notes we need at all. I would also like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] There is still much to be said about the Court of Auditors' report, but unfortunately I have little time. The colleagues will thank me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e26661	The motions for resolutions are properly tabled and are under negotiation. The three applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e26815	Next speaker: Mr Hell. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e26836	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! In my speech, I can again deal with the follow-up review of the sales of barracks and property by the SIVBEG. The SIVBEG was established in 2005 under the then Defence Minister Platter. The main purpose of the company was and is the exploitation of properties owned by the Federal Government and the administration of the Ministry of Defence according to economic and market-oriented principles. In 2010, the Court of Auditors carried out an audit of the conduct of the SIVBEG and, as a result of the recommendations following this review, extensive evaluation processes were launched. As is now to be seen in the follow-up report, seven of the 14 recommendations made by the Court of Auditors have been implemented and seven have been partially implemented by the SIVBEG. Nevertheless, the Court of Auditors maintains a significant criticism that this is about the dual structure SIVBEG and BIG. Ladies and gentlemen, there has been a very intense discussion in the Committee on the subject. In concrete terms, the Republic needs two real estate exploitation areas, namely the BIG and the SIVBEG. It was found by the Federal Minister that the SIVBEG is a unique broker organisation with special tasks such as consulting and handling military properties and today has a high specialization and experience. In the joint work of BMF, BIG and financial procuratorship, a sales process has been developed that allows these complex properties to be marketed as well. [[Abg. Moser: What did not succeed!]] The Federal Minister therefore sees the SIVBEG as a useful body for the exploitation of properties, which is a completely different view of what the Court of Auditors notes in its report. Clearly, ladies and gentlemen, according to the Court of Auditors report, the aim was to exploit property by 2013. According to the Court of Auditors report, a period of up to 2018 will be required for the exploitation process of these properties. The SIVBEG has implemented the Court’s recommendation to pay more attention to clear definitions between targets and target agreements as well as to actual performance incentives in the design of managerial remunerations. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, all in all, a very critical report, which is present here and which needs to take appropriate measures even after the implementation of the Court of Auditors recommendations. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e26879	The next item is Mrs Schittenhelm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e26900	Madam President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen, I too can speak here on the Causa SIVBEG. Yes, the Court of Auditors has already published the results of this follow-up review on the implementation of the Court of Auditors’ recommendations in 2010 on sales of barracks and property by SIVBEG. It is again a very detailed report and also a report to think about. Unfortunately, these recommendations of the Court of Auditors have only been partially implemented – I am brief. It has already been said that, although cost awareness and transparency have been increased in recent years, the review of effectiveness and economic efficiency have not been demonstrated here. On the contrary: We can say that this high cost of the SIVBEG could be reduced by bringing together these double and triple structures, namely SIVBEG, the Federal Ministry of State Defense and BIG. This will certainly be a task that we all have to solve together. A number of RH recommendations are not implemented. I'd like to take a few out. For example, a necessary change to the BIG existing syndicate contract with regard to the success fee for successful sales accounts has not been implemented. Honors of around €300 000 were paid to the BIG, although no contribution to success could be found. There were also shortcomings in the bidder procedure. Multiple publications in print media did not take place. The use of the maximum price competition was therefore of course not ensured. Also, the updating of price increases and the correction of the number of real estate exploitations have been neglected, according to the Court of Auditors report. Post evaluation of successful sales and the entry of project objectives or dates were neither available nor foreseen. At the end of the day, however, the measures recommended by the Court of Auditors have led to an increase in economic efficiency, because they have been implemented in part – my previous speaker has mentioned this – such as the documentation of the decision-making process, which leads to increased transparency. In particular, it was recommended by the Court of Auditors to use the financialprocuratorship in the area of legal advice. That is what we have done, and it has proved to be a positive one. In addition, target agreements were concluded with the employees only if appropriate arrangements existed. What can also be clearly seen in the report, the regulations of the Pönale have been revised: The SIVBEG expressly reserves the right to claim compensation for damages if the purchase price is not evaded within the time limit set. This has never been the case before, in the private sector, of course and indispensable. The implementation of the Court of Auditors' recommendations has therefore not only contributed significantly to improvement, but has also led to greater legal certainty in the SIVBEG. In summary, ladies and gentlemen, an evaluation of the SIVBEG's dual and triple structure not only entails savings potential, but also could bring substantial benefits in the organisation.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e26952	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e26973	Madam President. Mr President Moser! Thank you again to the Court of Auditors for accepting not only the New Secondary School but also an old problem, namely the sales of SIVBEG barracks. There is a follow-up review, and I am very grateful to all the SPÖ and ÖVP colleagues that they can take a lot of critical potential from this follow-up report by the Court of Auditors, which is intended to continue the 2010 report. And that's why we'd suggest: Let us draw a clear conclusion. In 2010, the Court of Auditors recommends that SIVBEG be included in the BIG. In 2013, the Court of Auditors recommends that SIVBEG be included in the BIG. This morning, the Minister of Finance recommends a reform in all areas so that we can save money in a reasonable way. Mr Klug's Minister of Defence urgently needs funding for military reform. And the oh so wonderful SIVBEG is completely unnecessary. The Court of Auditors' report speaks in the direction of the fact that the speakers of the political groups are making the same mistake. Therefore, please follow our request, which I am now submitting: [[Quoted print version removed]] Clear conclusion, clear conditions, the federal army breathes on, the Republic breathes, and you all have finally completed a good deed today. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e27028	The motion for a resolution tabled is sufficiently supported, properly implemented and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e27084	Next speaker: Mr Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e27107	Madam President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen! Three years after the Court of Auditors reported its figures on the evaluation of the New Middle School, the evaluation by the University of Salzburg on the New Middle School came out in February of this year. Today, statistics have shown Austria figures that appear to be positive, but at least gradually manages to bring more children to an AHS through the New Secondary School at the primary school, or to bring them to Matura or to a higher education school. So there are approaches that you can say that in the long term it will do something. We have said that this educational vapor is moving slowly. But to do that, the high funds we spend on it must be carefully looked at and taken into account. There, Mr Walser, it is very important to me to correct this: For us, the New Secondary School is a project to bring movement to the school of the 10- to 14-year-olds as a school attempt. You know for yourself, Vorarlberg and almost all of Burgenland have also forced schools that did not want to enter the school attempt to join this school every night. And then when other federal states, who wanted to join, suddenly the 10-percent clause was gone. When we negotiated, and now my accusation of... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] That's just for clarification. You're making calls again – come out and answer! That's what's annoyed me, because the colleague Amon – who has been missing all day – said that we don't want to extend the school effort – and that's the crucial point now – we want to transfer the model to the regular school system. And overnight also the agreement of the responsible Finance Minister was there: It is financed, it is covered. I don't think that's all right, that you're going here now and making a request that you've made – we weren't convinced, but we've given up, it's a common procedure, we've also represented it – now criticize. This is not all right, and I would like to criticize that. Opposition is opposition, but if you, as a government party, are criticized by a project that was enforced by you in the form that this is no longer an attempt at school, but rather a regular schooling, then child care is. And you shouldn't need that.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e27150	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the request of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure to take note of this report III-30 of the additions. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Zanger, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, on the immediate resolution of the SIVBEG. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is the minority, therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Strolz, colleagues, on a free-standing quality budget at the new secondary schools instead of compulsory team teaching. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Strolz, colleagues on school autonomy. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Strolz, colleagues on performance assessment NMS. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Moser, ladies and gentlemen, on the resolution of the SIVBEG. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[22:08:26]] 26. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report Series Bund 2014/5 (III-57/546 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e27262	We're going to the 26th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Bösch was the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e27289	Madam President. Mr President, Dr. Moser! Ladies and gentlemen! In this report, the Court of Auditors is dealing with a property transaction from 2009 to 2011. I mention this because it is particularly striking. This is the Dabsch-Kaserne in Korneuburg, a purchase-turn-off process that has happened in these years that I have mentioned. The Court of Auditors has shown that the public sector has adopted a 72 percent low rate of exchange. A 72 percent low exchange rate – if we do so, we will after all be harmed by the Republic of €1.3 million. I repeat: in damage of 1.3 million €! The Federal Minister for Defence has admitted this error in the Court of Auditors and has also announced that legal action should be taken. Mr President, Mr Moser, I am very grateful to you for showing this case because it makes clear how unnecessarily the assets of the Republic and the structures of the Austrian federal army are occasionally thrown away. Ladies and gentlemen, we will not allow this to happen. We will also not let your praise on the demolition of the Austrian federal army go through. We liberals will continue to ensure that the assets of the Republic of Austria and the structures of the Federal Army are preserved as necessary.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e27351	The next item is the speech by Mr Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e27373	Madam President. Mr President, Dr. Moser! I should like to focus on the report on the shortcomings in payment flows in connection with the Federal Pensions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] [[Abg. Just talk to us!]] The objective of the audit was to assess the transparency and comprehensibleness of the payment flows in connection with federally funded pensions and their presentation in the federal budget. I would like to expressly say – I did so in committee – that: Mr President, Mr Moser, you know that I appreciate the reports of your officials, and I think that they have made a special effort with this graphic, which is really plastic, in which areas these federally funded pensions work, the exclusions, the groups of companies, starting with the ÖBB on the state teachers, the Poststructural Law et cetera. This is very comprehensive, for me an important area is – you mentioned the number – that € 4 million will be paid out from the Ministry of Finance without finding the correctness. I believe that this is a number that is very, very important and crucial for you to be able to turn these things off. You speak in eight – I have chosen it – of your 36 recommendations on the importance of future financial compensation. I could list it to you, but don't do it because of the time constraints. They summarise what should be taken into account for the forthcoming financial compensatory negotiations or, subsequently, for the amendment of the Financial Balance Act. It may even be recommended that the President of the Court of Auditors should be included in the next financial compensatory negotiations. This has already been quoted by the coalition partner today; I think these things would be very important. Finally: The competent minister who was with us, Minister of Social Affairs Hundstorfer, had essentially a point to represent, point 30 of your recommendations – I may quote –: “All care expenses, i.e. care expenses for officials, should be estimated in UG 21 in order to take account of the principle of effective budget management and to ensure a transparent and complete overview of the expenditure on care expenses.” In order to clarify this for all: the UG 23 includes pensions for officials, distributed institutions, but also care money for officials, although care money would actually be estimated in the UG 21. Therefore, the Minister of Social Affairs has insisted and said that it would, of course, also be his wish and would also be in line with the budgetary truth if one wanted to do so, but there is the implementation of the Ministry of Finance. In conclusion, I would like to mention a number of the following: At least € 212 million has been spent on care money alone in 2014. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e27415	Mr Angerer, the next speaker, is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e27437	Madam President. Mr President, Dr. Moser! Appreciate High House! In this series of the Court of Auditors' report, the Court of Auditors is also concerned with the payment flows for federally funded pensions. This is about distributed institutions, companies according to the Poststructural Act, the Federal Authority, the ÖBB group of companies and the state teachers. Since this is a nice example of red-black inefficiency, lack of control and the privilege swamps in Austria, I would like to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e27455	Ladies and gentlemen, I am not of the opinion that every word must be placed on the scale and called for. I would really ask you, because it has been quite well done so far, so to speak, to delete certain words from your vocabulary – at least here in this House. [[Call the FPÖ:What words? What did he say? Should he talk or shouldn't he talk?]] – The colleague knows: It was the word “privileged jungle. ”
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e27489	So I’m leaving “sump ” now, I’m just saying“ privileges. ” It is about federal pensions, and there would be some privileges to highlight. It is not about small items, it is about €1.4 billion paid over the federal government, and the Court of Auditors report indicates that there is no control that there is actually data from countries that cannot be controlled – and that only between 2005 and 2011 7 to 8 million euros of cover contributions to pensions have been paid out than paid. If you look at this, you can see that there are still so small details in Upper Austria and Salzburg, where the state teachers get so-called Christmas gifts. There is no federal cover for this, but they are paid. That is what the Court of Auditors has shown. The Salzburgers have stopped with these Christmas gifts; in Upper Austria there are still them. Obviously, this pension area is simply important to you, and the report shows once again what privileges there are. When I look at the National Bank, on average 87 000 € Privilege pension per year – i.e. the average is €87 800 in the National Bank – is not a small one. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kitzmüller]] And if you know who's inside, you know why this system of red and black is always defended. Dr. Bernd Marin is not unknown and knows himself quite well with the pensions, and he says, for example – I quote him – that the special pension law, which has been introduced here, is a drop on the hot stone. In the long term, he says he spends much more for luxury pensions than the Hypo Alpe-Adria costs the taxpayer. Mr Matznetter, if you only abolished the privileges, you would at least have ignored the damage you caused by the nationalisation of the hypo and by the years of non-holiday. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e27542	Mr Lugar spoke on the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e27567	Madam President, I do not think it is in the sense of the House if we are already giving orders for ‘privileged young people’. If insulting or other things are said, you can intervene, of course, but I do not think it is covered to intervene in “privileged jungles”. [[Call the FPÖ: Unbelievable!]] This is a very harmless concept, which simply wants to express that there are many privileges and that it is jungle-like. So I don't think it's allowed to do this with a call for order, because otherwise Parliament is ridiculous. [[Call the FPÖ:Exactly!]] I believe that this is not in the sense that the dignity of the House is preserved, quite the contrary. I believe that we are reaching exactly the opposite. So I would ask you not to proceed so rigorously in the future and not to suspect such things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e27609	Mr deputies, the orderliness is the result of the situation. I referred to this, so I did not give Mr Angerer a call for order, but asked him to remove the expressions “privileged” and “privileged boy” here in that place from the vocabulary. That was my procedure. [[Mr Kitzmüller, Mr Doppler and Mr Lausch.]] Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Lettenbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e27651	Madam President. Mr President, Dr. Moser! I'm trying to get out without a call for order. I would like to confine myself to two things from this whole convoluted convoy which the Court of Auditors has presented. On the one hand, we have not yet discussed this – we are concerned with the military representations abroad. This is a follow-up review by the Court of Auditors, and it is actually gratifying that one has seen that eight of the originally expressed 16 recommendations have been fully implemented, six in part; two have not been implemented. The Ministry of Defence has not implemented the recommendation to reduce staffing in Brussels and to conclude a binding meeting agreement with the Federal Ministry of European and International Affairs. A bit curious is that in Brussels the workforce has even increased in recent years and has not been reduced as recommended by the Court of Auditors. It was originally 50 employees, now it is 53. But there is a need to differentiate: Of these 53 persons, 29 were active in international functions and 24 were in national function. The comparison that has also been made in the report or that was made by Mr Moser at the committee meeting is a good comparison, as I believe. Sweden has about the same number of inhabitants, a little more even, and has a third of its employees in national function, with eight, while Austria has just 24 employees who perform national functions. Secondly, I have mentioned it, there is no meeting agreement with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and there are no rules for a structured exchange of information between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Defence. My previous speaker, Mr Angerer, has already raised points: In the Federal Pensions I want to focus on the proportion of Incapacity for Service, because the Court of Auditors has also shown interesting figures that in the case of federal teachers in official status 8.1 percent have been retired due to incapacity for service; in the case of teachers in the national service, this proportion already doubles. The federal states of Salzburg and Upper Austria were examined, where there is a service incapacity rate of 16 percent to 18 percent. It then becomes equivalent to two other facilities, at the post and at the train. In the post, every second official was retired due to incapacity for service, and only about 0.5 percent of all retired officials in companies under the Poststructural Act had reached or were above the legal age of entry. The Court of Auditors has rightly recommended that it would be useful in future for officials to be examined by the BVA for their incapacity to serve. The same applies to the ÖBB, where the share of pension transfers due to incapacity for work was about 42 percent. An interesting number – we heard this today in the early days of our clubman –: The retirement age at ÖBB is 53.9 years and is therefore 6.6 years lower than for officials in the Authority. So we see that there is a need for action. The appropriate ministers are required to implement this in order to eliminate these misunderstandings or imbalances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e27718	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e27739	Madam President. Mr President. If it weren't so serious, you'd have to include the Causa Property Exchange – Property Exchange is also called – Urban Development Fund Korneuburg in the series of the Republic's shield-bourgeois in the real estate business; if it weren't so serious. Once you look at this representation, this graphic, you see the core of this shield-citizen's stroke, which is why the overall management of the Republic often works in the case of real estate sales to the damage of the Republic. [[the speaker shows a graphic]] This is, as it were, just one case in an entire chain and series of cases. This is a case which Mr Bösch has briefly put down with figures; I should like to make it clear once again. What do you think if a private person changes an area of 4,562 square meters to an area of 30,000 square meters? There he gets practically one seventh of the price seven times as much. [[call to the FPÖ.]] And the Republic, the army looks through its fingers: €1.3 million loss in this business. They exchange 4,000 and a few more square meters at 30,000 square meters. I mean, if that's not a shield citizen's stroke! I know this is a complicated story, but just when it's complicated, should the Republic, should also use the country's defence department to work professionally, to attract experts and experts, should they use the federal real estate society – and not, as it was unfortunately in this case, the people in their own home deal with it that was completely over-needed. It wasn't even the SIVBEG in the game. The resort itself carried out an exchange action, as said, one in which one can only touch the head! Now, even the Minister has not only found out in the Committee that this was a mistake but also announced legal recovery. I am curious about how this will be done and whether it will be carried out, because the Court of Auditors' report still complains that, until the Court of Auditors' examination has been completed, no appropriate steps have been taken to ensure that the Republic or the defence resort is left unharmed. I come to the general issue: The Court of Auditors' reports – and I thank you every time for these reports – should not only open our eyes but also encourage us to do more. I thank you every time for the reports, and I have to say again every time: It's on paper, many say: Yes, it's really outrageous what happened there!, but few suffer the consequences. Unfortunately, the majority in this House does not succeed. I am sorry that we are dealing with up to four reports every month in the Court of Auditors, the consequences of these four reports, the Court of Auditors' opinions, but the Court of Auditors' recommendations are more or less ineffective. There is once again an activity report at the end of the year, in which Mr Moser can at least point out that up to 80 percent of the Court's proposals have been implemented, only if one conducts negotiations and discussions on individual reports in the Committee with the competent minister, one often receives an axle tip as a “answer”. Unfortunately, my colleague, Mr Schwentner, has also received this from Mr Sozialminister Hundstorfer. I can remember that the Minister of Defense was a little clumsy, but the majority is not doing anything. Interestingly, Mr Ottenschlager said in this discussion that this was devastating and that, as a whole, a proper real estate management had to take place in the Republic. In the same committee, we put forward an application which is precisely based on the Court of Auditors' findings, which, as the application text, have the Court of Auditors' recommendations on how to improve the Republic's real estate management, and what does the majority in the committee do? – She says: Yes, is guat, is guat – but we await! That is exactly what the Republic as a whole is suffering: that you do not take the Court of Auditors seriously, nor take constructive practices in any way, but say: Yes, yes, well, owa tuan mama's just! I am deliberately saying this because it is really outrageous. This is unfair and quite frustrating for the President of the Court of Auditors. Courtesy. This is not in itself correct with the majority of the population, because we in this Parliament are the administrators of the Republic's assets. Ladies and gentlemen in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure of the Government of the Court of Auditors, it is only when it comes to finally changing and saying something: Yeah, that's what we do! That's right, that's right, owa tuan aan ma's just! I mean, with this unculture, I have to say now, I have to end at last! I say to you that I am going to think of resources – and I am really not lazy and not imaginative – so that you can no longer use the long bank as a perspective for the Court of Auditors proposals, but that you can finally take action in the short term, because it is about tax money, it is about what you are talking about. You have to re-estimate each time you decide on a budget. The Court of Auditors has fifty proposals on how the Republic's resources could finally be dealt with more properly. You have already voted away from one of these proposals: with the resolution of the SIVBEG. It is really a pity every time – and, Madam President Bures, you too should help us a little, because the Court of Auditors is an institution of the National Council, and you are the President of the National Council, therefore: Look at your majority groups – you are finally from SPÖ – that the Court of Auditors’ recommendations fall on fertile ground in the SPÖ! As President of the National Council, you should also help the National Council to ensure that recommendations from the Court of Auditors no longer ‘seal’ the long bank, but finally fall on fertile parliamentary ground! Again one of the numerous appeals – and hopefully not for nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e27848	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e27870	Madam President. Thank you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for your late shift. High house! Mr. Lettenbichler, if you wonder about early retirementitis in the public service, I think Klubobmann Lopatka can explain to you how this works with the red and black silence policy: I don’t do anything “your” ÖBBlers and the Vienna state officials, for which you leave “my” teachers and officials alone! [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Kitzmüller.]] The Court of Auditors' report on payment flows related to federally funded pensions indicates the division of competence: Budgetary is the BMF responsible for expenditure, the law on service law lies with the Federal Chancellery, and the personal economic measures, in particular retirement changes, lie with the respective ministry itself. To this end, the Court of Auditors says: ‘However, budgetary responsibility can only be fully realised if the possibility of controlling and affecting expenditure is given by setting and keeping meaningful targets of effect.’ And if it is to be read in terms of the impact goals that pensions are paid out on time, that is – apologies for this expression! – a ridiculous goal of action. The budgetary and legal competence must be brought together, and from our point of view, it would be useful to establish the social ministry, which has a good knowledge of labour law and pension law. The presentation of pension expenses is not carried out by resorts, and therefore no expenditure dynamics can be shown; therefore there is no control information on the individual resorts either. In addition – and this is much more angry –: A ministry has no incentive to implement a policy that will lead to a later retirement. On the contrary: By early retirement you can “move” expensive officials into the UG 23 from the cost of the department and thus “relieved ” his ministry. There is actually the wrong incentive! In order to take full action and control, other measures are needed and I therefore propose the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you. .. [[Congratulation with the NEOS]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e27946	This motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e28013	Next speaker: Mrs Gusenbauer-Jäger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e28035	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! What is this about in the specific case? It has been mentioned several times today: In 2011, the Republic of Austria did not draw up a revenue potential of €1.3 million. This has already been mentioned by Mrs Moser and Mr Bösch. This was a property exchange between the Ministry of Defence and a private company, with, so to speak, a 72 percent exchange rate not being collected. The basis for this exchange, however, was made with a transport report and was found by the official experts and by the Ministry of Finance for good. – Afterwards, it became apparent that non-comprehensible deposits were attributed to the public estate – and therefore this exchange. I already know that if you want to keep a company in the town, in the community, you have to act very sensitive; especially I know this very well as mayor. [[Abg. Moser: The guarantee is missing!]] This is just so if you want to stop a company to stay or move to a settlement. Nevertheless, it should be noted – quite rightly – that in this case the public hand was damaged and the procedure was not carried out properly. What do we learn from this or the corresponding place of business? – The Court of Auditors has rightly criticized – and Mr Klug, the Federal Minister, has also conceded this – that not everything went well. Whether an out-of-court contract adjustment will succeed in remedying the damage caused will prove to be evident. What else do we learn from it? – that such an exchange should not be handled by officials who do not have any relevant real estate training or similar knowledge. Today, of course, there would be a different approach: precisely with the SIVBEG, now established and professionally active, in which both the financial procuratorship and the BIG are involved. Mr Zanger said that the BIG should take over the SIVBEG – but it is already involved. Again: If one were to do so, such a mistake would not likely occur again. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e28090	Mr Ottenschlager is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e28112	Madam President. Mr President Moser! Mrs Gabriele Moser, in this case I would particularly like to address a few words to you – as, of course, to all other colleagues. You have described this case correctly, Mrs Moser, but from my point of view, you have disagreed with it. You have the request you have made here with regard to a resolution of the SIVBEG. On the one hand, you say we don't need them anymore – and on the other hand, you rightly say we need a professional settlement for all property transactions of the federal government, but also other entities, for example the social insurance companies. At the time I proposed to the Court of Auditors that we deal with property transactions by social security companies, but also all other stakeholders, such as the Ministries on the pros, for example, of the Bundesimmobiliengesellschaft. Believe me – I have already explained it in committee – I am a small market participant, but I know a lot in the industry, and the SIVBEG is quite a market participant who is careful and who tells people who behave professionally, that is being done well. So I don't understand the intention of saying that we solve it. And then what happens? – Then it ends up in the ministry first, and that's exactly what you don't want. [[Abg. Moser: Read the application!]] We need an overall concept. We can have a wonderful discussion about headings, for example whether the SIVBEG would be different. The SIVBEG is a subcontractor at the Bundesimmobiliengesellschaft; it is 45 percent owned by the BIG, so it has professionals for these transactions, and I have already explained it in the committee, such... – But please, I have also explained to you that it is not a small rental apartment that is simply thrown on the market, where you switch an “inseraterl” but there are quite other preparatory work before you get to such a transaction. [[Abg. Moser: Five!]] You can't do that with a broker and then thank you. This is a method of dedication, and it is discussed with the community; You know that, too. In my opinion, you are now talking a little bit about improving your knowledge; I am going to put it to you now. I really believe that it is reasonable to talk about creating a centre of competence for such property transactions, including as an offer for all ministries, for social security companies, to deal professionally with these things that are about a lot of money. Your request is actually going in the wrong direction, namely simply to say: Let's fix this from today to tomorrow, because there's the professionals sitting there! – You have made a request. [[Abg. Moser: You have not read the application!]] [[Abg. Moser: I said, dissolve and transfer the BIG!]] – Yes, but what happens then – be honest! –: Of course, they're getting the know-how, that's just a headline change. This is already a little superficial discussion in this context. That's why I'm saying: We should devote ourselves to a topic that is really important, namely how we get all the essential property transactions into the competence center. What this actually means and whether it's at this or that location is actually minor, because: We need to pool the competences to deal with the tax money properly.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e28201	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Meinl-Risinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e28223	Madam President. Mr President, Mr Moser! I'm coming to another subject now. As a Judge of my group, I would like to talk about this Court of Auditors report, and I should now like to draw up the prosecution procedure. The Court of Auditors has identified the high cost of experts in its report, in addition to the long duration of the procedures. Over the past few months, I have been working intensively on the issue of the implementation of measures, and we will then discuss this issue tomorrow, in the context of the debate on a report from the Human Rights Committee. A subject that comes back to the discussion is the issue of the lack of quality of the opinions. [[Following calls and calls between the orderly Moser and Pendl.]] . I would really like to speak now on the subject of prosecution proceedings, perhaps you can discuss outside. The quality of the opinions should be increased in general, in all areas. In the implementation of measures, poor quality is particularly dramatic, because this will have, of course, an impact which is of major importance to those concerned. Now it is true that in Austria we have relatively few experts in this field, also few in the field of forensic advice. It is therefore also clear that when you ask yourself the question of how such a review would look and what body it could take, because it might need to go abroad to make a sample review of the quality. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Another initiative I would like to take on the basis of this Court of Auditors report, which I believe would contribute to the quality of the investigation process, is the question of what new technologies can be used. We know that there are problems again and again when, for example, non-German-speaking citizens come to an agreement. – The government programme also intends to use new technologies. In my opinion, it is also a cost argument which would be used to introduce a video recording if it was agreed. Therefore, I would like to make the following second request: Resolution of Deputies Mag. Beate Meinl-Reisinger and colleagues on the introduction of video recordings in criminal proceedings The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Government, in particular the Federal Minister for Justice, is invited to submit a draft law to the National Council as soon as possible, by which written logging in criminal proceedings by video recording at the The agreement and the rule of law shall be replaced. Special attention should be paid to the data protection of those concerned.” Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e28322	The motions for resolutions have been properly tabled and are therefore under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e28423	Next speaker: Mr Christ. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e28445	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! I should like to comment briefly on the recommendations of the Court of Auditors from 2011 on military representations abroad. I believe that it should also be mentioned here in positive terms on RH recommendations; so often this is not the case. In this case, however, we may report – and the Court of Auditors confirms this – that: Of the 16 recommendations, eight have been fully implemented by the ministry, six in part, two not yet, there is still some work. For example, I would like to point out that it was recommended to look at and evaluate the needs of the defence attachés. This was done; this figure was reduced by 25 percent. On the part of the Court of Auditors, for example, the creation or compliance with rotational requirements for military diplomacy personnel has also been encouraged, and this has been fully implemented. Furthermore, for example, the RH recommended an improvement in property documentation and the appropriate use of unused properties; everything was implemented. As I said, one or the other is still at work. However, it is also, for example, a re-evaluation or a restriction on cost compensation for: Public relations between staff employed abroad. This saved € 230 000. Some points are still under way, and I should like to quote Mr. Klug, who, in a debate with Members, said that since the Court of Auditors' examination, the need for an Austrian military representation has increased abroad, particularly as regards the level of staffing in multilateral and bilateral foreign representations. This is justified on the one hand by the Security and Defence Doctrine, on the other with the ever-increasing cooperation efforts, and, in particular, the military representations are the “eyes and ears” of the German army abroad. Especially in times like this, this is very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e28496	The President of the Court of Auditors, Dr Moser, spoke. Please, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e28517	Madam President. High house! Agenda items 22 to 26 cover a total of 24 reports from the Court of Auditors, including contributions from social, educational, health, real estate, transport and infrastructure, personnel, justice and administrative reform. I will not address all of these 24 contributions, but I would just like to draw up a few points, including the eight follow-up reviews which are on the agenda today and show how the Court of Auditors' impact looks. These eight follow-up reviews include 143 recommendations. 110 recommendations have been implemented or are in implementation. Unfortunately, as Mrs Moser has already mentioned, those recommendations, which have remained open, are precisely those that go into the structural measures, or can eliminate double liquefaction, inefficiency and the remaining conflicts. In those cases, as several actors have to work together, the will for implementation is, unfortunately, an end to it. This is also reflected in the case of the SIVBEG, with regard to which Mr Ottenschlager also pointed out that he would have the necessary know-how if necessary. However, I would just like to point out that the SIVBEG has a managing director, two lawyers – one of them is paid by the BIG – two project managers and one assistant. From the RH's point of view, it is difficult to maintain in this area with these five employees the know-how needed to bring an optimal handling over the stage. This also shows the Court of Auditors' report on cases, including the Korner Kaserne case, in order to explain that the very construction that exists does not lead to the efficiency to which it should lead. The further reports on the agenda today also show potential where to go. Among other things, the reports demonstrate the need for improved coordination between the Federal Government and countries. This concerns the need-oriented minimum security and also the New Secondary School. They also show the need for a fairer distribution of responsibility to the local authorities, because there is a constant shift of burden, also against the constitutional distribution of competence, such as in the case of cash flows of federally funded pensions, minimum security of demand and also of the New Secondary School. The reports also show the need for reform on the federal side, for example as regards the protection of workers. They also point out the need to implement reforms within the meaning of citizens when it comes to quality assurance in patient treatment or canal rehabilitation or public investigation procedures. They also point to the need for a more economical use of public resources. Among other things, the Property Transactions in Korneuburg, as well as the personnel measures in the State Defense Region, were addressed – measures that would be taken to ensure that precisely those inefficiencies, double-tracks, conflicts of interest can be eliminated so that the funds are available to create jobs so that research, innovation and education can be driven forward. These funds are missing, which also shows, among other things, the budget implementation of the year 2014, to which you will be presented tomorrow to the Federal Accounts. This also shows the Federal Financial Framework, which proves that measures are necessary, in particular on the disbursement side. That is why I can only appeal for the Court of Auditors' recommendations to be implemented. This would result in the money coming back to where it should go – to the citizens, in which case also to the students, or also to the patients, in order to get out of just a few interest groups. – Thank you for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e28582	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Auditors to take note of this report III-57 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Members. Loacker, colleagues on legal and financial responsibility for civil servants' pension rights in the Ministry of Social Affairs. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Meinl-Reisinger and colleagues on the evaluation of court opinions. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Finally, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Members. Meinl-Reisinger and colleagues on the introduction of video recordings in criminal proceedings. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[22:51:50]] 27. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the report of the Court of Auditors on the 2014 income report in accordance with Art. 1 § 8 Remuneration Restriction Act, BGBl. I No. 64/1997; Report years 2012/2013 (row income 2014/1) (III-124/577 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e28673	==References== Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Kucher. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e28700	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Every two years, the High House, the Court of Auditors presents an extensive study in the so-called income report, giving us an insight into the income situation of the population. It is divided into areas such as workers, employees, public service, self-employed and pensioners. We learn how the differences in the incomes of men and women have changed, how the wages of the professional groups and the situation in the individual Länder look. We discussed this very intensively in the Court of Auditors. Some suggestions, I believe, have also approached us all and have shown us all that we urgently need to change something. In many areas, thanks be to God in the meantime a lot has already happened. To perhaps start with the positive: At least in the area of income, income shears between men and women have been slightly reduced, although they continue to exist and unfortunately we have to say that two thirds of women are completely excluded from positive developments in this area because they work part-time or are not employed all year round. Women still deserve significantly less than men in almost all employment groups today – an important point for all of us, I believe. It is important to work on it and this is also urgent to counter it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The average female income in Austria is only 61 percent of the male income. This downturn in public service income is much less detrimental: there is only a 5 percent reduction in public service, and in other areas it is much worse. In comparison, for example, women workers earn only 43 percent of what their male colleagues receive. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gisela Worm.]] One important reason we should all discuss is part-time work, part-time work. The worst thing is that more than four-fifths of all persons working part-time throughout the year are women, women are particularly affected and women do not make it voluntary in many cases, but on the one hand, as a reason for lack of childcare, on the other hand, indicate nursing activities. The tension is that this justification of men working part-time comes in the latter place, that this is not an argument for men, that men are rather training and training than that they are working part-time, or that there are too few full-time jobs. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gisela Worm]] As a policy, we are required to do even more in the area of childcare facilities. We will invest a few hundred million in the next few years. It has to go on urgently. I believe that the tax reform, which will be effective from next year onwards, will do a lot of good for small and medium-sized incomes, and there will be positive developments in this area in particular. In principle, however, we are all called upon in this area to fight together, especially in the case of women's incomes, for men and women to have equal opportunities in the labour market and opportunities for life in our society.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e28764	The next item is the speech by Mr Singer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e28785	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Dear ladies and gentlemen! As always, the 2014 income report is a good basis for taking a comprehensive look at the current state of the art of income, the development of incomes and also the number of employees in different areas. However, it is necessary to deal very closely with the report in order to be able to draw the relevant conclusions. If you look at the various broadcasts, you have to say: Unfortunately, it is not always possible to recognise intensive employment. Ladies and gentlemen, we had 4,126 million self-employed in 2013, 87 percent of them employed in the private sector and 13 percent in the public service. There has been a significant increase from 1998 to 2013, an increase of 22 percent. The number of part-time workers has already been addressed – and this is a very important factor for the overall assessment. About 1 282,000 people are part-time employed, with a 32 percent share being very high. And if you look at the development of 2004, you can see that there is an increase of 40 percent. Interesting are the reasons which the Court of Auditors has identified. One can clearly see that – Mr Kucher has already mentioned this –: Part-time is female. And if 419 000 women are employed in childcare and in adult care, compared to about 12,000 men, this is a clear language; also, 165,000 women do not voluntarily pursue full-time employment – compared with 12,000 men – speaks a clear language. It is quite different in education and training. There there are 99 000 women and 89 000 men, i.e. about equality. The report examines all employment groups. I would like to take a closer look at the incomes of officials, since they are often misinterpreted with superficial consideration. The median income of officials was determined at € 51 408, contrary to this, the total group of self-employed persons is €25 767. There are many reasons for this. On the one hand, the proportion of academics among officials is above average compared to other groups. He is 42 per cent of the staff, 22 per cent of the other employees. On average, officials are also older than the other employment groups, namely, about 12 years old. Also, officials are less in part-time employment: It's 10 percent, 59 percent for workers. There is also a great difference which affects income accordingly. It is also – and this has already been noted – a smaller difference in income among women in the field of officials. Ladies and gentlemen, this report is a very comprehensive one, and I should like to end by thanking the staff of the Court of Auditors – because it is really a good basis for assessing the incomes of the Austrian employment groups accordingly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e28836	Next speaker: Mr Zanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e28858	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr Kucher, it would of course be interesting to look at your comments now, but I think that would break the scope of my speaking time, and we will do that again. We can then discuss women's incomes a little differently and why this is so and perhaps it should be a little different. We certainly have some differences of opinion, but we can do that once, we two. Generally speaking, the income report states: When I read the presentation made by the President of the Committee I noticed a few points that I thought very thoughtfully. Overall, inflation-adjusted income from 1998 to 2013 has fallen significantly, by 4.43 percent in concrete terms. That is, it's what we always say and what every person feels outside: It remains less and less money for life. People deserve less, and life is getting more expensive, they can't afford it anymore. This has also been expressed in concrete terms here. A number that shocks me particularly is the following: In 11 of 15 years, inflation-adjustedly, there has been a loss of income – for our working population, for our citizens here in this country! Very interesting is also the income difference that has been worked out between workers, employees and officials. While today the official earns 123 percent of what he earned in 1998, i.e. not a devaluation of money, but practically an increase in money, and the employee today has 101 percent, i.e. also had a real increase in income, the worker loses money, namely: If it was 100 percent in 1998, today it is only 86 percent. If you think about how many people in Austria belong to the working shift, you are particularly concerned. In fact, we should not just follow the President's presentation in the Committee and then discuss it a little bit, bring the report into plenary, then he will be cut off and shubbled. - That's a lot too bad. This report has much more potential than it would have to be treated in such a way. [[Abg. Moser: Consequences!]] We need ministers in the future for the income report. It would be interesting to discuss this report in committee with the Minister for Labour, Hundstorfer. [[Abg. Moser: With the Minister of Finance!]] We need to talk about it: Now these are the facts, how is it going on, what are we doing about it? It can't make sense of such a great work that it finds such a deal. Let's take a look at the low wages! Those 10 percent of those who have the lowest incomes earn only 65 percent of what they earned in 1998. That's a minus of over a third, that's dramatic! These are the weakest of society anyway, and they are more and more together. On the other hand, the highest incomes, i.e. those that deserve well, today have more than 1998, namely 104 percent. – There's something damn wrong in this country, that's definitely a closer look! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Yes, I have already mentioned the consequence, for me and for my group it is clear: This report should be given much more attention in the future, and there are ministers in the Committee to discuss the income report! Mr President, thank you for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e28917	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e28938	Madam President. Mr President. High house! Thank you very much, Mr Dr. Moser, for this report – a very valuable document on distribution policy issues. As a result, the results we find inside are sobering. I would like to stress two points: firstly, the difference in income between men and women, the so-called Gender Pay Gap. In the mean, women earn 39 percent less than men, in the net view it is a little less, but still very bad. On the other hand, taking into account that this is partly due to part-time employment, but also to the fact that women work in occupations which are less paid, it is noted that: This leads to the fact that, in a year-round comparison, there are still very high differences between men's incomes and women's incomes. In the mean it is still 18 percent difference between men and women, in the private sector it is 30 percent. And these relations have not changed since 1998. - That's the disillusionment. The second disillusionment is that inflation-adjusted income has fallen compared with 1998. It is particularly dramatic – and this has already been emphasized by my previous speaker – in the consideration between the top 10 percent and the bottom 10 percent, but also between the top 25 percent and the bottom 25 percent. That is to say, there has been a difference between the upper and lower incomes, Mr Kucher, not the other way round. What must be followed by it? – It must be concluded that, among other things, one has an action guide to a tax reform, which says that lower incomes have to be taxed more strongly than the higher incomes – and if I look at the government's tariff, I can see that it is exactly the opposite. I have to correct you again, Mr. Kucher: It is not the lower incomes that are more relieved than the middle and upper ones, but it is so that the upper incomes are more relieved than the lower ones. And that, mine. Ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, is a disgrace against the results of this income report! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e28983	The next item is Mrs Schenk's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e29005	Madam President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning of my remarks, I would also like to thank the President-in-Office of the Court of Auditors for this very comprehensive, very informative and improved report, which we were able to discuss in the last Committee on the Court of Auditors. My previous speakers have already predicted a number of things: This report shall be drawn up every two years. It is very cost-intensive, it offers a wide range of data, figures, facts – but, and that has already been mentioned, when it comes to implementation, it has to be done. I would also like to take this opportunity to appeal to all colleagues – not only in the Court of Auditors, but here in the High House – because we also discussed this in the last Committee on the Court of Auditors on the verge of the Court of Auditors, some previous speakers have mentioned that this report is also a basis for seeing how something should be changed and how something needs to be changed – and, above all, where something needs to be changed. It must be borne in mind that this report, as has been said, is being laid every two years and is hardly changing: the gap between the poor and the rich, between the low and high incomes is increasing. You can no longer live on income. The pay shears between women and men are also existent – you can argue about the height, because there are always different calculations, depending on the calculation model, the percentage is also generated, but it is a fact that a salary shear is there. Even the self-employed have a pay gap between men and women, as this Court of Auditors report shows quite clearly. As has been said, in the last Committee on the Court of Auditors, we have talked about inviting other ministers to discuss this report. It has already been referred to as the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs and, of course, the Minister for Women, because it is also about the problem between women and men in terms of pay. Then we can also discuss in detail the problems raised by Mr Zanger earlier, with Mr Kucher. I think that this would be very good and important for all of us – and not only for us, because it is much more important that it is right and important for the people. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] It is also important that we do work here for citizens and that the Court of Auditors does not make this report in vain, which, as has been said, costs little. I think it costs €300 000, if I remember correctly, that was what the President of the Court of Auditors once informed us. This money should not be wasted, but it is really a well-founded work document for all of us who should also read all the Members. The President of the Court of Auditors has also sent the excellent presentation to all by e-mail. You can really work on it, and we should. What's going on? – Since 1998, nothing has changed. And I hardly think that when we talk about it again in two years, something will change until then if we don't really do something. And there I have to have a lance too. break for the Chairman of the Court of Auditors Moser, who, at the previous item on the agenda, has already said critically that the implementation is very slow, the recommendations are being implemented very slowly. Everyone praises the Court of Auditors, but their report is put to the record, and nothing happens. I would like to join the Committee President in calling for implementation. And I hope that in two years, when we discuss the income report here again, we will have to discuss and report better, and that at last something has improved, that the pay-as-you-go between women and men and between the poor and the rich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e29069	The next item is the speech by Mr Pock. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e29090	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) My speaking time is very short, so I come to the point. The present income report is nothing but proof that there has actually been a total failure of the various governments over the past 15 years. All the political objectives have not been achieved. A rise in income shears between the poor and the rich is observed. Average income has fallen in most sectors, not in all, but in most sectors. There are significant differences between men and women's incomes in all sectors. As far as the work biography is concerned, there is a topic here that women still, if they have a child, are at home for years at a time, get heavy, then come in part-time, do not reach corresponding pension entitlements and then be adopted into the poverty of old age. It is all on the table where you can actually operate with solutions, where you can also take measures in the short term. We NEOS have put in all the requests: Right to care for children from the first year of life, automatic retirement and the adjustment of the age of women's retirement. – Thank you very much and nice evening.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e29121	The next item is the report by Mrs Lamassoure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e29142	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! The Court of Auditors' income report is always eagerly expected because it is an important decision-making basis for us, this time a more precise one, because it offers a very differentiated presentation: by professional groups, even after part-time and full-time. I would like to deal with two areas: women's and men's incomes. The conclusions of the report confirm the assumptions that are particularly relevant to the difference in income between women and men's incomes, i.e.: Women are more represented in the low wage sector, more in services and less in leadership. Men work in the better-paid production sector, occupy most of the management positions, and they are hardly part-time employed. What tasks can be derived from them? First of all, we should ask ourselves the question of what activity is worth. I say it a little polemic: As long as the car may cost whatever it wants, or almost cost what it wants to do, at the same time the care or, for example, childcare is considered a generous female task and therefore also seen as a favourable service, as long as nothing will change in the wage structure. Secondly, we should also address the question of how we raise the talents of young people, i.e. how we can inspire and win girls for technical and scientific professions – thanks – for example through mandatory potential analysis, the maintenance of the girl’s day, “girl in technology”, “woman and technology” – these are programmes that continue to need it urgently. [[Complementary of the Abg. Yılmaz]] The same applies, of course, to mentoring and leadership courses. In any case, however, it takes – third – even more intensive information to clarify the consequences of decisions to be taken, i.e.: What profession do I choose? Am I working full-time or part-time? How long do I stay at home during the baby break? And what does all this have to do with my income or with my later pension? The second area I would like to address is the development of public employment. It has also been presented to the Court of Auditors. The federal government has reduced staff with some restrictions, and the countries and communities have increased staff. But before the usual country bashing starts here, you should rightly ask yourself how these increases result. I can tell you from Upper Austria: In the last five years, 650 posts have been saved in the administrative area, but staff has been recruited in other areas. These are the areas of care, youth welfare, child care – i.e. areas that are either critical in social policy and need more staff, such as youth welfare or nursing homes, or which are desirable for social policy, such as childcare. In summary, then, I think it is a bad style, on the one hand, to develop tasks that countries and communities have, and on the other hand to desist from the same countries and communities, that they also need more staff for these tasks which we demand from them. Finally, I would like to thank the Court of Auditors for this differentiated and very informative report.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e29203	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Auditors to take note of this report III-124 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. [[23:16:39]] 28. Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Judith Schwentner, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law with which the health and health services law (KAKuG), as last amended by the BGBl. I No. 32/2014, as well as the General Social Insurance Act, as last amended by the BGBl. I No. 2/2015, amended (1008/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e29252	In this way we reach the 28th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mrs Mag. Schwentner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e29279	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Yeah, it's about the hospital fee for co-insurers. We discussed this briefly in the Committee. It is actually an anachronism that has existed since 1997, namely that co-insurers – and this is especially about children – who have to go to the hospital have to pay a higher contribution than normal insured persons. We all know how families are doing when their children are in the hospital, and it is not to be seen why you have to pay for it in such a situation, in which it is very emotional, very difficult, then financially. The whole thing was called in 1997 with a term called “hotel component”, namely by saying that it has certain advantages that the child is in the hospital and not at home, because there is a little bit of a spare. So cynical things really don't work. This regulation has existed since 1997, it has been in the most diverse formations – the Greens have always opposed it, but otherwise in the most diverse formations, not only in the ÖVP-SPÖ formation, there has also been the formation ÖVP-FPÖ, everything possible – has always been carried on in any form of financial compensation to financial compensation. And I'd ask you: Can we now take advantage of the negotiations on this financial compensation in order to finally end this story that actually burdens families in a situation where they are already burdened? Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e29309	The next item is the speech by Mr Muchich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e29331	Mrs. Judith Schwentner! To your request: The aim is to change the fact that children and young people are excluded from the costs provided for by these provisions for them in the event of a stay in the hospital. As you know, there has already been a motion for a resolution which has been supported at a broad level. As you know, in the negotiations on the conclusion of the agreement under Article 15a with the countries, the relevant body has already tried to eliminate this – without success. The countries were not willing to agree at the time. This was justified by the loss of the corresponding revenue. They also know that a unilateral removal would be an intervention of the federal government in the current financial compensation. But that doesn't mean it doesn't have to be done – I'm full on your side. So the effort must go, that the countries will be convinced of this in the course of the 2016 financial compensation negotiations. But there is also another way, as you know. The national legislation now allows countries to give up these contributions. And I say, Wherever you have the opportunity to participate, where the Greens are in the state government, that would be an imaginable way. But otherwise, quite openly and honestly, we see only one possibility in the course of the 2016 financial compensation negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e29370	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Nice to meet you. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e29391	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! With a look at the clock, I should like to take a short look, but I would nevertheless like to take the opportunity to focus on once again and also to note in this debate that we are lucky to live in a country that has a health care system that is probably one of the best in the world. I believe that this debate should also be preceded. Mrs Schwentner, dear Judith, thank you for this request. He is quite original because if in the future the opposition repeatedly brings points from the government programme which we have agreed to to be here in plenary, we are very grateful for this, because this reminds us of the many points that we have worked together and which we want to implement. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Secondly, We agree that we want to eliminate this anachronism. [[Abg. Doppler: Then stop it!]] The point is: One cannot draw money out of the system that the system urgently needs. And that is why the question of financing arises. There you should be creative, behavioral. I think you know: It would make up €15 million if we implemented this today throughout the country. The tax reform – only as an idea or as an example – provides the workers' chambers with an additional income, a surprising surplus revenue, within the framework of the chamber setting! – exactly in the amount of € 15 million. That would be a creative approach, I think we could pursue. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We will hold this debate in the Committee. [[Abg. Doppler: Very good!]] And how to reform health systems without having to notice the quality of loss shows the Styrian Health Councillor Christopher Drexler. In this sense: Austria should heal at the Steirer Wesen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e29451	Next, Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e29473	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Dear colleague Schönegger! Thank you for, of course, finding a solution – that is beyond doubt. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, on the cost contributions for children's hospital stays: If a child needs to be hospitalized and hospitalized, this is often a very, very difficult situation. The staff, the doctors, the nurses, the sisters are trying to do their best, but it still remains a difficult situation: a difficult situation for parents, but also for the child. And the financial burden is still coming. This cost contribution is directly transferred to the respective national health funds – Mr. Schönegger, you know that too – for the financing of hospitals. The Supreme Commandment – and this was also mentioned by Mr Muchitsch – must ensure that an agreement between the federal government and countries is reached during the financial compensatory negotiations in order to eliminate the burden on the family, above all in financial terms. The current situation is not satisfactory. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e29509	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I agree with the proposal 1008/A to the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. [[23:24:00]] 29. Point First reading: Request by Dr. Eva Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the Austrian Radio Law (ORF-Law, ORF-G) (991/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e29548	We'll get to the 29th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mr Brosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e29576	Madam President. High house! Speaking of Anachronism: We'll come to the ORF law right now. The next provision that could be abolished: The application provides for the abolition of the right of consultation of national directors in the ORF when appointing national directors. So far, it is true that there is an independent public-law broadcasting company in Austria, but if the ORF director has to order a national director, he has to first go to the head of state and ask if this is right. I imagine this so that Mr. Wrabetz at Küniglberg is in the service car, driving to St. Pölten, going to the head of state and saying: I would have a proposal for a national director to see that the ORF law – objectivity, independence – is largely respected. – The head of state says: Great, that's what we want! Is that sure it's not just me? – On that the Wrabetz says: Yes! - Then he drives home, and it's clear. Since this story may not be entirely in line with reality, it would be time for one to get rid of this anachronism in 2015 and make a law that will give public-law broadcasting real independence and will no longer allow national leaders to participate in the appointment of national directors.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e29606	The next item is the report by Mr Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e29627	You could also discuss it the other way around. You could say, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Let us put the national conference into the Constitution! Those who know the Austrian Constitution know exactly when the national conference meets – they have an agenda there – then you can ask the question: Is she a parallel government? Does it exist parallel to the social partners? What is she parallel to? – The fact is, there are. It does not exist in the formal constitution, it exists in the real constitution. Today it is already too late, but you can take the time to conduct this fundamental debate of the balance between the federal government and countries and of who actually and regularly performs which tasks. When we discuss the administrative reform, it is also happening, and with many other legislative instruments that we have to decide here. That would be the almost more interesting debate. Oh, my God, the ORF is successful! I don't understand, dear Dieter Brosz, you usually have a lot more time there, you come out here and tell me what the ORF brings together: The song contest has just been set up, Oscar awards. He writes black numbers, has the highest rates in Europe. It works! So I don't understand what you'd criticize. Now the final question is: Isn't it better, it's formally described before a statement comes from a head of state? But this current management and the current journalists working in the ORF are based on the criteria of objectivity and independence as never before. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with representatives of the FPÖ.]] That's what you should find out. The times when this was different are at least over. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Stefan: Spirit hour!]] But if you think you should focus more on what the Green Basic Assembly decides or – What was this call for? - Oh, that's it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fekter.]] The former Minister of Finance should perhaps hold a private vote here on cooperation between the countries. That might be very interesting. – You laugh very knowing, and I know why. [[in the direction of the Abg. Frameset]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e29685	Next item is the report by Mrs Dr Karl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e29706	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I think that this proposal is quite simply covered. [[Abg. Brosz: I can imagine that!]] Applicants shall require that the right of opinion of the countries be deleted before the appointment of the ORF national directors. Firstly, we must insist that it is only a right of opinion and not a right of co-determination. This makes a huge difference. On the other hand, I am not convinced by the reasoning either. They argue here that hearing law in political practice leads to the fact that the fulfilment of the wishes of the heads of state is accompanied by the election of the ORF Directorate. Neither does the right of opinion indicate such a junkimation, nor does the abolition of the right of opinion mean that this junkimation, if any, can no longer take place. That is why I really do not think that this proposal is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e29743	Next, Mr Magistrate. Schrangl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e29764	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! There has now been a lot of talk about the real constitution and what really stands in it. I do not think that this request would change something. I mean, it's nice when you say we want to depoliticize the ORF, but I don't think anything will change in the final effect. Nor will this request solve the problems of the ORF. We will not change it, for example, that some opposition parties get away there worse than the government. This is not going to solve this either. And neither will this request change the fact that the heads of state will participate in the real constitution. I don't know what's so bad about it now, because politicians at the country level are the elected representatives of the forced payers. Perhaps an influence on the order also strengthens regionality. You have to prove first that the Küniglberg can actually carry out the order more objectively or simply better. But, I think, one should be willing to consider putting this hearing right at a broader level, not just to give it to the head of state. In any case, it remains a lot for a discussion, as I mean, and I look forward to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e29798	Next, Mr Magistrate. Alm in word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e29819	Madam President. High house! Dear Seer to ORF III! Yes, the right of hearing in the appointment of the ORF country directors by the national leaders is indeed an anachronism. You don't get beyond saying that. It is a point where direct political influence on a public-law medium is established in a law. That is why I cannot understand at all, Mr Cap, how you can only do this in a polemic way. This is an essential point where we should actually talk about whether this is still true in time, whether it is at all right, that an independent transmitter, which is intended to produce public-law content for us, can be influenced in this way. This, of course, shows the attitude, this shows your attitude, this shows the attitude of the ÖVP and, of course, the attitude of the FPÖ, according to which media policy defines itself solely on how to ensure the influence in this public-law medium, whether it be the public council or the board of foundations or the so-called groups of friends of the Foundation Council. This is not the kind of modern, politically independent media house we have in mind. The proposal is, of course, only a small part to depoliticize the ORF. A genuinely wide-ranging depoliticisation would include a body reform as it does For example, the Editors' Council itself proposes how it is proposed by the Greens, as we have proposed, where the Foundation Council is reduced to the size of a Supervisory Board of an AG, which of course is not occupied by parties, as it is now. As has been said, the application makes a small contribution to depoliticisation. If this instrument is not used properly anyway, why don't we get rid of it? Why do we have something in law that we don't need? The question is: How does a hearing by the head of state actually end? Is this the first editorial conference, where the head of state TV will be discussed for the first time, which will follow, or how do you imagine that? It somehow reminds us of the Federal Government's right of hearing in the appointment of Catholic bishops. That's about the same anachronism. The independence of the ORF and the independence of a public-law media house as part of the media landscape, which is to perform its task as the fourth pillar of democracy, are essential, also for the ORF. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e29861	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I accept the motion for a resolution 991/A to the Constitutional Committee. [[23:33:49]] 30. Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Judith Schwentner, colleagues on a Federal Constitutional Act amending the Federal Constitutional Act (1007/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e29901	We arrive at the 30th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Schwentner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e29928	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been a subject in the discussion with the President of the Court of Auditors, namely the minimum security and the result of the 15a agreement, as we have and how it is implemented in the countries, namely a flicking plant, which does not ensure that people who are in a difficult situation, in a difficult situation, have the same performance and the same claims, regardless of their postal code. It has also been stressed several times that we are striving to harmonise the fact that we want people in Austria – whether living in the West or the East – to be equal when they are in this situation and dependent on minimum security. That is why we are making this proposal. Although the Constitution states that poverty prevention is defined. But it was chosen precisely this cumbersome and little fair path of the 15a agreement. We mean – and not only we mean it, I mentioned it already, but also the public prosecutor thinks similar to what he experiences with the shortcomings in the implementation of the minimum guarantee – that a framework law is needed. The framework law in the Constitution, as it is now present, speaks It's still from the poor. We propose that this be renamed measures to overcome and prevent poverty and social exclusion. If it is defined in the Constitution as a framework law, it would ensure that there is equal implementation across the country, or that the rules for it are specified. I would therefore ask you to support or at least support this debate on a very important financial compensation decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e29967	Next item is the report by Mr Wittmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e29989	Madam President. High house! I can get a lot off the concerns of my previous speakers. We should, at all, reorganise and modernise Article 12 of the Federal Constitution, competence in principle legislation, and Article 11, and not just this part. But the implementation of the requirement-oriented minimum guarantee was only possible over 15a contracts. We are faced with the alternative, either we do it this way or we do not do it because otherwise we would not have done it because it also presented a burden on the countries. Of course, it is unsatisfactory if each country has its own rules. But sometimes the art of politics is also the art of the feasible, and that was only so feasible. It is not a very satisfactory solution, but it is a way to provide assistance. The fact that it would of course be better if this were to be guaranteed in a uniform form throughout the state is, of course, not to be disputed and to support. We should also really do something about modernising the situation. Nevertheless, in the event of a burden on the countries, the agreement of the countries is, of course, a condition for this to be implemented successfully. And that was only possible in this case with an article-15a agreement. But, of course, we should also think seriously about modernising the situation.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e30016	Next speaker: Mr Hofinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e30037	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Two clarifications on Mr Schwentner's request. To bring about the poor of a new definition is, as I believe, nothing to stop. We see a problem in the resurgence of this Federal Constitutional Act, because we believe that it can lead to double liquefaction and that political and financial responsibility is then pushed back and forth again and again. We see responsibility in this case better positioned in the 15a agreement and can, of course, discuss it in the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e30062	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. I agree with the proposal 1007/A to the Constitutional Committee. The agenda is exhausted. [[23:38:57]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2015-04-22-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00068_d8e30097	I am still announcing that self-employed applications 1054/A(E) to 1095/A(E) have been tabled at today's meeting. Questions 4564/J to 4663/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 23.40 a.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
