ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-04-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e4124	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Dear Members of the Federal Government! The 72. The meeting of the National Council is open. The official protocols of 68 and 69. Meeting of 22. ==References====External links== Meeting of 23. In April 2015, the Parliament's management remained inconvenient and undisputed. For today's meeting as prevented, MEPs are reported Kirchgatterer, Königsberger-Ludwig, Pendl, Grillitsch, Kopf, Schittenhelm, Schönegger, Tegenle, Winzig, Haider, Hafenecker, Jannach, Kassecker, Steger, Themessl, Zinger, Jarmer, Moser, Mückstein, Musiol, Zinggl, Franz, Hagen, Lintl, Nachbauerr, Vetter, Hable and Loacker. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-04-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e4155	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following statement: The Federal Minister for Europe, Integration and External Affairs Sebastian Kurz is represented by the Federal Minister for Science, Research and Economy Vice-chanzer Dr. Reinhold Mitterlehner. [[15:04:12]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-04-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e4191	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-04-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e4325	I announce that this meeting will be held in full time by ORF III. Let's go into the agenda. [[15:04:35]] EU Declaration by the Federal Chancellor according to § 74b para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council for the purpose of discussing the results of the extraordinary meeting of the European Council of 23. April 2015
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-04-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e4355	This declaration shall not exceed 25 minutes. A debate will then be held in accordance with Rule 74b of the Rules of Procedure. Actual corrections will not be invoked until the end of the debate. I now give the floor to Mr Faymann for the statement. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-04-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e4384	Madam President, Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! It is a good and sensible tradition to make statements after a meeting of the European Council or after a meeting of the European Heads of Government, which are prepared to discuss a little further. I don't think I need to have a long introduction to the fact that the Mediterranean has become the most dangerous border – a huge grave for many people who are trying to reach Europe. Many of them are on the run from war, many are on the run from the unbearable conditions in their countries, many do not even have the most need to live, but they have the hope – sometimes also promoted by business makers like tugs – of a better life. If such shocking events happen and reports of these events come to us, we must of course ask ourselves the question of how to install a short-term measure, namely an emergency aid, which is also capable of saving life as far as possible to all the people in distress of the sea. I know that a maritime emergency aid isn't a program for a better world, but it saves many people's lives. Therefore, at the European Council meeting with the Heads of Government, it was undisputed that it was necessary to strengthen this maritime emergency aid. It is not yet the end of the programme, but I am convinced that we will use even more than the triples. Some countries with suitable materials – such as aircraft or other technical supplies – have also already announced, regardless of the threefold increase in maritime emergency aid, in which areas they can imagine additional benefits. So, as we know exactly what is needed for a mountain rescue, coastal countries know what is necessary for maritime emergency aid. But one has to say here that the Mare Nostrum programme, which has always been quoted again and again, the Italian maritime rescue programme, does not work completely and UNHCR has complained of thousands of victims during this time, perhaps even in the dark. Nevertheless, it turns out that the control of borders alone is not enough to help people who are in need because their boat has not managed to cross. There is a need for special help with a greater radius, with more material use, even with more use of persons who are able to carry out this task skillfully. It seems to me to be the human-political natural to let this help go so far as to say in the respective reports that nothing in life is perfect, but we are approaching and even exploiting technical possibilities to carry out the corresponding rescues with our modern technologies, which ensure the surveillance of spaces such as the Mediterranean. The last weekend has again shown that the refugee flows do not stop and that unfortunately we do not have to worry that we are facing a huge maritime emergency program with thousands of helpers and do not need it. It would be a nice day if we didn't need this help anymore. But the opposite is the case. I'm afraid we'll still need a lot of use in the future. I therefore come to the second question, which in the long term ensures neither world peace nor sufficient food and quality of life for all, because only the would be a sustainable and exclusively long-term scheme. This point too can only be a short- and medium-term measure in the emergency. It is about how we are dealing with asylum seekers in Europe, with people who are on the run. I am not speaking here of people who want to improve economically – these people exist like anywhere in the world in Europe – but of people who are on the run because they cannot live in their countries because many of them are threatened by violence and therefore also have the right to human rights to asylum. Asylum is not a grace, it is a human right. [[Congratulation with SPÖ and ÖVP as well as the Abg. Willi.]] It is therefore a right which must also be granted by us, but the opportunity to use this right exists for these people only if we have a corresponding organization. Now there is the Dublin Decision, which, as you know, says briefly that the country is responsible for a refugee in which he arrives. This would quickly end the matter for a country such as Austria, which has no access to the sea, because someone could fly to us by plane, but otherwise would not come to us, for example from the Mediterranean area, because we are not directly neighbours. That is why, as the Dublin procedure provides, it is politically logical that the country in which someone comes has to consider whether there is an asylum right, and also for the first accommodation and then subsequently for further humanitarian assistance – but this system can only work if the country in which someone arrives knows also because of a quota scheme – and thus is also the same as the Austrian proposal – as can then be placed in Europe by the people who have a right to asylum. It is not a question of them simply continuing by train, which is also not foreseen in the Dublin rule. However, in the absence of a meaningful quota indicating how accommodation in Europe has to be done – i.e. a common policy in Europe for standards, rights and accommodation of asylum seekers – practice is in many cases different from the theory, because thousands, thousands, hundreds of thousands, hundreds of people are simply continuing and there is no orderly accommodation. Therefore, countries are affected differently by asylum seekers. We Austrians are – of course, measured by our population, but we can also measure it by GDP, by economic power or by another factor – a very particularly affected country. One can simply say that ten countries in Europe have a large part of the task of holding eight countries in the lower middle and ten countries have a relatively small share in the common task of housing asylum seekers. That is why the quota is a question of fairness, a question of humanity and, ultimately, of logic in connection with the Dublin Decision, since some countries cannot afford it at all. That is why we Austrians are committed to these European quotas. The debate has now become more intense than it has been in recent months or even years, because in the past those who have not been so deeply affected have not spoken out, as there may have been other issues in the European Community which seemed more urgent to them. That is why the question of quotas has so far been too little debated and has now been put to the fore by the intensification, of course, of the launch of the joint rescue programmes. That's good and right. For our position – we are in favour of a quota system and minimum standards – this is also a real and politically good discussion, in which I am, and, as I know, you are also, in which we are, therefore, fully involved at all levels. As an example, I would like to bring a discussion from the European Council, where it was discussed to start pilot projects. Pilot projects are good, there are pilot projects in which you have the opportunity to learn to convert them into general regulations. But quotas, which are limited from the outset with a few thousand, will not solve the problem. Quota regulation means that a common task, measured by certain factors – population, economic power, other factors – is also to be addressed. This is not a Community law at present. That is why it is not the case, for example, in the debate on Hankley Point, where we can say how much one can subsidize. . We believe that Community law has been violated on this issue, and the action before it is put forward. – In the discussion on quota schemes for asylum seekers, not Community law has been addressed, but human rights and a task of 28 national states. It is all the more difficult, of course, to get an agreement to introduce this quota. From my point of view, there is no way past that, and all political efforts are correct. All support – including from Jean-Claude Juncker, also the German discussion, which goes further in this direction – is a support for our right Austrian position. I could now tell you a lot more about the fight against crime, which was of course also addressed, how we bring the police forces and the police together stronger and more intensively through cooperation and cooperation, that not even a few deserve this distress and misery and take away the last. This too is a professionally conductable task. The most difficult task, from my point of view, is that if we do not help Africa with a population of more than a billion people – significantly more rising than other continents – only through the issue of asylum and refugees, we will not be able to make a sustainable contribution. Without this commitment and without this right to asylum, it will not be possible, but only this right will not be sufficient to ensure peace on a continent. Nobody has a patent recipe. We have agreed to convene a joint meeting with African government leaders and will deal with this as a European Union in Malta. This is, of course, a point for which we have not yet reached a proper solution in Austria, namely the gradual increase in the funds intended for development cooperation in order to provide the necessary financial resources for this cooperation. As a government, we will increase the means in this respect, we have said that. The Minister of State for Foreign Affairs has been abroad for several days, but this will not prevent us from calling on the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Finance – supported by Mr Vice-Chancellor, who shares this procedure – to present a stage plan which we of course can and must discuss in Parliament – as we, despite the financial framework which does not provide for these increases, on the one hand, through re-transmissions, on the other, by additional means fulfil this obligation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I know that many say: We are so burdened with regard to asylum seekers, why do we not expect that? I don't want to play this against each other. It is not a question of playing a more offensive policy in development cooperation, a more offensive policy in cooperation with countries that are in a positive frame-up. There are certainly dictatorships and corrupt governments that are in no way committed as partners for joint development cooperation. serve the people who live there. But there are also positive approaches – and they are to be extended. I would like to address the issue of development cooperation, the salvation of people – so that they do not lose their lives in the Mediterranean – and the question of a fair division of asylum seekers do not play against each other. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I would also like to see the debate in Austria – in one of the richest regions in the world – held in such a way that humanity is at the forefront, and that all these tasks are being fulfilled together. I would therefore like to thank all those who are constructively involved in this discussion.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-04-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e4505	We are now going into the debate. I would point out that according to § 74b para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure no speaker/no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes, with each club having an overall speaking time of 25 minutes. Mr Klubobmann was the first to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-04-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e4533	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! First of all, Mr Bundeskanzler, personally all the good for your birthday today! [[General condolences.]] With regard to all the differences we have in the political content debate, it is good, as I believe, that one nevertheless deals respectfully with one another – and therefore, Federal Chancellor, I wish you personally a good day after this special session; hopefully still spend nice hours with your family! It is, of course, as you rightly said today, a terrible human tragedy which is currently happening in the Mediterranean, where people with ships, with tow straps, break up towards Europe, which in part have spent more than $5,000 per head on tow belts, on organized crime, and then on these ships towards Europe, where these tow bands even have a leak of the ships themselves and bring them down. Yes, such tragedies are currently taking place in the Mediterranean. It is therefore, of course, the task of countering this, not a question, but one cannot answer it with an open, unlimited and unconditional immigration policy and say: Dear friends, try it on this dangerous path, risk your life, and if you make it, you have a chance to stay here! – This is certainly the wrong way. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is precisely this scenario which is currently taking place in this tragedy that is being supported by the European Union. I say you should look at the example of Australia. In Australia there have also been these dramatic examples where people with ships have left for Australia, where such disasters have also taken place, but in Australia the political parties, the government has also said very clearly: Please don't try it, you don't have a chance if you want to come to us on this way! In Australia it was then done exactly what is important, namely to ensure assistance, rescue and security by ships, to intercept these endangered ships, to put people in safety, but also to safely return to where they have left off, so ultimately this return was also ensured. We will not be able to cope with the international flows of refugees in Europe. A meaningful master plan for the escape regions of Africa is therefore long overdue. The problems of various continents must, of course, be solved on the continents themselves. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is exactly what the international policy approach should be: A kind of Marshall plan, an economic reconstruction programme support for certain refugee regions in Africa is certainly necessary and also worthy of discussion. This must, of course, be project-oriented, because everything that has so far been done in the form of financial aid must be questioned if it has flown into dark canals, in military equipment et cetera. You also have to ask yourself: How does it make sense to help and invest project-oriented when bombs from the USA, France and others are pushed down to these countries and these countries are partially bombed back into the Stone Age? This must also be questioned critically, as well as the fact that these countries often withdraw from their responsibilities when it comes to ensuring reconstruction on the spot or absorbing the currents of refugees that have just been created. – These are all things you need to critically question. As far as Africa is concerned, for example, with international aid – we liberals have proposed this for a long time – but at least once from the European Union, it should be taken up to ensure that international aid with appropriate refugee campaigns in Africa itself, allowing humanitarian support facilities to be provided there. European and American assistance could ultimately move this; one could, of course, ensure protection by the UN for the people concerned on the spot. However, there should be a will to do so. And that is what we have been calling for for for years, so that developments such as the current but also developments as in Lampedusa et cetera can be prevented. It is precisely the Americans that must not be released from duty. On-site reception camps would have to be protected militaryly. – That would, of course, be a UN task. Similarly, rich countries in these or neighbouring regions, such as the Arab region, should not be left out of their obligation. In this context, I call only Qatar, the United Arab Emirates or Saudi Arabia. There is no reason why these countries should not take in and help threatened Muslim refugees. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The fact that this threat is the case is reality; therefore, one must also remind. In any case, the objective of European policy must be to: Rescue the really persecuted on site, not migration from economic motivation! The essence of the idea of asylum is protection, and if the UN provides humanitarian infrastructure for the really persecuted in the crisis zones, in cooperation with the neighbouring countries there, with the regional powers – if it must be, also with the West – then once a major goal would be achieved. In principle, the following should be noted anyway: If a person is threatened with body and life after UN definition and therefore has to flee his home country because of the very fact that life and body are threatened, then of course it is the priority goal to escape this threat and to provide help. It's probably out of the question. This can already be made possible in the neighbouring province, the neighbouring country, the region or even in safe countries on the continent itself. That's why I'm emphasizing: This is not the sole responsibility of Europe, because Europe is not responsible for the condition in some African continent countries. We in Austria do not have any responsibility for these developments, so we should call the really responsible ones by name. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Our modern asylum law is, as it were, also a product of the Second World War, created for individuals who were specifically persecuted, even in the 20th century. ==References====External links==* Official website For the time being, in the case at that time, this was a good and right system, but at that time it was thought differently than it is partly interpreted today, not as an import lock for economic refugees, not for masses of people trying to break into other regions for economic reasons. But this is often the case today. Of course, criminal towbands must be removed from the feeding ground; they deserve a fortune with these “businesses! ” I mentioned it before: 5 000 US dollars are minimum amounts spent per refugee; an amount with which, of course, one could build up a corresponding existence – especially in Africa – if one could live safely on the spot. There are terrible things that come about through this tow mafia – and we must therefore take these into a targeted vision. Of course, it would be necessary for the European Union to ultimately ensure ships on site, catch such ships and put people in safety, but then bring them back to these refugee camps to be built on the spot and to ensure the care and security of these refugee camps. This is one of the basic prerequisites for not sending out the signal, it tries on this dangerous path and finally it can happen such tragic developments that we are experiencing today. And of course, as you have said, we also need to talk about setting a reasonable ceiling on asylum: How many asylum seekers can Austria even record? What capacities do we have? We have already fulfilled extreme capacities, and we are not the ones that trigger the crises in this world. If Americans, French and others, after draining their bomb quotas and making mega-profits in the field of arms and oil trade, then stand out from the humanitarian responsibility and reconstruction in the region, then this is not correct and an intolerable state. It is therefore necessary that we address and also demand this responsible role. On the subject of quotas and quotas: Yes, a quota is necessary! But it can't be open up, Federal Chancellor, I somehow heard that from you. It must be clear that there are certain limits of burden which cannot be exceeded, and I would have liked to have discussed and defined them. Let me comment very briefly on the issue of employment permits for asylum seekers, since there are also currently SPÖ and ÖVP with the support of the Green Efforts to open the labour market for asylum seekers; in the area of asylum seekers, there is also a number of amendments. This is even implemented by teaching institutions. If you really do that, it's another development that's not good. This is ultimately an intrusion for unbridled immigration into the Austrian labour market and social systems. This is ultimately legitimate asylum abuse, because asylum procedures serve to clarify whether or not a person actually has the right to asylum – and they do not serve to release all possibilities in society in advance of obedience and to require integration as an automaticism. To allow asylum seekers to work in Bausch and Bowen from the beginning would again stimulate economic refugees. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And of course you have to see what happened in the years since 1999. 336 882 asylum seekers have come to Austria, 80 percent have been legally rejected by Austrian courts. So please keep in mind again and again that there has been a great abuse that has not been encountered accordingly. That is exactly what we should turn off for the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-04-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e4738	The next item is Mr Klubobmann Mag. Arbitrator. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-04-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e4759	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Almost daily – but always on weekends – we reach terrible, inconceivable news. Just this weekend it was again 5,800 people who had to be saved, who could fortunately be saved. However, there are terrible news about a humanitarian disaster that is happening in front of our eyes when 5,800 people are fished alone on a weekend from the Mediterranean – in the truest sense of the word. Nor can it be assumed that this is a short-term appearance due to a crisis, but the civil war scenarios that are taking place throughout the African and Arab subcontinents, and the environmental situation – floods, droughts, crop failures, as well as earthquakes as in Nepal – unfortunately also show a growing problem for the future years and decades. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brunner.]] The united Europe must not only stand out by the fact that it is trying to act unitedly as an economic area, but also by the fact that there is a closed and common action in response to these terrible events. The first and most important thing in this context is to save lives, and I am therefore glad that the European Council has increased monthly expenditure on saving human life in the Mediterranean from €3 million to €9 million and has also greatly increased technical capacity through ships, helicopters and the like. But we also know that all these are short-term figures and we may be confronted with the fact that even these €9 million per month do not guarantee the financing of the necessary. However, it is also necessary to establish within the European Union a fair refugee rate ensuring that refugees are divided into countries according to their economic strength and population key. Austria is just number three behind Sweden and Hungary, and it turns out that many other countries in the European Union do not meet their commitments to the fair extent that would correspond to their economic and population size. It was terrifying – and I hope that this week will end – as British Prime Minister Cameron said on this issue, which has prevented a fair division within the European Union, because he does not want to accept anyone in England from his conservative point of view. However, I also believe that the legal framework in which we are located, namely the Dublin Agreement, is most likely one that we need to reform sometime in order to achieve better mechanisms. We should also be open to the discussion, which has also begun by Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker in the various press releases on the summit, namely a sensible system of legal access for refugees. It makes sense, perhaps, to make a point of contact within the African continent available to people seeking asylum. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] At the same time – and this might be associated with it – it is true that the towing-unbeing is an expression of modern slavery in the 21st century. Century – to lay the craftsmanship and fight it when personal enrichments take place on the miserable fate of individual people. We also have a few tasks in the long term, and even if they are long-term, they should now be named: This is the development of peacekeeping missions, the development of European missions that help stabilise. However, this means talking about sustainability, climate change and all of these events in the second step. I also believe that the European Commission, the European Union must develop its own Africa strategy. We do not need a strategy that only takes place at one point, but that is a comprehensive one: in the humanitarian perspective, in peacekeeping missions, peacekeeping and peace-enforcement, at the economic development level, as well as in the development and strengthening of political-democratic structures. It would also be an opportunity for Europe to develop a common European strategy, instead of the fact that individual Member States in the European Union are always trying to work out their own strategies out of their history, which are then very often misused or understood as colonial or post-colonial. We also need to discuss the EZA funds we provide in Austria, because the development of recent years that we have even fallen below 0.3 percent in spite of repeated debt payments of EUR 20 million is a state that is unacceptable. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: There are resolutions on this in Parliament! Several!]] That is why I am glad to see those responsible in the Federal Government, namely the Foreign Minister and the Minister of Finance, working on how we can develop a stage plan in the EZA funds in the other direction, not down, but up. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is making bilateral development cooperation in projects in priority countries, and the financial sector is also financing multilateral development cooperation through IDA and the World Bank programmes, in which we can do a great deal of good and right. When we see how many thousand refugees from Syria we have already received and acknowledged, we must also deal with how we deal with them here in the country. The provision of language courses and training options is an urgent task to be undertaken from the perspective of integration and from the point of view of integration. We can now take, by means of non-financing – because we just don't want to see it – not seeing eyes that we are entering a future social gap. There is also a call for the integration body and the Minister of Integration to answer this question correctly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Finally, I would like to say: This tragedy will also prove to the European Union whether it is able to provide a humanitarian response to this humanitarian disaster as a community of 28 economically strong states, in reality the strongest economic block in the world. That will be the task. I am glad that Austria has always moved on the side of good and right in these European councils, because that is not only an important point from the point of view of Austria, but also of humanity as a whole.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-04-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e4838	The next item is Mrs. Club Chairman Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-04-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e4859	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen. So I think we were all very much, very relieved than yesterday, about the international news agencies that reported that 4 200 lives could be saved – unlike two weeks before when we were confronted with the fact that over 800 people drowned in the Mediterranean. Since the disaster at Lampedusa in 2013, we all know that this issue and these tragedies must continue to concern us. It is all the more bitter that it has needed this disaster with the 800 drowned, so that the European Heads of State and Government can sit together and have once started to discuss a solution – and we are still very far away from a solution. [[Congratulations on the Greens and Members of the NEOS.]] One thing I agree with many – I believe – is the bitterness of this catastrophe, that it was so predictable and despite the many warnings of NGOs – I am grateful in this context for the work of the Caritas, the Diacony, the Red Cross and the People's Aid, which have repeatedly pointed out that politics is called for action here, and we will be measured by what solutions we will find to this question. Now it is time to find the solutions now, and they can't look like that – Mr. Klubobmann Strache, I'm starting with your proposal for a solution – to do that like Australia, like the Australian refugee policy and asylum policy. “Stop the boats,” it says. Since the turn of the government in 2013, the Navy has had the task of forcing all refugee boats to return, and people come to reception camps on the island states of Nauru and Papua New Guinea. Even those who are recognized as refugees are imprisoned in international – de facto – detention camps. Do you know what's going on in these camps? – These camps have also been visited by international human rights commissions. What you find there is almost inhuman! [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] – Listening Now let's take you a short while! Listen to this and confront yourself with what is going on there! Between January 2013 and March 2014, this Human Rights Commission documented 233 cases of violent attacks against children, 33 cases of sexual violence. Women and children, in particular, are always threatened with violence in these detention camps. It is here spoken of shameless violations of the International Convention on Refugees. – This is certainly not the model for a European refugee policy, certainly not! [[Congratulations on the Greens and Members of the NEOS.]] They have given the following consideration to the Austrian asylum and refugee policy: If the refugees do not work and are in basic care, they are asylum abusers, but if they work, they are social abusers. – So no one can be so hard on you at all that he does not abuse anything in the Austrian system. And I think – so much logic can at least be applied – that one of them is simply untrue and you also have to decide what true refugee policy you really want to recognise. [[Congratulations on the Greens and Members of the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Street: 80 percent have been legally rejected!]] Mr Bundeskanzler, I still have to ask you if this has been all that the Heads of State and Government have actually done in terms of solutions. I'll get together again. They have agreed to equip the border protection security – that is the Triton action – with more resources. The Triton Border Protection Action – I brought it to you once again; [[the speaker shows a map]] They probably also know the exact mandate of this border security – 30 nautical miles from the mainland and have the task of securing the borders, and not of saving human lives. Mare Nostrum, the action of the Italian Coast Guard, goes very far, and precisely in these areas these tragedies take place. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mölzer.]] I do not want more human life to be lamented because we are protecting our European coasts and not going out to the Libyan waters to save the people where they are in distress and in need of death. And that is why we do not have enough of this outcome of the summit. We want Mare Nostrum as a safeguard action and not as a border control action. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Thanks be to God from one of those who came from Great Britain: We're sending the navals, but we can't let anyone set foot on the land with us! These are the military considerations to actually deal with warships against refugee boats. The European Union must also have a serious debate on the causes of these refugee disasters. There, of course, we have war, violence and expulsion on the one hand. You can't be so heartless that you say: The people who have just managed to flee from the IS gangs in Syria should not have a legal opportunity to apply for asylum in Austria. This cannot be your serious, because there is no legal way to enter Austria or the European Union. This cannot be the answer of Europe and the European states to such warring, brutal war conflicts. But that's it right now. If a family has managed from there, she may go the dangerous path and then try it over Libya. It can't have been! There are other reasons, however, and they are being discussed far too little, it is above all also European trade policy. The countries which are politically stable and have real livelihoods for fishermen who have small farmers who can live there are systematically deprived of these livelihoods by unfair trade relations. There are dozens of examples. Last year there was a big discussion about Senegal. Senegal is a politically stable country with nearly a million fishermen. The European Union has now secured the wealth of these coastal waters for the ridiculous amount of € 15 million de facto for the entire tuna stock. For 15 million €, divided into five years! And that's really a misuse of power. These are facts. Learn about these really unfair trade relationships! [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: You are the EU-Hearers!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, if your concept is'stop the boats' and people come to detention camps, you are not a satisfactionable discussion partner for me in this debate as far as the European Union is concerned. I'm really sorry. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Street: I find Australia very serious! This is an important member of the international community!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] A little more serious debate would be appropriate here. Of course, war conflicts – the war – are one of the main reasons, but economic relations, in particular the European Union, are a reason – especially agricultural policy, which is obvious. I would like us to do something like an impact check on all these contracts, whether the basis of life – especially on the African continent – is destroyed or supported. And there we are not yet in development cooperation. In this context, on the weekend – and I say it very clearly – I have not been as angry as in this discussion for a long time. Unfortunately, the Foreign Minister is not here now, but he is standing down and saying, after years of development cooperation to a embarrassing level, that he has been reduced to a historical low: Please, where are the SPÖ resorts, they should co-finance?! That's where I wonder: [[Abg. Kogler: A shame!]] Is there a cheaper point than to show a party political hack in a federal government? So I was unwitting! [[I should like to congratulate the Greens and SPÖ and NEOS representatives.]] The NGOs have to stand in front of the Federal Chancellery and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for days – from the Cardinal – to point out that in this area Austria is one of the countries with the most shamefully low contributions – and we are still expecting economic relations that have not lost anything in the development cooperation. I would like to make that clear once again, so as not to misunderstanding journalists. There is a coordination responsibility of the Foreign Minister, and it is his responsibility to work with the Minister of Finance on this stage plan. This has been in the Government Convention since 2014. It would have been a long time, and it is bitter that one needs such a disaster to talk about development cooperation once again constructively. It is not, in fact, the main issue, particularly trade relations, and it is about a different and fairer right of asylum throughout Europe. Have on the point You are right: The responsibility for these people is common responsibility. Austria takes up asylum seekers, Austria grants asylum status. There are countries in Europe who do not do this or do it only very limited; this is certainly a subject, but we do not forget who is the main burden. Let us look at countries such as Jordan, countries such as Lebanon, which have over one million refugees at a size of Upper Austria. [[Call at the FPÖ: There are not these social benefits!]] And if you're talking about reception centres in the African countries: There are very, very large camps in Africa where half a million people are accommodated. There are also people who already have recognised asylum status, only Europe does not take them. So this whole hypocritical speech. [[Abg. Kickl: Attention! Hindiful!]] [[Further calls to the FPÖ]] We then take which, if the UNHCR – I carry it out, I justify it! – has set asylum status! – Europe has not even been able to agree on the reception of 5,000 resettlement refugees – these are the weakest of the weak, these are Vulnerable persons, people who can never escape by themselves. The 28 EU countries were not even able to agree to allow 5,000 people to enter Europe and to relocate. Every year the UNHCR reports 80,000 to 90 000 people who are particularly weak and particularly sensitive – these are the sick, those are children, those are especially old people – who cannot escape from refugee camps themselves, cannot put themselves in a boat that needs our support. Even they will not be included in Europe. I'm wondering, Where are our values? Pope Francis asked: Who is responsible for the death of my brothers and sisters? – It is not my Pope, I am not Catholic, he is not our all Pope, but it is our brothers and sisters.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-04-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e5045	The next item is the speech by Mr Amon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-04-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e5067	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! The starting point could not be more dramatic. We had 626 000 asylum applications within the European Union in 2014. This means an increase of 44 percent compared to the previous year, with 435,000 applications in 2013. Austria is one of the ten countries in which most applications have been made and more than 28 000 have been made. Although this is still around 10 000 less than in 2002, it is still quite a lot, and we are in absolute fact in the seventh place of all the Member States of the European Union. In relation to the population, we are third in the European Union. It has already been mentioned why Islamic states, which are said to be the cause of many crises, do not take up refugees here more strongly. – It is already very clear that more than 4 million refugees have been admitted to the neighbouring states of Syria: 1.8 million in Turkey, 1.2 million in Lebanon, 0.6 million in Jordan, 0.2 million in Iraq and 0.1 million in Egypt. In 2014, 3,500 people lost their lives in crossing the Mediterranean, and hourly it becomes more. There Europe cannot close its eyes and pretend that nothing can be done. However, it is also crucial that the issue of rescue from the sea is not equated with automatic immigration into the European Union. This equation is wrong. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] It is a humanitarian command to save people from the sea, but the European Union is also a rule of law. It naturally has to respect human rights, but it must therefore also deal with proper procedures. In fact, of course, the Dublin procedure has come into being, and we must say that quite openly. As the European Union, we cannot leave those states which are the first host states – and all too often we also seem to be in the situation, something like a first-time host state – with this problem and with this challenge alone. In order to address this problem, the Ministers of the Interior – our Minister of the Interior is together today and tomorrow with 20 colleagues who she is visiting in St. Pölten – have not been here today – and the Foreign Ministers, about 14 days ago, adopted a ten-point programme within the Council, which has many specific points on the subject. I'm allowed to sum up: On the one hand, it is about strengthening rescue measures. In this context, the Federal Chancellor has pointed out the threefold of the financial resources, and there is a clear commitment by many Heads of Government to increase these funds if it is necessary to prevent further disasters in humanitarian terms. It was also a question of clarifying the Frontex mandate, namely the question of moving the borders further to the Libyan border, in order to more closely counter to the tow. The mistake would be if, as I said earlier, the rescue from the marine distress was equal to the immigration into the European Union, then half the business of the tractors would be done. This can certainly not be in our best interests. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is therefore also about preventing irregular migration through the creation of protection and reception capacity in the region. I am not of the opinion of Mr Strache that you must do it the way the Australians do. However, I represent the idea that is now shared by many in the European Union, namely to create contact points in North Africa, which are to be set up by UNHCR with strong support from the European Union, in order to lay the craftsmanship and to oppose them in a massive way, which they can promise and, of course, cannot keep. The National Council did indeed, on 22 February. In a resolution on April 2015, it expressed its support for the 10-point programme adopted by the European Council. The most important goal must be the salvation of the people from the sea. But if we focus on the salvation of the people of the Mediterranean, we cannot make ourselves the compliments of the tractors. This means that if, in previously apostrophic contact points, there is a sort of first procedure, a finding procedure, whether there is an prospect of being recognized as a refugee, of course, there is also a need for a European quota for the distribution of refugees. I have already said that Austria is among the ten countries facing most asylum applications. 90 percent of all refugees are admitted by these ten countries. [[Abg. Stache: The colleague Cap said the boat is full!]] That is why, Mr Strache, there is no place at all for nationalism in this context, because the problem of solving these problems is the nation states, not the European Union, not the Commission, not Parliament, they are the nation states. We need more Europe and no less Europe here, Mr Strache. [[It was in favour of the ÖVP, as well as of representatives of SPÖ and NEOS.]] And that is why full support for the proposals made by the President of the Commission is also in full support for the proposals that the European Parliament has decided to make! Only in this way of solidarity will we be able to master this problem, certainly not with too much emotion, but certainly with a great focus.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-04-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e5132	The next item is Mrs. Club-Chairman Ing. Dietrich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-04-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e5154	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! There are moments of truth in politics, and such a one will probably be on 22. had been November 2010, when Muammar al-Gaddafi meant at a meeting with businessmen in Rome: Tomorrow, Europe may not be European and could even be black, because millions of Africans want to go there! Ladies and gentlemen, this statement at the time probably did not take anyone so seriously, because Libya was a bulwark. Of course, there were already lockers there, but Gaddafi has prevented millions of Africans from coming to Europe. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinhauser.]] Today the chaos reigns there. Libya is a transit country, thousands of African refugees are searching through Libya for Europe. It is about five times the size of Germany, has 6 million inhabitants and thousands of miles of desert border that are simply unguardable. Milizes and tow bands deserve a golden nose with the refugees. Ladies and gentlemen, in fact more and more people from these destabilized countries want to come to us, and in fact there are fewer and fewer boats to catch these people. The Council of Europe's Human Rights Commissioner recently said that the middle could become a huge cemetery by autumn. If we look at the numbers about the dead and missing in the Mediterranean, then we see that is really a dramatic development. In the previous year, the total number of missing 3 279 people was now up to 19. ==References====External links== Europe urgently needs an overall strategy. As an Austrian or individual country, we will not be able to solve this issue. And it's good and right that there's a government summit to sit down and look: What can be done about humanitarian support? How can people be helped on the spot? How can we prevent the situation we now have? [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] It is time for a fair and just immigration policy, that is, for a fair and fair division of refugees. Mr Bundeskanzler, if you are talking about the quota, we can fully support it. In Austria, 1.6% of the citizens of the European Union live, and we have already achieved 4.4% of asylum applications. We would like to see a fair distribution of refugees across Europe. I believe that Europe will only work if we are just and fair to each other. [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Stroll.]] Now we are fulfilling our quota to 269 percent. Mr Bundeskanzler, you have our full support as far as the local reception centres are concerned. It is important to see that the refugees do not get into a boat at all, not even go on this dangerous journey to us to Italy or just to Europe. We are missing concrete implementations in this area and we call on you to finally act and commit and strengthen yourself in the European Union. I say to you that the European Union too is not entirely innocent of this refugee problem, a missing agricultural and environmental policy in recent decades has contributed to this. Directive 2009/28/EC alone, which states that by 2020 the share of biofuels must be increased to 10 percent – these biofuels are produced from palm oil, maize or sugar cane – and this directive alone has led to a gold tomb for many investors. They bought land in Africa. This famous land gravebing, the phenomenon of tearing down the land of small farmers under the nail, has now reached an extent that is absolutely unresponsible. [[General condolences.]] In South Sudan alone, Liberia and Indonesia, investors have purchased areas twice as large as Germany in recent years. Ladies and gentlemen, the small farmers who have found their existence there have been expelled. Only 2 to 3 percent could continue to work on the plantations. We do not need to wonder that people are looking for the way elsewhere if we are to remove the basis of life in Africa. [[Abg. Korun: That's right!]] This is not only a missing environmental policy, but also a missing agricultural policy. If Europe supplies the subsidized surpluses such as chicken wings, interiors, frozen meat to Africa at mocking prices, then people there are no longer competitive and local meat production can no longer live, then we are part of the cause of this problem. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach, FPÖ and Greens as well as representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] To sum up, I would like to say: Europe cannot make it that easy. We must try to give the people there a life basis; we must deal responsibly with the resources there. It is not our right to exploit Africa. We must see that criminal tow organisations are being fought and that, in the event of an emergency, when people get into despair and get on their way to Europe, human lives are saved.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-04-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e5220	The next item is Mr Cap's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-04-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e5242	Madam President. High house! The media are full of reports “The Dead of Garabulli” – this has been an article in the “Mirror” in which a tractor is quoted. He said: “When you count the dead in the Libyan waters of two or three weeks, you also come to 800. They don't appear in any statistics. But the EU is shocked when 800 die at once? ‘ He laughs even louder. In Suwara alone, we have over 50,000 Africans and Syrians, and on the Tunisian side many Moroccans and Tunisians are still waiting. ()” This could continue the article. This proves that in reality it is not about refugees of war, but that poverty is also a background, as well as a misdistribution of wealth and economic possibilities. Individual speakers have already suggested: This is not just about the European Union's trade policy. It is also a question of preserving dictatorships that safeguard resources, energy, raw materials, so that the zones of prosperity can develop, by the way, without regard to climate change and without regard to the environment. You have to see that in the background. On TV I saw a movie, there was a little boy who had to leave for two hours in the morning to get three tomatoes. Nintendo, mobile phone and everything so well known in the welfare zones, he doesn't even know. There someone has to get three tomatoes away for two hours – let alone what it is like when someone has a health problem there. When you look at this, you understand that there are people – that is, I come back to the topic of war refugees – who say: I'd rather risk going down in the sea and dying than going on here or even around my Fear life because I'm being persecuted. You have to see that. The European Union is a community of values, and this community of values must now be taken into account. By the way, in the background: It should never be forgotten that the Americans were the comrades when it came to eliminating the dungeons of the wealth zones down there: like Mr. Gaddafi, Mr. Saddam Hussein – and the Assad would almost succeed. This is one of the reasons why there have ultimately been these conflicts at the ethnic, religious, political level, so that, among other things, these refugee flows have occurred. What can these millions of refugees do if they are played on the geo- and world-political map – at their burdens, over their heads, over their fates – so that millions of people are now refugees, in Lebanon, Jordan, in Turkey and in many other countries? There is a joint responsibility of the rich countries, the banks, hedge funds, investors, all of them as they sit there. [[Abg. Kickl: The capital is to blame!]] Mr. David Cameron is the best. The British, back to Tony Blair, were the first when it came to military intervention. No one came to mind at the time: What's the matter with Gaddafi? What about Hussein? What's the matter with Assad? No one had a concept for this. David Cameron was the first, and with him the Labour Party under Tony Blair, I don't want to take it out. And now David Cameron has no idea of refugee problems but to send a warship – and something else, a trawler, I think. Is that disgraceful? That is in fact disgraceful! And now it's in the paper and you read it everywhere: What does politics do?- Oh, my God! – This requires not only policy but also the World Bank and the major economic institutions that decide how economic development will continue. You must never forget that in this context. [[In the case of the SPÖ, the members of the FPÖ and the Agg. Pirklhuber.]] These refugee camps – that's what a tractor said – have been there for a long time. Zig thousands are already there. That's an idea you're saying, in North Africa you're doing something like that. But how do you do that? And there is now an editor of the “time”, including others: There's no going to be around for a robust use in Libya. You'll have to think about it once again, if you want to take care of it again. Because who gives the sound? – The militias, the Islamic state, the business makers who will become millionaires with the death of refugees. I don't cry half a tear to that criminal of Gaddafi. But you should have known what was supposed to be afterwards. No one has thought about it, because that is the real problem in this context. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from interested parties.]] Therefore, one will have to think about these North African centers – even if it is unpleasant – so that these people there will have the opportunity to make asylum applications in safety, while keeping their bodies and lives safe, namely those who are really refugees of war. But there are also many economic refugees, and there is a need to change the economic order there if you want them to have a perspective there, to stay in Africa or in individual Arab countries, to live there, to produce there and to be our partners at the economic and political level. This is the problem we are facing. It is a matter of much more than developing development cooperation, for which I am, that is clear and logical anyway. This goes far beyond what the EU could naturally do. Because technically and organisationally, countries can make sure that there is no single thing going down in the Mediterranean. Of course they can, but you have to want it too! Only it must not be possible to be influenced by this one London election fighter, who will probably soon experience the end of his social and political structure, who puts pressure on everyone there and some others. This is the problem, and I think we should be honest enough to face it. One last point, because I still have a little time: I quote you from an article in the “Time” of the 29th century. April 2015 under the title “Passes for Millions”: "Thousands of people are drowning on their way to the EU. But those who have money can save themselves the risky journey across the Mediterranean – and buy European papers.” Then individual countries of the European Union are listed and prices for a passport, stay et cetera. – If you have money, don't sit in a boat and go down. In fact, it's a barrage, what's happening there, and you can't be outraged enough!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-04-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e5296	Mr Klubobmann's next speech is Dr. Strolz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-04-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e5318	Madam President. Estimated government members! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear fellow citizens! Josef Cap, yes, you're right, you can be outraged. But – I really have to pay attention to finding the right words – who is ruling this Europe? It is the Social Democrats together with the Conservatives. I miss this fiery, missionary way in the European institutions. The truth is: Where have the Austrian government members been in recent years when it came to implementing a common asylum system? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nice.]] The question is: Where were the Austrian government members when all the people drowned? I can remember that this good year, namely during the 18th century. ==References== In October 2014, under Italian flag with “Mare Nostrum”, a total of 140,000 people were saved, at the cost of € 9 million per month. Then Italy has said that we do not want to carry it ourselves. And what did the 28 Heads of Government say? You said we're not ready to raise €9 million. That's not anyone! We do not have to resort to Europe or to someone else. These are 28 heads of government who were not willing to take in €800 for a human life. That's the fact, and that's the unheard of! [[Congratulations with NEOS, Greens and Team Stronach.]] Mr Bundeskanzler, I would like to hear this very fast appeal from you at the European Council. 800 € must be worth a human life! I do not want to say what we spend 800 € in this country for. But to say no, the Italians do not do it anymore, we will not carry it as a European Union, that is something that is unheard of! And then to practice in a critical rhetoric when 800 people sink on a touch – I can't stand that! – The proposals are still coming. [[Abg. Cute: After what are the NEOS doing? Proposal?]] I can't stand that because it's just a sort of double-dwelling thing I don't accept. [[Congratulation with NEOS and Greens.]] What to do? First: In the short term, immediate action is of course “Mare Nostrum 2.0”, as the Caritas, the Diacony, the Volkshilfe, the Greens and we demand. You can do that right away. The Italians have shown how to do it. “Triton” belongs to an increase in the number of people who still have to change the mandate. Yes, Juncker says you can also go out into the water, but no, they didn't alter the mandate, and we ask that of course. [[Abg. Hübner: Bring refugees to Austria?]] They also know that the €9 million will not be enough, but that is to increase so that we can save human lives. 800 € or you take the breath of people – forever! As European states, we have done this, taking the air to breath forever – and that is not worthy of the continent of human rights and humanity! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Nice.]] Secondly, Of course, we need a European asylum authority. How unworthy is it to move this issue from one country to another; how unworthy is it to move this issue from one state to another alone in Austria?- Oh, my God! That's last-class, we can do better! Yes, a common asylum authority in Europe. We're a community of fate. That's what we're damned to do. If a hut is burning on this continent, the next day the other hut will burn. We tried this in the Balkans – the other hut burned the next day. That is why we are a community of fate and will also have to be an organized community of opportunities. And, of course, we also need to offer individual people opportunities. Thirdly, The asylum policy is, of course, not only a European asylum authority, but also a whole. We must agree on this, and we must take this responsibility together. Fourth: We Neos are clear that we are raising foreign and security policy at European level, which is a fate issue for this continent. [[Abg. Cute: And what do we do with the refugees?]] We come to each of the crisis spots a month or a year too late: Ukraine, Syria et cetera – we hop everywhere and complain when refugees come. Yeah, we're totally exploring the relationships. There are 2 million to 2.5 million refugees in Turkey. In 28 EU countries, there are only 626 000 refugees. Lebanon alone, as large as Upper Austria, has received more refugees than the entire European Union! [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] I'm just telling you: I can't change it, but one thing is clear: These people are coming. On this planet, over 56 million refugees are on their way. They come to us, dead or alive. And now you can say as FPÖ, we're still pulling the fence 6 meters higher, sending drones over it – that doesn't work because this world doesn't work that way. [[Congratulation with NEOS and Greens as well as the Abg. Yılmaz.]] They come dead or alive. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: What do NEOS suggest?]] So: ‘Mare Nostrum 2.0’, European Asylum Authority, Association of Asylum Policy and Foreign and Security Policy. Fifth point: Neighbourhood policy, of course, is a massive one. As long as we have such a wealth gap – and Mr Cap has a point, of course – and especially as long as wars and conflicts are increasing at the European external border, they will come to millions. They will fight against election on the back of these poor people, but this will not help anyone. They come because as long as they have no perspective, they will be moving. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Peter Worm: Many Austrians have no perspective either!]] Imagine what You'd do it if you didn't have a perspective! They'd be moving. And many of our parents, at least grandparents, did. This means, of course, that the neighbourhood policy has to go up. We must come to an eye-to-face cooperation. If we do not do this with Africa, then this continent will set in motion, there is no question. I remember the numbers Mrs Dietrich called. If landlines are bought up twice as big as Germany, what do you think people do? [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] Mr. colleague, if you're going to buy the country tomorrow, your house will be bought away, what are you doing? – Yes, we do it at an eye-to-face level, but to do so, we have to make it united. [[Abg. Cute: Yes, let's do it at eye level!]] We cannot say that everyone is doing a little bit in Europe, all 28 states, because that is quite the opposite. We do not have the capacity to do this alone in Austria, but we must do so at European level. The European Union is still the strongest economic power on this planet. But one is not even ready to take the approach – and this is what I owe to the Social Democrats and the Conservatives – to face up to the responsibility associated with this economic power! It's clear: If we do not face this responsibility, it will sooner or later become a delight to us. [[Abg. Cute: Let's assume we're responsible! Then what?]] To be responsible means to make an alternative offer as land purchase, for example, means economic cooperation at an eye. That would be a possibility. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Development cooperation at an eye, that would also be a possibility. This all happens in a small style, but we have to implement the good things that are already happening in a bigger style. All this is possible and is only a question of will. With this will, I hope it will last: also with social democracy, also with the conservatives – and not only on days when 800 people drown. That's my wish.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-04-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e5513	The next item is the vote on the report by Mrs Lamassoure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-04-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e5535	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! Perhaps some of you who have already deliberately watched news broadcasts in the 1970s, such as me, can still remember the images of people who have tried to flee over the open sea in much too small and overcrowded boats. Images of known boats, pictures of desperate people who were stranded in a foreign land without possessions – and were still happy and grateful to escape from horror. About 1.6 million Vietnameses then tried to escape communist terror across the sea and entered history as a boatpeople. Estimated 250 000 people have drowned. Perhaps some of you still remember the name Cap Anamur, a rescue and hospital ship that was launched through a private initiative and saved thousands of people's lives. Obviously, history repeats itself. Again we get terrible pictures delivered to the house, pictures of people who for various reasons leave their home country and are sent by criminals to a dangerous journey. I think we all agree with the desire to put an end to this death as soon as possible. However, we are less agreed – and this is also seen in the debate here – on how, what is the right and most meaningful way and how we can decide as quickly as possible. The decisions to be taken are on the one hand: How do you save the lives of those who have already made their way? How, then, are these people justly distributed in Europe? And, on the other hand, How can we safely bring those who have the prospect of asylum to Europe? How are those who do not have sufficient asylum grounds to avoid taking the dangerous journey at all? The initiative “Save Lives”, which was launched last year by the Minister of the Interior Hanni Mikl- Leitner, i.e. the year in which the EU-28 had to deal with most asylum applications, and which has now been included in the 10-point plan under item 7 above, will address these issues, among other things. The rapid response of the EU Council to triple the funds for “Poseidon” and “Triton” is a first step in saving more human lives. Of course, it may be different to think whether Frontex is the right organization for it or whether perhaps a better organized one, we say “Cap Anamur II”: In my opinion, it is essential that the commitment to save life has absolute priority – with whatever means, and that is now being tried. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] A question of central importance – that has already been addressed – is the question of distribution. In the opinion of many experts, “Dublin” certainly has its shortcomings. Steffen Angenendt from the German Institute for International Policy and Security has developed such a multi-factor model, which would ensure a more just distribution key. According to this model, Austria, for example, had already over-filled the refugee shots by 123 percent. I think that we have already achieved this very well in Austria, although, admittedly, it is not all over the world. But based on these Angenendt figures – which is also important to me – I think I'm calling, of whomever, that Austria doesn't do enough and that we almost have to be ashamed, is inappropriate – and not very helpful. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] A fair distribution key – I think most of them agree – must be developed. I assume that all the government members involved are putting pressure on their government colleagues from other EU Member States to do so. If there is also a corresponding European reform programme, this should bring some planning certainty to all EU Member States. Another question that needs to be resolved is how to motivate people who do not have sufficient asylum grounds to stay in their countries of origin. There will have to be increased efforts in European development cooperation, with very strong emphasis on cooperation. The aim must be to achieve, in cooperation with the respective governments in the countries of origin, a safe and stable environment, thus reducing the causes of illegal migration. Safe reception centres or start-up centres in North Africa have already been addressed today, therefore: Although it is certainly difficult to find solutions, it should not be said from the outset: This is not possible, but should seek solutions together with the UNHCR. It must be tried in all ways and by all means to destroy the business base of the tractors. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The ten-point programme, which has been decided, therefore, has our full support in all the shortcomings that such a programme of course has always had.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-04-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e5639	The next item is the speech by Mr Kickl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-04-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e5660	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! A lot has now come together, which, as I mean, needs a corrective position. I would like to start with Mr Cap. Yes, I share his criticism of the consequences, the consequences, when it comes to the negative development of unbridled liberalism, where one believes that the market regulates everything for itself; yes, he is right. But that Cap is therefore a second approach to the Marxist world revolution is not necessary. Mr Cap, it sounded a little bit like that. The vocabulary you used, and the order you spent, so to speak, to eliminate poverty in the world, we have had that before. You can read this with Marx and Engels – and we have experienced the “implementation”. I must remind you that this has ended here on our continent, not on another, for millions, yes, for hundreds of millions, in poverty and insecurity. You really do not need to exhume this model, Mr Cap. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The second thing I want to say is: Of course, one can now discuss, as it were, the function that certain Arab leaders had – formerly, it was so-called revolutionary leaders who some have liked to visit, later it was only more dictators; so the times, in part, change overnight –: This function can well be discussed, and I can only remind you that those who are critical with themselves today have welcomed these developments of Arab spring, which have been the ones that have stood there and in all their shaking naivety – yes, I call it – where the European Union has once again tried to express its idea of democracy and freedom to the whole world. What has come out of it – from the Middle East to North Africa – we now see: Wherever one has gone out to implement democracy – that was the official requirement – today the IS is particularly angry. You also have to consider whether there was really such a clear view as you always use it for yourself. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it's like this: The death in the Mediterranean does not leave anyone cold, does not leave anyone untouched; this death is affecting – and this death has to be ended. But this is probably the end of the similarities between you and me, because when it comes to the question of how to do this and what the appropriate means for it are, worlds separate us. I am concerned about something quite different, namely the naïveness on this subject, particularly on the part of the left here and in the general debate on this issue. This affects me, it scares me, and sometimes the way in which you act makes me angry. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] I'll tell you why: Ladies and gentlemen! Unlike you from the left, especially the Greens, I do not believe that illegal immigration – and I repeat the word: illegal immigration – can be tolerated in any form or that mass asylum fraud should only be made permanent in any form. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is precisely what we are talking about: illegal immigration. – We have to call things by name! This is the phenomenon with which we have to deal with very large parts and with which we are confronted daily via television pictures. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Korun.]] – I know you don’t like to hear that, so I tell you again and again. It is perfectly clear to every outside observer how the political debate is going, which is obvious: The Greens, the Left, the SPÖ and those who sometimes believe that you have to march there, because you are currently particularly clever to the left, are anxious to take care of the so-called rights – and be still so presumptuous and so horrendous – of all those who choose the European Union and, in particular, Austria as a target country from everywhere on this globe. [[Abg. Brosz: Question of perspective!]] Take care of these rights! Look Once you get to the stories that tell these people when they're put on television, where you're currently organizing a mission of distress after another! Listen to what people there say: There's no mention of asylum, it's not said: I came here because I was persecuted by body and life, and when the conditions in my home country change, I am the first to go back there to contribute to the development of my own society. – No, they all want to stay, they want to benefit from prosperity! That's legitimate. But it is just as legitimate – and now we are the freedom-loving ones who declare themselves responsible – to talk about the rights of those who live here, about the rights of those who have this country as their home, who want it to remain as it is, who do not want to exceed the level, and, unlike you, are convinced that one can also help without importing the problems of the whole world into one's own country! These are the ones we liberals care about! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Korun and Mr Brosz.]] Yes, yes, the green suffering pressure, I know you can be helped! I would have put forward a proposal on how to make a win-win situation out of a Lose-lose situation, Mr Brosz, because you are always particularly prominent in terms of humanity: We should simply build the future asylum centres where the voter's share of the Greens is particularly large if we do not get under control. This is a win-win situation! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Your voters and you are happy about it, others are not burdened, that's great, because we should act very quickly. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, I am concerned about those who live here and who also have their rights, and these people are increasingly in need of a voice because they are going through a discussion that lives on making them a bad conscience and making the good heart difficult for them because everything is being maimed together. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: studied? What kind of logic is this, Mr. Kickl?]] The nebula pots are being attacked in an incredible way. Then the illegal immigration flows – and I repeat, that's what we're dealing with here! – to refugee waves. That's the first thing that's going to be refugee waves. If that's not enough, then you put one on it, then it's not a wave of refugees, then it's war refugees, and so that's not so abstract, they're all coming from Syria. If that is still not enough, then of course these refugees are the overwhelming majority of women and children. That's how this spiral works, so it works. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Call to the Greens: Unbelievable cynicism!]] “Lügenpresse” was the specialist word for this in Germany. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] [[Abg. Blow: Green Thought Police!]] But now there is one aspect that comes between you: You don't have the pictures under control yet. [[Calls to the Greens.]] I have looked at some of these pictures of boat crews. So one thing I have to tell you: Many women and many children I did not see on these boats, nor was I aware that those people who have a particularly dark skin color come from Syria. I didn't know that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Korun: Your cynicism is embarrassing!]] I would rather have had the suspicion that they came from somewhere in the center of the African continent. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But you're fogging everything here to make the Austrians as bad a conscience as possible. That's your strategy, and we won't let you go through it. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: We all have responsibility!]] Therefore, do not come to me with this EU sigh as regards the distribution by quota of any refugees – apart from creating You don't even have it in your own country! [[Abg. Honey: The one who should have a bad conscience here, that's you!]] They leave the back door open and say first, it depends on the size, on the population, but then it depends on the economic performance, then it may depend on the debt and, and, Yeah, who's left then? – Then we are left with all these problems, which are not ours. That is the problem on the whole matter. That's never gonna work! That's what our clubman was right about. The strategy by which one can get hold of this consists of two words: No way! This is the Australian variant: No way! Make this clear to the people who have the idea of getting into such a boat there, and perhaps the whole family is putting together their money, which they have laboriously put together or somehow worked out. It is about preventing these people from getting into such a boat. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is about not leaving the people who deserve to earn any more and thus preventing this death in the sea. No way! Do it to the Australians! That's a variant that can work. [[Abg. Korun: No way!]] Then we can also talk about those who are really looking for help. They always come under the wheels in view of these mass movements. That's the problem! But I think we need to think about it too. We must be close to these people who are really persecuted, because of wars, because of ethnic conflicts. [[Abg. Brosz: Exactly, it's the main thing that never comes here!]] This is more favourable, and this makes it easier for them to return to where they are urgently needed after these conflicts have ended, and where they should actually be concerned to contribute to the strengthening and reconstruction of their society. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That would have to happen on the spot. On the spot, but not with us! Against this background, I do not want to discuss quotas with you, where the European countries are negotiating among themselves: The so much, the less and the nothing at all. Talk about Saudi Arabia, talk about Qatar, talk about these countries! I am therefore saying this because these countries do not sit on a pile of debt – they have billions of funds and could afford to do so more easily. There's no finger being touched. I expect to see something like Islamic solidarity in these matters.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-04-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e5957	Mrs Mag. Muttons. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-04-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e5978	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! In one point, Mr Kickl, I would like to give you just one point: [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: In all you can give him right!]] They said we're separateing worlds, and I can only underline that. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens as well as with representatives of ÖVP, Team Stronach and NEOS.]] The people who are trying to get to Europe via the Mediterranean, these people are fleeing from terrorists who are fleeing from civil wars. [[Call the FPÖ:Yes, yes, of course!]] - Yes, you laugh! [[Abg. Kucharovich: Really embarrassing!]] They flee from hunger, and they flee from deadly diseases. These people who are trying to come to Europe know death. They lost their parents, they might have lost their children. They don't know where their siblings are, where their acquaintances are. They watched death, and they fled from this death. I think that's her good right to do that. [[Abg. Beautiful: But that's just a faith!]] - No, that's not faith, that's a fact. [[I should like to congratulate the SPÖ and MEPs of Greens and NEOS.]] In view of these backgrounds, the discussion is sometimes very cynical. [[Call at the FPÖ:Cynic is unfortunately something else!]] After listening to you, I can only say that. I wonder, What about our Europe? What about our values when such a cynical discussion is held? [[Call at the FPÖ:Zynism is the tow!]] Sometimes the sea emergency aid was also weathered or argued, because there is the danger of imitation. But, ladies and gentlemen, what would that mean? Does that mean in the reverse: We watch when people drown, for this is what deterrence serves? – With such a policy, ladies and gentlemen, we do not solve the refugee problem at all, but we bury our own values together with the dead in the Mediterranean. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] The sea rescue which has been mentioned many times today is our duty, and in fact it does not need any discussion at all. It is our duty, and there is no political margin on this issue that you are addressing here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] [[Abg. Kickl: I don't find you on the speaker list!]] I am therefore glad that the advocates of this deterrence policy have not been able to enforce themselves and that the threefold of the funds now decided has been given to the then level of Mare Nostrum, and I would like to add: I believe that the EU could school the 28 more than what Italy has done in a whole year. [[Call at the FPÖ:What can we learn?]] However, the EU should also be able to fulfil the overall tasks of solidarity. I therefore expressly support the government's position to find a common quota system in the EU by June. It can't stay that few states worry and the rest just look away. Taking care of the refugees is a pan-European task. The next point has also been raised: We need to find a new, better-calculated key to refugee reception, but we also need uniform standards in the recognition of refugees, not to mention the minimum standards for the supply of refugees. We also need to look at the Dublin agreement more closely and possibly change it. [[Abg. Kickl: Ah that?]] The rescue of the sea is compulsory, but it is certainly not the solution to the refugee question. Nor can the solution be found in the fight against tow straps. Surely one must take action against them, that is not a question, but we will not solve the problem of refugee flows, because this account does not go up either. Not too many tractors lead to many refugees, but: There are so many tugs because there are so many refugees. In fact, there is only one effective means of creating refugee flows: We must ensure that people don't have to flee at all. This shows, however, that there are no short-term solutions. We need a long breath, we need long-term strategies for Africa and the Middle East to create peace there, and we need better cooperation with our African and Arab partners. [[Abg. Kickl: That sounds almost neocolo-nialistic!]] It will also be important for Austria to increase its contribution to development cooperation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-04-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e6155	Next, Mrs Mag. Korun to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-04-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e6176	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen in the visitor gallery and in front of the screens that watch and listen to us! The Federal Chancellor, who unfortunately is no longer among us, said, among other things: The Mediterranean has become the most dangerous border in the world. That's a completely correct analysis, just: The Mediterranean has not only become the most dangerous border in the world for a week, not even for a year. For 20 years EU Heads of State and Government have been working together on a defence policy against protection seekers. I ask you, Federal Chancellor: Where have you been in the last few years against this policy? What have you done so that the Mediterranean does not become the most dangerous border in the world or so that it does not remain? – The Federal Chancellor can't answer it, he's not there. He also said that at the EU summit he reported, there was a consensus that life salvation is the first place and that it must now be addressed. I'd love to believe him. Unfortunately, I cannot do so because this EU summit did not decide on a real life saving programme for the Mediterranean, but even the threefolding of the funds for an EU border protection programme. This programme does not protect refugees from drowning, but the EU borders from refugees. It cannot therefore be said that at this EU summit there has really been a consensus on the fact that life saving actually comes first. I can also remember the Mahnwach, which was around ten days ago with us in Vienna – a few days after almost 800 people, refugees, drowned in the Mediterranean. There were several members of our federal government at Ballhausplatz or at Minorite Square, affected ants have shown, partially concerned speeches have given. The next day, the Council of Ministers decided on the next strengthening of asylum. Ladies and gentlemen, we must already be so honest to admit: For the dead refugees, the EU Heads of State and Government and the Ministers of the Interior and Ministers of the Interior are very saddened. For the living refugees, they have left mostly defence. [[Call at the SPÖ: But that's cynicism now!]] [[Abg. Steinhauser:... cynicism!]] – No, that is concrete policy that has been decided at the EU Summit. Look at these ten points! The only positive point that might change something in the medium and long term is the point for resettlement programmes, and this point was not accidentally built on mere voluntaryness. That is to say, what you are calling for all the time – European solidarity, we should jointly take responsibility, even distribution, and all should participate in resettlement programmes – as it remains with lip confessions! Look Look at the decisions of the EU Summit You're looking at your specific policy over the past few years! Why isn't the Minister of the Interior here? Although it has been talking about solidarity keys and solidarity policy for a year and a half, it has for years been against the fact that the Dublin Agreement is being imposed on its hands and feet, although it knows that Dublin is the exact opposite of a solidarity EU refugee policy. [[Congratulation with Greens and NEOS]] Dublin means: Responsible for all arriving in the EU are Cyprus, Malta, Greece, Spain, Italy. I'm sorry, but That is exactly the opposite of solidarity, ladies and gentlemen. If you take yourself seriously and if you really want a solidarity division of those seeking protection in the EU, you have to start changing the Dublin system today rather than tomorrow. That's not what happens. That's why it's been crocodile tears that have been shed in every refugee's disaster, as it's called. The next day you continue as before, and in many cases – as with us ten days ago – you even tighten up the competent laws here in the country the next day. That's cynicism! That is exactly what will not bring us further, which is the sad guarantee that the next dead and the next dead, the hundreds and thousands of refugees who are still alive, will soon be out of their lives. Because what was decided at the EU Summit is not a real life saving programme, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] There was a lot of talk about exploitive trade relations, and I must confess that much more than I expected. I have not expected such an insight as Mrs Dietrich, for example, in her speech, or Mr Cap, who spoke of exploitable economic relations, to speak of exploitable economic relations. I also largely agree with this analysis, but I ask myself: How can it be, then, that the ministers of our government parties are going through fishing agreements year after year, for example, which ensure that the coasts are fished empty from African countries? How can it be that our government representatives have nothing to do with the widespread land of Grabbing, i.e. the purchase of fertile soils, for example in many African countries, and even cynically argue with profitable businesses? How can it then be that highly subsidized EU communities, for example on the Sandaga market in West Africa, Senegal, cost one third of what is required of local vegetables? Is it not cynical to criticise such a poor trade relationship from here, so as not to do anything about it? I join in the analysis, which says: Whoever is deprived of the basis of life due to such cynical trade relations, he or she has no choice but to emigrate and build up a new existence elsewhere. I would like to read to you, so that it is as concrete as possible, the statement of a Senegalese fisherman, or perhaps one must say, a former Senegalese fisherman, after all, because of international fisheries agreements he has lost his right to fish off the coast of Senegal – that country of which he is a citizen. [[Abg. Beautiful: He didn't lose!]] This fisherman says: “It’s not easy to stay here and have nothing to do. So I took responsibility and broke up [with the boat]. But I did not go to die, but to be successful.” Ladies and gentlemen, these are the conditions that lead to forced migration. They can move the walls even higher, they can attach even more barbed wire to the EU's external border, you can try even more to bring military refugee boats or other migrants' boats to the kentern or sink: These people will continue to board boats, and they will continue to try to reach the EU. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: We are in a migration debate and no asylum debate! You should be that far!]] That is why we should be more committed to tackling the causes of refugees and the causes of forced migration together. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: “Forced migration” is it now? So, economic refugees?]] I therefore propose a second motion for a resolution on the reorientation of EU policy on escape and forced migration. The Minister of the Interior is urged to consistently use her political weight to establish a policy of solidarity and sustainable asylum. This should include crisis prevention, the possibility of legal entry and application of asylum seekers and uniform high standards in asylum procedures within the EU. A key motive should be to help the protection principle of the Geneva Convention on Refugees to the best possible effectiveness in the European Union. Furthermore, the Federal Chancellor and Vice-Chancellor are urged to consistently use their political weight to ensure that the EU's trade relations, trade and fisheries agreements with third countries no longer lead to the withdrawal of many people in these countries from the economic base, such as, for example, the by overfishing off the African coast or “Landgrabbing”, i.e. the withdrawal of fertile soils by purchase – has happened for years. Ladies and gentlemen, it is up to all of us, in common with all of us, to fight the issue of escape. Finally, instead of just showing affected faces after every ship that has fallen when people have died again, we do it. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-04-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e6326	The motion for a resolution on Mare Nostrum II is sufficiently supported, properly implemented and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-04-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e6390	The second request is not available to the Bureau and should therefore be made properly by the next speaker or speaker. Mrs Dipl.-Kffr. Pfurtscheller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-04-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e6420	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the ministerial bench! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear viewers on the visitor gallery and in front of the screens! Mrs Korun, as I have the opportunity to speak right after you, I would like to start by correcting two things that you said or initiated: They have complained that our Minister of the Interior is not here today. If you have listened carefully to Mr Amon, he has reported that the Minister of the Interior has a meeting with 20 other ministers of the Interior in St. Pölten today. The topic of their meeting is also the topic of refugees. The second point: You said that the Minister of the Interior would continue to defend the Dublin procedures. That's not true, our Minister of the Interior has been for a long time for the quota, she has always represented it and has already said it here in the hall. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Korun: wants to keep it, at the same time!]] - Thank you. Mr Bundeskanzler and Mrs Glawischnig have already referred to this: As far as the refugees on the boats are concerned, there has finally been positive news in the media once again today. I took “ORF-Online” that it was about 6,000 saved refugees on the weekend. I think this figure shows that maybe Triton is not as bad as you all think now, I think you can draw positive things from it as well. [[Intervocations with FPÖ and greens.]] But that's not actually my topic now, I wanted to say: Finally once again gratifying news from this page! Of course it would be even more beautiful if the following unfortunately still stand fictitious news in the media: After the EU states agreed on a binding distribution rate and the UNHCR checkpoint on the North African Mediterranean coast began their work, the first 6 000 asylum seekers were legally able to enter Italy on safe boats made available by the EU Member States on the weekend. They will continue to travel to the various EU Member States in the next few days in accordance with the agreed quotas and will be distributed to the available quarters. Unfortunately, this report is still fiction, but I think it will one day be a reality if the decisions of the European Council of 23 December 1994 are taken. April and the Ten-Point Plan of the European Foreign and Interior Ministers of 20 April. It will be implemented as soon as possible. I believe that if this comes – and I am convinced – then Austria can also be proud to point out that our Minister of the Interior had already proposed such a resettlement system at European level in July 2014 and thus had a pioneering role. Mrs Glawischnig, you have said that until now there has been no legal opportunity for refugees to come to us. That's not true. In September 2013, due to the terrible humanitarian situation in Syria, the Federal Government decided on a humanitarian reception programme for 500 refugees and then again in April 2014 for 1,000 other Syrian refugees who were able to enter us quite normally, in addition to the normal asylum seekers. [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: of those not even!]] With this quota, we take up most refugees voluntarily to Germany and Sweden in Europe, and of course it could be more and more, as I see it. The implementation of such an action requires clear processes in coordination with the relevant international organisations such as IOM and UNHCR and the countries of origin. And yes, there are not all 1,500, but about half of the refugees have already arrived in Austria, which are 138 families and more than 300 children. If you stop me from doing all this for so long, I have to tell you that we have asked ourselves: In the US, which is a very experienced resettlement state, a procedure takes an average of 18 months. That's why we're not outside the standard. However, I also believe that the fastest possible solution to this terrible humanitarian crisis should definitely be at the top of the EU's agenda. With all due respect for the fact that there are many issues that need to be dealt with within the EU, I am convinced – and I agree with Mr Strolz – that the EU must finally become more active externally. Especially our direct neighboring continent Africa needs to focus more on efforts. In the long term, the constant flow of refugees from African countries can only be banned if people on the ground have a somewhat acceptable basis of living. Today, a lot of colleagues have already done what this can look like. I am of course convinced that Europe can and must, above all, make an economic and political contribution to this. Until these long-term measures are taken, however, there is much to be done – this has already been implemented by several colleagues and representatives. I would like to point out that I very much welcome the fact that we are in solidarity with the Mediterranean countries relatively in the short term. In particular, Italy and Greece have to bear the main burden and, without wanting to be naughty now, they are also overshadowed by this situation. I think it is a good approach to support them in the processing of asylum applications, because it is heard again and again that hundreds of thousands of refugees are somehow living as submarines in Italy and Greece. I think that's an unsustainable state. Overall, I believe that the earlier the EU agrees that the Dublin procedures are no longer the right instrument for the division of asylum seekers, the better it is. From my point of view, the agreement on a European quota system is the command of the hour. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-04-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e6481	The next item is Mr Ertlschweiger's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-04-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e6503	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Values Representatives of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! What has been played in the Mediterranean or is playing on the Mediterranean is a human tragedy. We know that. We have already heard today that it is a humanitarian command to save the people in distress. That's a fact. I think it is good and important that the Frontex border protection agency is now better equipped financially. That makes sense. However, this problem will not be solved by just one measure. It's not enough if you raise the fences. That's it. It's not enough if you give Frontex more money. There are different measures to be taken. It cannot be, ladies and gentlemen, that Austria – we have already heard it today – takes up the third most refugees, seen in relation to the population, and other countries in Europe are making themselves a beautiful day. There are ten countries in Europe that really vote the burden, and the others are killing these ten countries stupidly. It can't be, it's not fair. Nor will crocodile tears be shed, Mrs Korun – I did not understand this statement from you – I think the EU is taking it very seriously. It is crucial, I believe – and we have heard this today – that we do something on the ground that we in Africa locally raise awareness of people, open our eyes to them, and tell them that Europe has a record unemployment – 24 million people are unemployed – that we have high youth unemployment. Not only milk and honey flow here. It is necessary to raise local people's awareness that they do not at all come to the idea of taking the dangerous path across the Mediterranean, and then die in the future. Here you have to put on, and there are different possibilities. One aspect is certainly tow crime, even if it is not crucial for many here. I do believe, however, that there is a massive need to limit tow crime. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team, as well as with representatives of the FPÖ.]] It cannot be that individuals make a lot of money with the fate of other people, of black Africans who want to enter the European Union. That can't be. I am also in favour – we have heard it today – that there is a fair quota that the distribution key is fair and asylum solidarity is not only a keyword but is also lived. At the moment, this is not the case, and it cannot continue. Unfortunately, it always needs a tragedy or a number of tragedies, so that people wake up that you can see it on TV and read it in the print media and say that it can't go on this way and you have to do something here. I'm saying every dead person is too much. We're not going to solve the problem by being completely shot off. But we also have a commitment to our people. Mr Kickl said it today: We also have a commitment to the Austrians. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and FPÖ.]] With 500 000 unemployed, we have a record unemployment in this country. We have an exuberant tow crime. You know that I am a Turkish Member, and I experience it every day on the border, on the east motorway, where refugees standing by the motorway et cetera are picked up. [[Call the Greens.]] I believe that one must finally start here and, I have said it more often in this context, also have to think about temporary border controls as long as we do not get to grips with this. That's a question. Perhaps it is unpopular, perhaps it may not fit everyone into the crowd, but Austria must take the decisive steps if other countries in the European Union do not fulfil their tasks. Of course, it is clear that tow crime will not be reduced – quite simply – because more and more people from abroad want to go to the European Union. You can't blame them. Everyone wants a better life for himself and his family. The problem is, we can't answer everyone. Austria is also only a small boat, and Austria is fulfilling the asylum quotas with a fee – we are a show country. We are, I say, really well positioned as far as humanitarian aid is concerned. But in my opinion, much more has to be done in the fight against tow crime. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I think that's another mosaic for the problem solution. There is now not only one way to solve the problem, there are many puzzles that need to fit together here. I believe that Austria has a great responsibility within the European Union and that we can and must call for this responsibility from the other Member States as well. We owe it to our own people. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-04-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e6612	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place, and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-04-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e6679	Next speaker: Mrs Bayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-04-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e6701	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the government bank, in the hall and at home! I have been working very intensively with development cooperation for over 12 years now, and I do not want to make a murderer pit from my heart. I am sure that development cooperation alone will not break away from people the pressure to have to leave their home country. What we need is much more. This is a coherent policy towards sustainable development. Some previous speakers have called the unbearable EU fisheries agreements. Speakers in front of me have mentioned the pressure due to the partly crazy conjugation ratios of agrofuels that promote the land of Grabbing. Fortunately, this last week, last week in the EU Parliament, has been reduced. The incredible EU agricultural subsidies and the issue of export promotions that contribute to ruin African markets have also been addressed. I would like to add another example of non-coherent policy. This is our worldwide, incredible greed for cheap IT products, which are often produced from rare earths, from minerals, from metals. In doing so, we knowingly assume that their promotion happens in part under slave-like conditions. We are very careful to see that armed conflicts are financed by trade in these materials. At the same time, however, we go here and then download the electrical scrap, which we can no longer need, partly illegally into African countries. That is, with our non-coherent policy, we contribute to a misery due to exploitary work, we contribute financially to the incitement of conflicts and to poisoning the environment. All these are, of course, push factors for migration. A coherent policy looked quite different. A coherent policy – as all the departments are of course required – takes into account the consequences of their decisions. With a coherent policy in the sense of sustainable development cooperation, together with a financially well-equipped development policy, we could jointly help to create life bases so that people in their home country can really live a decent life by, for example, having fair and justly paid jobs, by providing them with education that allows them – above all women – to have justly paid jobs by using land or fish in a healthy environment to really gain their food through their own work. With development policy, for example, we can also help build up tax systems so that these countries are able to take their own taxes, close tax havens and even carry out their important social and infrastructure tasks. For us, Africa is the closest geographical continent in Austria, and it is to be seen that today a billion Africans will become around 2 billion by the end of the century. Almost half of all Africans today are under 15 years old. That means that this continent has a lot of potential in the good, in the positive sense, but this potential must be used, and that is exactly where the challenge lies also a coherent development policy. The pressure of people who do not see a future for themselves and their children to leave home, which affects us little in Europe. This is mainly about migration flows that are taking place within African countries, where migration is being carried out in other poor countries. I am very grateful to Mr Bundeskanzler for his very clear words as regards the commitment to a sustainable coherent development policy and to a clear increase in development expenditure, which is a very important part of this development policy. As the Republic of Austria, we will still be very demanding that we make our fair contribution to the sustainability development goals, which, when decided by the United Nations in September, will encroach on the goals of the world by 2030. What is now urgently to be done is simply to refer to the Government Convention. The level plan towards 0.7 percent of gross national product should be legally secured, because we see, especially in bilateral designable resources, that, if they are discretionary expenditure, they are always reduced first and fastest. This is an overall strategy of the Federal Government. It is about increasing the foreign disaster fund from €5 million to €20 million. Unfortunately, I have not been able to carry out any activities from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The only thing I perceive with regard to EZA is a little bit like child-moving. Now it is clear that the Federal Chancellor, the Deputy Chancellor, the Finance Minister, is all behind it.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-04-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e6764	Excuse me, Mrs Deputies! You want to make another request. You only have more than 60 seconds of remaining speaking time. I just wanted to draw your attention to it. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-04-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e6779	Thank you many times, Mr President. I think the Foreign Minister should now prove courage. We will, of course, also support him as a Parliament in implementing the government programme in its area of responsibility. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am now submitting the motion tabled in the light of the situation of refugees: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-04-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e6856	The motion for a resolution tabled is sufficiently supported, properly implemented and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-04-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e6932	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Vavrik. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-04-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e6953	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Dear Members of the Federal Government! High house! Dear fellow citizens and fellow citizens! The human tragedies that have taken place in the Mediterranean in the last few weeks and which continue to happen every day – because people have also drowned this weekend – have deeply affected us, yes, even ashamed, at least some of us. So we were sitting in this plenary room exactly ten days ago and held a minute's silence on the subject. We have expressed our horror. We urged the government to finally take action. And yet: Almost as consterning as the catastrophe itself, which is so to speak at the pace of time in front of our eyes, are the half-heartedness, cynicism and the hypocrisy with which we approach the refugee drama. Today, many of us complain that the decision of the Heads of State or Government, which met on the day after this last meeting, is not enough – rightly. In particular, the most urgent task, namely the restoration of the Mare Nostrum programme, is far too short. However, we MEPs do not have the right to criticise. Ladies and gentlemen on the right and left of the Socialist People's Party! I should like to remind you that we have tried NEOS to give the Chancellor on his way to Brussels the task of reintroducing this maritime emergency action. I should like to remind you of the wording: “The Federal Government is invited to work... for the establishment of a search and maritime emergency mission co-financed by all EU Member States, which is effective and financially adequate.” I do not know what was wrong with this request, but you, ladies and gentlemen, have rejected this request – so much about cynicism. After all, the tripled funding for Triton is progress – we see it that way – even if Triton is of course a Frontex deployment and works under a mandate of border protection. We believe that if the field of action could be extended, it would de facto result in a restoration of the Mare Nostrum program. Nevertheless, it is essential to define the mandate of Triton in a formal manner with regard to an extended field of application, as it does, by the way, also by the EU Parliament in its resolution on 29 October. It was called for by an overwhelming majority in April. Only in this way can it be ensured that the new de facto sea rescue program will not be shut down later or even shut down as then Mare Nostrum. That is why I would like to make another request today: [[Quoted print version removed]] I hope, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, that this time you will support the request accordingly, in accordance with the resolution adopted by your colleagues in the EU Parliament, in the sense of humanity which you have today more often stressed, in the sense of the responsibility to bear not only our government but also this House. The maritime rescue programme commands humanity. It saves life, but, of course, it does not offer a solution to the refugee problem alone. We therefore call for two more concrete steps as part of a comprehensive solution approach. The first is the implementation of a common European refugee and asylum policy. The key points of such a policy must in any case be taken into account: the abolition of Dublin III in favour of a fair distribution key for refugees to all EU Member States, taking into account the population, economic power and the refugees already admitted. Secondly, it is necessary to set up a Community asylum authority, for example by upgrading the European Asylum Support Office, the so-called European Asylum Support Office, of the EASO. The EASO should first be entrusted with the first reception of refugees until they are then allocated to the Member States according to the distribution key. In the long term, however, this authority should also examine the asylum applications itself. This would ensure that the qualification criteria and reception guidelines already in force, which have been adopted, are applied across Europe instead of the currently arbitrary admission and partly inhumane treatment depending on the state. I would therefore like to make a second request: Resolution by Dr Matthias Strolz, colleague on European solidarity in dealing with asylum seekers The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Government and in particular the Federal Minister for the Interior and the Federal Minister for Europe, Integration and External Affairs are invited to: to submit at EU level a proposal providing for a mechanism for the compulsory and fair distribution of quotas for asylum seekers across all EU Member States; and support all efforts to develop a common European asylum system for the purpose of harmonised and high standards in the field of asylum and the social support of asylum seekers within the framework of the European Union." But beyond these measures, of course, we must put the evil at the root. The current situation is particularly aggravated by the breakdown of the state authority in Libya and by the civil wars in Syria and Iraq. It should be clear to us that the huge gap of prosperity between Europe and Africa, poverty, uncertainty, conflict will not reduce the pressure of migration, on the contrary, it will still grow. The sad truth is that our populations will not declare themselves willing to absorb the huge wave of migration that is coming upon us. The consequences we have to conclude from this knowledge are not even higher walls, are not even closer controls, are not more stringent asylum procedures, but the consequence is a partnership program with Africa to create on the spot living conditions that do not force people there to leave everything behind – family, home, wealth, friends – in order to come to Europe. We're not naïve, that must happen! I have heard from you, Mr Bundeskanzler, that, in the context of economic developments, in the context of peacekeeping measures, this is also your goal, but one thing I must add – also in your direction, Mr Klubobmann Schieder – when you speak in a newspaper interview of the scandal, how small the EZA contributions of Austria are, I must remind you that the budget has been decided by this House, and it is of course a bit cheap to point to the government and say that it should work out the annual programme to achieve the 0.7 percent points. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] Apart from the fact that such requests have also been postponed by your group in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. The budget has been decided here, and a year ago, almost on the day, the Greens and we have put forward proposals in order not to cut down this EZA, but to increase it. You have voted this down, ladies and gentlemen on the right and on the left of the Socialist People's Party. You have voted down our request to increase the foreign disaster aid fund from €5 million to €20 million, and you have voted down our request not to cut Austria's contributions to the UNHCR – they have been shortened. The responsibility we bear is not only the responsibility of the Heads of Government, not only the responsibility of this government, but also the responsibility of this House. I am eager to vote on both requests. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-04-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e7102	Both motions for resolutions are sufficiently supported, properly put in place and are therefore under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-04-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e7243	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Huainigg. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-04-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e7264	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ministers and ministers! High house! How do the tractors work? – Editors of the magazine “Die Zeit” have tested it. On an Arab Facebook page they found the ad: Who wants from Libya to Italy? Below a telephone number and a picture with a refugee ship. They called and the offer was: $1,000 per man and nose. - When is the departure? - Tomorrow. Ladies and gentlemen, 50 million people worldwide are on the run. This business with the suffering and distress of the people is criminal and must be smashed. It is estimated that the tugs generate 7 billion dollars per year. You have to counter that! The opportunities Europe has to improve the situation in the countries of origin are small, we must admit that. A lever on this is, however, development cooperation, so to speak, that projects are encouraged to improve education and career opportunities. – It is also seen that if people in the country have prospects, if they can earn their living, they cannot go hungry or live in peace, they have no intention to escape. That is why it is important that we increase the funds for development work, as we have foreseen in the government programme, and implement the phase plan up to 0.7 percent. Development cooperation is, however, an overall task of the Federal Government, so it can only be solved overall. The ministries such as the Ministry of Social Affairs or the Ministry of Education or the Federal Chancellery also have the responsibility to participate if something is to arise here. The Austrian population shows solidarity with the refugees, and that is a good thing. But if solidarity is based only on compassion, it will not last long. It is therefore important, as proposed by the Minister of the Interior, to distribute refugees across Europe by quotas and also to implement the Life Saving initiative, as foreseen in the 10-point programme. My respect is the mayor of Lampedusa. It has found in an open letter that it is about human dignity and that people in Lampedusa are safeguarding and saving these human dignitys – and also safeguarding human dignity in Europe. In this context, I would also like to recall the words of President Fischer on the occasion of the State Act on 70 Years of Republic, which said that politics, democracy and our understanding of this depend on the universal value of human dignity. That is why I also appeal that we anchor the human dignity in the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-04-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e7316	Mr Kunasek came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-04-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e7337	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I think we agree on one thing, namely that it is human tragedy that is taking place in the Mediterranean, and refugees – hundreds of thousands, yes millions – are waiting to enter or flee to the “promised country”, so to speak, using a mass flight that will not only create human tragedies but, of course, also pose great challenges for Europe and Austria. [[Call the ÖVP:Steiermark!]] [[Call the ÖVP: A tragedy was your newspaper!]] If Mrs Bayr has already spoken to us at the speaker's desk today, which the UN also predicts, namely that we will have around 2 billion Africans in 2050 – young Africans – and, on the other hand, around 690 and 691 million elderly Europeans, I believe that this issue will be a very big topic of the future. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it has also been very clear today that solutions in this area cannot be different. [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek holds a panel with a graphic image of the different fields of application of “Mare Nostrum” and “Triton”.]] That is why I say quite openly: The Greens' approach, as presented by the Clubob woman Glavischnig, but also by Mr Korun, cannot be the solution, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Her policy of open gates, as she has been presented here today, is nothing but the invitation to the tractors or tow crime to carry out their activities, and is also encouraging this crime. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we have not only the moral duty to help people in need – and Austria has demonstrated in recent years and decades that it also fulfils this moral duty – we also have a moral duty when it comes to standing up for our Austrians and fighting for their rights. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I have missed this today in this debate over long distances. It is a pity that the Minister of the Interior is not here today, because many things in the field of asylum – I say quite consciously also: in the area of asylum chaos, which often prevails in Austria and especially in my homeland, the state of Styria – of course also goes on the cap of the Minister of the Interior. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, in many communities – in Styria and in other federal states – we have a situation where night and fog actions occur. I would like to remind you again and again of the example of Hospital am Semmering, because it shows most clearly how missing asylum policy looks, where, in the specific case, up to 300 asylum seekers are to be quantified in a village with about 198 inhabitants. Then politics marvels, and then above all, the Social Democrats are wondering here in the House, but also in Styria, when people say: No, we don't want this, we want to have a say, we want the mayor informed, we want the municipal council informed, and we don't want to be presented with complete facts. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I also say this from this speaker's point of view: The Freedom Party will not be banned in this area. And yes, we will also show some misdevelopments when it comes to crime. I know, ladies and gentlemen, that especially the Greens don't like to hear this, nor do many parts of social democracy like to hear it: Also, asylum seekers, refugees, asylum homes have certain threats and security risks, as we only heard from the Minister of the Interior and from her last week's Question Time, just a few weeks ago. We have had around 200 police missions in Styria and around asylum homes in a year and a half, and yes, ladies and gentlemen, we will not stop in this area not only showing the problems but also asking for solutions from the Minister of the Interior accordingly. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] As a Quasi-Grazer, I can say that, and there are also clear figures in this regard: Drug crime in Styria, Graz and in many urban areas of Austria is firmly in the hands of asylum seekers, asylum seekers, refugees. If we have experienced in autumn 2014 that 71 drug dealers have been arrested in the course of a razzia in Graz, and these 71 people are all asylum seekers or refugees under the Geneva Convention, then this is a problem that we have to take seriously, ladies and gentlemen, and not here can wipe off the table. [[Abg. Schwentner: Always in the Styria!]] We must take these fears and concerns seriously here, ladies and gentlemen. I also say quite openly from this speaker's mouth: I would have liked to see Mr Ehmann as a Quasi-Asyl expert coming to the speaker's desk today, because we see that associations with this asylum industry also make very good money and the association "Youth at Work" – Mr. Ehmann is Vice-President of this association in Styria – accommodates 160 asylum seekers. We know that around €27 million will be spent in the state of Styria for accommodation, and so you can understand why the SPÖ has no great interest in limiting the flows of refugees to Austria. [[President Ing. Hofer gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-04-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e7465	Mrs Windbüchler-Saussill has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-04-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e7486	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr Kunasek, I would like to give you this minute the sentence of Hannah Arendt, who says: “No one has the right to obey.” Regardless of whether we are in the election campaign, whether the political situation is the same: No one has the right to obey. [[Abg. Beautiful: political correctness!]] It is about protest and resistance, it is about the work of civil society, to save necessary solutions, actually people from the Mediterranean, to actually help people – men, women and children – and the commitment not only to be affected but also to shape politics. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: How many asylum seekers are allowed to join you?]] That's why this second is not about the Styrian election campaign, not about political Hickhack. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The decision of the Heads of State or Government to support the Ten Point Programme was also made quite clearly by this government behind me, and I would like to point out once again whether you are actually aware of what you have agreed to, namely that you do not actually decide and support maritime emergency, but merely to continue the operation “Triton”, a systematic confiscation and destruction of the boats of lockers in the Mediterranean. Europol, Frontex, EASO and Eurojust will now work together regularly. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, these are large organisations that can be expected to work together now, and this is also a necessity of the European Union. It is a matter of ensuring that Member States are able to record fingerprints of all migrants, that only in emergency situations are actually examined, what the distribution of refugees looks like, and that a resettlement of refugees, a so-called resettlement, is also installed. Mr Chancellor, you also agreed that refugees should be returned with the support of development cooperation. In point ‘l’ reads: including development cooperation to promote readmission. . This means that Europe's development cooperation will be aimed at effectively returning refugees, and this will be done with the funds of development cooperation. At the same time, you say that EZA needs to be strengthened and the funds of development cooperation increased. It's not just cynical, but it's just wrong, backboneless policy that you're carrying. You just can't steal from the responsibility. Development cooperation is not a margin or orchid theme, but is now in fact a topic in all media. And I would like to show you this because it is always about what is actually happening with the financing of development cooperation. [[The speaker shows a graphic showing the expenditure of Austria for development cooperation.]] It looks like we only had 0.23 percent in 2004 and 0.52 percent of total gross national income in 2005. That went on until 2007. In 2008, it was 0.43 percent, and suddenly averaged 0.30 percent of gross national income. This has been the case since then: a constant shortfall in development cooperation, a shortfall in aid for the poorest of the poor, for countries actually affected, and at the same time the use of the funds of development cooperation for the return of refugees. I therefore make the following requests: [[Quoted print version removed]] Furthermore, when talking about development cooperation, I would also like to talk about humanitarian aid:
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-04-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e7587	The motions for resolutions are sufficiently supported, properly put in place and are therefore under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-04-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e7682	Next speaker: Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-04-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e7704	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen of the Government! Dear colleagues, listeners at the visitor gallery and in front of the televisions! This sad subject has already been discussed very widely today, including the criminal tugs, which deposit up to $5,000 per refugee – I think that is the most fatal thing at all. Why is that not prevented? In today's technical possibilities, which go to the use of drones, it would be, I think, a simple one to put on there, and then turn off the basic evil once – because that is the basic evil. It's nice to keep a minute's silence in this house to this great tragic accident with 900 dead, but we know thousands of fates. They will not be silent. Who last saw the document knows: If a manoeuvrable ship is allowed to start three times within days and is sent out again and again, because somewhere will the nutshell already land, then it is simply tragic and significant. It almost looks as if there were governments or continents interested in exporting problems. I say this in all sadness because we are talking about human life here. It was all raised, from humanitarian aid to quota arrangements, but I think these are just the emergency measures of a misguided policy. Instead, the basic problems should be dealt with. I can continue with Mr Dietrich and Mrs Korun, who also presented our way of life as part of this problem. Unfortunately, Minister Rupprechter has already left – he probably booked the next trip to China. I think these are the problems: what is being exported, imported and traded in this market alongside industrial goods – “traded” – is said today, of course, that foods, cereals are traded some 55 times on the trade fairs that are speculated. This kills any producing agriculture, whether in Austria, Egypt or China. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] We have to say that with all the clarity. Mrs. Korun, I have read the book “So Is Hungered” by author Petra Ramsauer – a very significant book. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about ‘cash drops’ in Egypt. This means nothing but that the fair trade roses for Holland are grown there. You don't give the poor people seeds there – because then they could eat something or take something off – but you give them stinging roses so that they are delivered brutally, and we Europeans support this system. Mrs Korun spoke about the fishing industry. I was there on the weekend at two openings. These were beautiful openings, but what was offered there to seafood, to shells, to the most diverse seafood from the most brutal aquaculture, that has got to do with trade, but nothing at all with health. We don't even talk about what's going on with vegetables. We currently have Egyptian organic potatoes on the market and have the best Austrian quality in the cellars. We need to know what our current consumer behaviour is for these poor people, for whom those affected, and it is embarrassing that Chinese farmers complain about the cheap imports from Europe and say that their lives are at risk. So please: In addition to the humanitarian measures, we should rethink our thinking and actions daily – I thought, too. May. It's nice to have commemorative marches on the day of work, but the same happens in Austria too, and that's why it's so bad that Minister Rupprechter is no longer here. If we close 15 000 farms a year, then the 50,000 unemployed we produce are also in Austria, and then we lament the situation that rural areas are being diluted, that economic power is gone, and as it was today: There is an hour of waiting in Linz because all Vöcklabruckers have to commute and go to Linz to work. These sad tragedies are caused by our actions. Every day we're fellow perpetrators. Let's not hold off nice commemorative minutes here, but let's stand over it and also confess our own guilt. I think that would be very important. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I should like to conclude by reminding colleagues Ertlschweiger, who have rightly mentioned this puzzle with the many parts, which as a whole, I believe are important measures and an important remedy. We are considering where we can be credible in the area of daily trade, in the field of daily consumption, but especially in the field of daily political work, so that we can finally be effectively remedied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-04-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e7776	Mr Dr. Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-04-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e7797	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Dear Members on the Government Bank! If you look at this historically, you have to say that the European Union has used the last decades essentially to protect yourself from unwanted migration, and, vice versa, has done nothing or very little to save people who have to flee on ships and suffer disaster there. What we have done – this is seen by looking at other areas of asylum at European level: We have made harmonizations which are partly very useful, for example, in the reception directive, and we see that we have European quality standards in the field of asylum. Now, after these terrible scenes that have taken place in the Mediterranean and which have been taking place in recent years, of course, we are all very concerned, suggest at least a lot of active participation and try to reintroduce new ideas and develop new proposals for solutions. I think it is very good that today we have heard from both the ÖVP and the SPÖ that we want to use even more for this European distribution key so that we can finally manage to introduce Europe-wide quotas. I am happy and happy, but I believe that this is only a very small step. The results of the Special Summit have already disappointed me very, very, very, because in turn we have only looked at how to prevent unwanted migration essentially, and have not focused on how to save human lives. In view of what has happened in the last few weeks and before in the Mediterranean, I find that basically only cynical. What we really need to do is to allow those who flee from home – because they have to flee because they are persecuted for political reasons, for whatever reason – to enter Austria legally. Mrs Pfurtscheller has already said that there was this possibility for 500 refugees. That only those who have the opportunity to enter legally, I think is very, very little. Mr. Federal Chancellor, you said that asylum is a human right. You're perfectly right. Mr Klubobmann Arbitrators have already said that he wants to create the possibility of legal entry. What we need for this is, among other things, the possibility of the embassy asyl that we should reintroduce the embassy. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] At the moment, it is true that those in need of protection generally do not have the opportunity to enter legally, and have to use any tractor, in order to have a chance at all to come to Europe and to claim their right to asylum. And instead of taking appropriate measures, we are taking responsibility again. Today we have heard from both the Federal Chancellor and Mrs. Mr. Muttonen: Well, there are now the maritime rescue measures, the “Triton” mission is also being expanded! – Mrs Klubobfrau Glavischlich has stood out here today and has shown a sign where the massive difference is quite clear – colleague Glavischnig shows it again now. [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek holds a panel with the highlighted area of application of “Mare Nostrum” and “Triton”.]] Those who previously did not understand can certainly come to her and look at that, namely this enormous difference between “Triton ” and “Mare Nostrum”. That we hear here again and again: It's going to be extended now! and so on, and that this difference will not be seen, is completely incomprehensible and really no longer to stand, especially in view of the fact that so many people die in the Mediterranean and should actually be clear where it needs to be used. So they continue to argue that something is being increased and done anyway, but no one really looks at this difference. Obviously, no one has seen this before. They continue to stand out here and say: We do something anyway!, but obviously do not realize that this is far too little and will continue to die people, which in my opinion is simply unbearable! What we really need is a serious, genuine and financially well-appointed adequate sea rescue mission, namely a “Mare Nostrum II” – or whatever that means – so that we can finally allow all those who flee from Africa and wherever they flee the Mediterranean Sea to survive. But we should also do our homework in Austria. Next Thursday we will have a meeting of the Committee on the Interior on the subject of a change to the right of foreigners, which will also be rejected in this novel to finally shape the right of foreigners in such a way that it is simpler and more clear. No major problems have been addressed again. There will continue to be a shift of responsibility. We will continue to discuss whether and how the federal states fulfil their quotas instead of finally making it possible for us to take care of those who came to Austria in Austria because they had to flee from home. This foreign rights amendment does not contain anything in it as far as unaccompanied minor refugees are concerned. There is also a massive shale. That is, even there we have massive homework that we should do. However, the opposite is that those asylum seekers who do not get a suspensive effect should be released from basic care. Again, responsibility is being postponed, because obviously no one is thinking about what will happen to these asylum seekers. In other words, they will become homeless – and in Austria we have once again shifted responsibility. There are a lot of things that need to be done at European level. Some keywords have already fallen, but I think it's too little that's been thought of. But there are also a lot of things in this context that we should do in Austria and which would then have an impact on the European level. We finally needed effective access to the labour market for asylum seekers in Austria. [[Abg. Worm: Mr. colleague, the unemployment rate!]] We finally needed a uniform, clear and clear Austrian asylum and foreign law. We finally needed the basic provision of federal competence so that we would at last no longer have this inconceivable shift of responsibility between the federal states. Finally, we need to increase the day-to-day rates in basic care so that all asylum seekers in Austria can receive a suitable accommodation. We finally needed uniform standards on basic supply. We would finally have to send to minor refugees those days that also have Austrian children. We must finally accommodate minor refugees in child and youth assistance so that they receive the same care as Austrian children and young people. And what we finally have to do: Resettlement programmes together with UNHCR, and therefore I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] To really improve something, you should agree to these requests. They could also agree with the Greens' requests that have been submitted today. On Thursday in the Committee on the Interior, you could change these tightenings, which are planned under the asylum and foreign law, and do something meaningful with that. And what I really hope is that at last lip confessions will end and not just small-scale actions, but that we will finally be able to do so much at both European and Austrian level, that this mass death in the Mediterranean will finally be stopped and that we will finally allow all the people who have to flee their homes because they are being persecuted there to survive their escape. After that, they should be able to use a human right – yes, Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, you are perfectly right – namely to be able to apply for asylum.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-04-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e7877	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. The motions for resolutions are sufficiently supported and are therefore under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording:
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-04-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e7987	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues on Mare Nostrum II as a European maritime emergency rescue. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members Ertlschweiger, ladies and gentlemen, on 'Fight against tow crime'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Arbitrators, Dr. Lopatka, colleagues on EU search and maritime emergency programmes and other measures to prevent new deaths in the Mediterranean. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is accepted by the majority. (E 78.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Scherak, ladies and gentlemen, on the establishment of an effective and financially adequate search and rescue mission in the Mediterranean. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Strolz, colleagues on European solidarity in dealing with asylum seekers. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Glawischnig-Piesczek, ladies and gentlemen, on the stage plan for increasing the EZA budget. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, ladies and gentlemen, on the immediate increase in humanitarian aid. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Scherak, ladies and gentlemen, on the position of an asylum application in a foreign office. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Scherak, colleagues on a regular resettlement programme for Austria and the EU. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is rejected. The agenda is exhausted. [[17:57:53]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2015-05-04-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00072_d8e8125	I am still announcing that in today's session, the self-employed applications were tabled by 1129/A(gE) to 1135/A(E). Question No 4858/J to 4859/J has also been received. The next meeting of the National Council, held on Wednesday, 20. May 2015, 9 a.m., is envisaged, will be convened in writing. This meeting is closed.
