ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e9673	Ladies and gentlemen, I will open the 89. Meeting of the National Council. [[11:03:37]] Meeting of the National Council at an extraordinary meeting 2015
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e9698	The President of the Federal Republic of Germany has the National Council with resolution of 26. In accordance with Article 28(1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 28(2) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act on the basis of a request from more than one third of the members of the National Council for an extraordinary meeting of the XXV. This is the first time we have been able to reach agreement on this subject. The unreaded parts of the Official Protocol of 88. Meeting of 17 March 1990 In July 2015, the Parliament's management remained inconvenient and undisputed. As an obstacle to today's meeting, MEPs are Muchitsch, Schopf, Grillitsch, Himmelbauer, Höfinger, Jank, Däddel, Jarmer, Mückstein, Pilz, Pirklhuber, Willi, Hackl, Jannach, Kickl, Lauch and Neubauer. [[11:03:50]] The term of office shall be replaced by the
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e9730	The Federal Electoral Authority has received the notification that Mr. Ing. May. Hubert Kuzdas waived his mandate. [[11:04:34]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e9754	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e9985	I also announce that this meeting will be broadcast live from ORF 2 to 1 p.m. and from ORF III in full length. [[11:04:37]] Ceremony on the occasion of the death of 71 refugees
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e10006	Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Members of the Austrian Federal Government! Dear Members of the Austrian National Council! Ladies and gentlemen! 71 people in need of help – men, women and four children – have lost their lives together in a cooling transporter in the most painful and terrible way. Like many other thousands of refugees, they sought protection, protection from war and persecution. Their path did not end in the Mediterranean, he led them to Burgenland, to Austria, in the middle of Europe. But these people never reached a safe port. When they were discovered last Thursday in a pan bay on the A4, they were long dead, helplessly suffocated, and simply turned off from unscrupulous tugs at the roadside. Such painful deaths of refugees are hardly palpable with human understanding. The terrible discovery of the last week has brought the Mediterranean closer to Austria and makes it clear in the approach what life hazards people face in the absence of alternatives to escape. All of this has caused all of us deep concern. What fears must these people have had on the run from the killer gangs of the IS terror to hand over criminal torso bands in order to save their own naked lives? What barbarism takes place in front of the eyes of the world public? – A humanitarian disaster without any equal, which is seriously testing our democratic societies. Because this unworthy tragedy is which has taken place in the heart of Europe, but also makes it particularly clear to us the challenges of European asylum policy. It is a loud call to join forces in Europe, but also within Austria. We all take responsibility together! In this difficult situation, let us show humanity and solidarity, as is our Austrian tradition, and how so many tirelessly committed citizens of our country have been living before for weeks and years. Ladies and gentlemen! Before today's special meeting will also offer us all the opportunity to debate solutions to the challenges of the refugee movements and bring them on a path, I would like to ask you to put a visible sign of distress and rise up from the squares for a minute in memory. [[Those present rise from their places and persist for some time in silent mourning.]] Thank you. [[Those present take their seats again.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we are going into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e10059	Consensus on the duration of the debate was reached between the members of the presidential conference. Accordingly, a day block time of 5 “Vienna hours” was set in accordance with § 57 para. 3 Z 2 of the Rules of Procedure agreed to give the following speaking times: SPÖ and ÖVP per 68 minutes, FPÖ 63 minutes, Green 53 minutes as well as NEOS and Stronach each 28 minutes. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall limit the speaking time of those Members who do not belong to a club to 5 minutes per debate. We shall now proceed to the vote on the speaking time just presented, and I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign in this regard. – This is unanimously accepted. [[11:09:50]] 1. Point Joint Declaration by the Federal Chancellor and the Deputy Chancellor pursuant to Article 19(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council on the situation of asylum
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e10099	Now we reach the 1st place. Agenda item. Following these statements, a debate will be held within the meaning of Article 81 of the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the request made by five Members. In this sense, I am the first President of the Federal Chancellor Faymann to give the floor to a statement. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e10129	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Members of the Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Austria will have to decide whether we will receive war refugees running around their lives with barbed wire or with human ordinary quarters. I am convinced that this country is strong enough to say: Austria will prove that every human life is worth something! We'll create these quarters. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP, Greens and NEOS as well as with representatives of the Stronach team.]] I know Austria has a number of tasks to do. It will be possible, when the tasks are to be done, but it will not be possible to do them with watchtowers within its own walls, against the other Member States of the European Union and our neighbours. It will only be possible to carry out these tasks together in Europe: at the external borders, to ensure that they are protected, but at these external borders, people who are fleeing, refugees of war, have the opportunity to work together in centres operated by the European Union – we cannot leave Greece or Italy – no, that is to work together – to seek asylum. Then, of course, the following question will be asked: Is it enough to say that those who have a right to asylum are a human right, then they are just where they arrive? – We know that it cannot be enough for people on the run to be accommodated only in those countries where they arrive. It is the only correct answer that, from my point of view, with much political persuasion, with pressure, yes, also with the threat of consequences, should be enforced to distribute these people who have a right to asylum in Europe so that they have the opportunity to be accommodated in the way it is worthy of human beings. This requires a mandatory quota. The Commission and the President of the Commission have clearly expressed their support for a mandatory quota. At a mandatory rate, a number of countries have spoken out which have little to show at the time when refugees are accommodated. However, it is not possible to push away on this issue and hope that all of this will pass quickly, but we must expect that, in a situation where war conflicts result in around 60 million people currently fleeing the world – we know very well that most of these people actually want to stay in their own region, but in some countries, some regions of the world, it is impossible for these people to stay there – that a common international policy on the question of decent life, the possibility of being able to live non-violent in these regions is a question of ending violence, but also economic conditions. There are many possibilities for the European Union, but we cannot promise that this international policy – with all the possibilities that would open up a UN mandate to support the introduction of protection zones, very concrete projects as European Union in these areas – is enough to say: Then nobody comes!, because if all of this works well, we don't have to prepare for anything anymore. We must expect that, despite this committed international policy, to eliminate the causes, to protect the external borders of the European Union, this task of fair distribution and thus also this key of the compulsory quota must help us to address this issue in Europe, which is ultimately a matter of human life. One day we will be measured by whether this Europe is strong enough or whether it is falling apart – as it has often been in history – in egoisms, in individual interests, and finally in unstoppable conflicts with one another. We, our generation, will have to prove whether we are able to address and resolve this issue of human protection. Many steps will need to be taken. We will act together here as a government. We will also be dealing with direct neighbours who say up to the hour they are on the It is not interested in the compulsory quota that they are not interested in this solidarity of solidarity, to join forces in the work of conviction and not to make it easy for us to say simply: That's what the Commission is supposed to do, or: You're supposed to do this to anyone else! - No, I don't. We will play an important role in this persuasion in this common Europe. The tractors must not succeed in destroying this common Europe by building walls with watchtowers everywhere! It must not come that far in this Europe! [[It was in favour of SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens, as well as Members of the NEOS.]] Fighting the tractors requires a legal possibility of entry. [[Complementary of the Abg. Kucharovich.]] Fighting the tractors requires very concrete measures, such as the joint targeted police control and arrest measures, but also tighter laws, when it comes to detention and ultimately the condemnation of tractors. Last month alone, the Minister of Justice has reported as vile attacks with arrests as last year. So we are doing a lot in this area, but if you, as Parliament, give us the legal framework here, even in the fight against tractors, against crime, yes to criminals, against murderers, as in the case that we have just addressed with the grief minute, we can show that we are also taking decisive and determined action there. Politically insisting on how seriously we feel, it is also to say that other countries too call for Austria's solidarity very often – when I think about the British who said that they want a catalogue of topics to be prepared to discuss their referendum. Austria should vote in the same way. There are more and more financial demands from other countries that are very useful to this common Europe, but they demand that we be solid. Finally, it is also about the big discussion, which begins – and of course already in advance – in 2018, how the financial framework in this Europe is being designed. We are net payers, we contribute more than we get back because we are convinced of this common Europe. With this right to play an active role in this Europe, we also call for all of us to participate in the issue of refugee and asylum and not to put ourselves on the side! [[It was in favour of SPÖ and ÖVP, as well as MEPs from Greens and NEOS.]] Let me thank all those who are currently in use – be it the powers of the executive, whether it be the forces of the NGOs, the Red Cross on the Caritas, the Volkshilfe and many more, where so many people are working around the clock. I would like to thank them sincerely. Once again, from this point of view, thank those who have created these 50,000 places and who are tirelessly active every day in this question to take this right of asylum seriously! [[It was in favour of SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens, as well as Members of the NEOS.]] I would therefore like to ask you to support the right of access which you have agreed by a majority politically and which is now also to be discussed. It would be best if we did not even need this right of entry, because the federal states fulfil their quota and comply with this obligation, in time and in 100 percent. Every percent that is missing means setting up tents somewhere – conditions, how we can only accept them as an emergency solution, but never as a permanent solution. Of course, full compliance with the housing obligation by municipalities and federal states would have an advantage, because it shows the strength of our federal system: on the ground, better with the citizens, the local authorities and the local authorities. It is important to know, to talk, to discuss, to be able to challenge something. Who else if not the local politicians of this country have this direct reference? If this fails, then we must have something in hand with this right of entry – that we do not lead each other or put the blame on the other – to have an instrument available to create additional quarters. That is why I would ask you to vote in this debate. It is important for us to show that in Austria, when people who have risked everything to flee a war, not barbed wire fences are built, but decent quarters are provided.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e10255	Thank you, Federal Chancellor. I give the floor to Mr Vice-Kanzler Mitterlehner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e10280	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Estimated government colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen! Whoever heard radio this morning will already have heard about the traffic reports: 30 people are on the highway. The speaker said that the topic of refugees is going to follow us longer. Who was in the memorial service yesterday and who also followed the events of the last days – 71 dead, found in Parndorf – who yesterday saw the pictures of the crowded trains, who are now also passing through Austria and confronting us at the Westbahnhof exactly the same pictures as in Macedonia, he probably noticed one thing: We cannot quote or limit a problem – in the direction of television images – elsewhere, we cannot hide away, the issue is there. We also need to address this issue and solve it. In this context, we are discussing today about intervention, about constitutional change, about strategies, about much more. But I think it is all the more important that, before we do this at all, we keep in mind what and above all who we are talking about. We are not talking about goods, we are not talking about material, we are not talking about people of first, second or third class, we are talking about the first point of the Declaration on Human Rights: Every human being is equal to right and dignity. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ, Greens and NEOS.]] That's why I think we have to have another access. I have read the following text of a party in my home community: We're supposed to take up people who are different, have a different religion and don't fit in with us. And that in diversity. – You know who writes this! I do not want to inflame a party-political discussion, but do you believe that this is a fair access? Do you think that's exactly what this equivalence takes on dignity and rights? Or to put it a little bit sharper: As part of the Upper Austrian country election campaign, I read “Asyldebtug – Free Flight”. Ladies and gentlemen, you have to distinguish: There will be cases – there will be exceptions in the form – in which someone comes to us who should not be here. That will be checked accordingly. But is this really the right thing to do, ladies and gentlemen? Also the term “economic refugee ” for someone who risks his life that suffocates in a car? And we say that he only wants to come to us to commit asylum fraud in order to cover up our social benefits. That is why we should do one thing: one, even what comes about in terms of appreciation, chooses an appreciative formulation also in today's discussion. Ladies and gentlemen, that is not to underestimate the fears and concerns of the Austrians. No, they're here. They fear their jobs, partly also for their safety. Ladies and gentlemen, what is politics for? Are we here to intensify the fear, or are we there to deal with the fear and solve the problems? – I think the answer to this question is obvious. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ, Greens and NEOS.]] Ladies and gentlemen, if you have followed the reports of the last few days, you will have noticed one thing – as in other topics: There is a fire of better knowledge, a fire of debt allocations, the search for the only reason. But believe me – no: You know! –: Unfortunately, the problem is more complex! The assignment to the United States of America that these would be due in their policy to all the conflicts is too simple. Faith You really are, as a single state, creating 50 geopolitical conflicts, such as the tribal conflicts in Libya, with 50 million refugees? It's a little too easy to say, we put all refugees on a plane and we send them to America. But don't say that this didn't come as a demand. A second, similar point when it says: The EU is to blame, the EU is doing too little; Greece has been given more attention in this context! – Ladies and gentlemen, “the EU” we are, together with Germany, with Sweden, with France et cetera. Others, however, have a different view of the speed of problem solutions. On Friday, I am with Mr Juncker, President of the Commission, and I will remind him – the Federal Chancellor does the same – that a little more dynamic will be necessary on this issue. It will not be enough if the EU Commissioner responsible for this will be present on 7 July. ==References====External links== Also a visit to Calais will not be enough, but there must be more dynamics towards problem solving, no question! [[Congratulations on ÖVP, SPÖ and Greens.]] They will somehow create the problem of the neck!, this is also only a part of the view, for we are equally required. And then comes the serious question: If you shouldn't have taken care of it, they didn't see the problem?! – Ladies and gentlemen, in every challenge, in every disaster, whether in the event of water or storm disasters, are there warnings before, but have you already experienced somewhere that, thanks to all warnings and preparations, the problem would have disappeared? - I think no. The Minister for the Interior has been pointing this out for a year, yes, for a year, but no one has responded enough. Why? – One has referred to this as “panikmache”, others have not seen the suffering pressure and the problems. And, honestly, it was: In recent months, there has been a quadruple of the speed of events in this context. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] – It would be appropriate for you to listen now. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] And that's why it's easier to express: Faith You really do that it helps to blame the Ministry of the Interior or even the Minister as a single person, so to speak, creating a third-party discount? On the contrary: I thank all the forces – from the NGOs, especially those of the police, but also of the courts – for their work, which goes beyond the limits of loadability. [[Congratulations on ÖVP, SPÖ and Greens.]] By the way, I have missed many yesterday's Mass in St. Stephen's Cathedral, which said that it is enough to die, but it's also said that it's enough of the debt allocations, we have to solve the problem together. That's how it's gonna work. So instead of panic, a common procedure! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, what is to be done? – I see the need for a double strategy. For one part, the Chancellor of the Federal Republic has really done it precisely, I see it as well: We can only solve this at the EU's external borders by setting up security zones there by already handling the procedures and thus withdrawing their business base from the tractors. That will be the future, but of course this will take some time. Of course, there is a need for quotas within the EU and certainly also common standards within Europe. Why? – If one divides the refugees into the EU and, for example, there are different standards in Estonia, then they will of course try to travel to Germany or Austria if they are already in Europe. Therefore, common standards. This will be the way of the future, but it will still require persuasion. On the other hand, the question is: What should we do as a housework, even now with the new legislative amendment? – We are expected to absorb 1.5 percent of the Austrian population of refugees. 1.5 percent! Ladies and gentlemen, these are 15 people per 1 000 citizens, according to Adam Rieese. 15 people! 15 people – I have to repeat it again, for, Mr. Strache: What and who are you afraid of? [[Call the FPÖ:To the government! Before you!]] I've got the impression that you're afraid of this. Such books, published by the top-ranking candidate in Upper Austria, contain contributions that threaten the alienation of Austria, that we are already in danger of being estranged by other ethnic groups, other religions. [[The speaker keeps a book up to date]] – I would like to say one thing to you: 1.5 percent are reasonable to us! 1.5 per cent as not acceptable is an insult to the humanitarian tradition. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ, Greens and NEOS.]] The Austrians have already solved more problems together. Think about the whole problem with Hungary! – Mr Commissioner, we were probably still poor enough to be solidarian. [[call to the FPÖ.]] Think of the Czech Republic! Think about the problems with Bosnia! We have solved them together, and we can also deal with this challenge together. But that also means a word on border controls – the Federal Chancellor has mentioned it –: It sounds like a placebo when you say there should be sharper border controls. Faith You really think that's gonna solve the problem? [[Abg. Höbart: Mr. Kurz has taken over our position! The Foreign Minister!]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: You do not know what the Foreign Minister is saying!]] – Mr Kurz said something else, that this is a reaction if we do not have a European solution. You probably can't differentiate that. We want a European solution. But we see Hungary in particular, how Hungary is doing: People who fight for their lives can't be stopped by barbed wire, probably also by shots. You can't lock out distress and misery! You have to solve the problem! [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ, Greens and NEOS.]] I therefore believe that what the Minister of the Interior is doing is exactly the right way. We need increased controls to take up tractors in order to end emergency situations, and we need the European solution. But of course we also need the second part, and the second part is the right of access, to which the corresponding text is also available today. Ladies and gentlemen! It has also been the talk about it in advance – Ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party, you care for this issue – we would therefore affect the communities, we would restrict them and more. It was, as it were, put forward as a project of the Federal Government with bad objectives. Ladies and gentlemen, keep in mind: We're doing this in the short term. We're not gonna do it in the long run. And keep in mind or read, for example, what the constitutional lawyer Bernd-Christian Funk says: “In the event of a disaster” civil protection in the federal states “has worked so far (...). On the other hand, in strongly politicalised and emotionalized handling of refugees (...) not. To this end, the asylum district fiasko shows a constitutional deficit. (...) The planned constitutional change in order to give the federal government an impact on potential refugee quarters in the countries is a first step." Constitutional Lawyer Heinz Mayer: The right of enforcement is “permissible”. “It is generally not a serious intervention into municipal autonomy, says Mayer: “So it’s certainly an intervention into community autonomy in a very specific point, in a narrow border.” But let the Constitution be allowed to do so." That is, ladies and gentlemen: The rule of law shall not be removed. But that's not the background either. I remember a country captain saying to me: Yeah, you really think we're doing that? Then we have the problem in every community! - And you put it on. This may well be comprehensible as a thought. I say to you: That's exactly what we must have. It is reasonable – and the communities do – that the subject should be addressed precisely to this small extent, 1.5 percent. No more, but no less. I have experienced it in my home community: When you describe what the problem is when you describe fate, people are ready to go along with it. Everyone is individually recognizable. And this is also vulnerable in the communities. Calculate again: 1.5 percent – that is about 100 000 people for Austria as a whole. That's reasonable for our country! We do not affect our prosperity at all! And that is why, ladies and gentlemen, we have another subject, and that is the refugee coordinator. Then we were told: Yes, can't the government? The government doesn't want to do that? Can't this be the Minister of the Interior? - That's not the point. He has the task of coordinating what is going on in the area, building procurement and others. He has the task of making contact with the NGOs – and this must be positive – and above all also to present best practice projects of the communities and to provide a platform. But that's not crucial at all. What is crucial? – The signal to civil society that we are taking on the task! And that this happens, that this is successful, see You, for example, where? In Alpbach. Alpbach deals with our future. Alpbach is the country or place where thinkers appear. [[Rejoicing and interlocutors with representatives of the FPÖ.]] – Yes, my God, you rejoice over “land. ” This is a Lapsus Linguae. I know you're gonna hang out on that for a long time. Take “gross” and “net”, then you have to do too! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with ÖVP and SPÖ as well as with Green MEPs.]] Again: Alpbach is a place in Tyrol, where one deals with our future at the expert level and at the other level. And there you see – thank you, Alpbach! –: One has recognized that the topic of refugees is a topic of the future, and one only solves it together. Finally, ladies and gentlemen: We have to prove here and now, and in all these days, whether we can discuss a subject differently, whether we have success together – or whether we fail together. We've got it in our hands together.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e10444	Thank you, Mr. Vice-Chancellor. We are going into the debate on the two declarations. The speaking times are known to you, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Klubobmann was the first to speak. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e10474	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! For good reason, we voted against the timetable for the right of asylum throughput: The fact that the government is trying to solve housing problems through a constitutional change and thus a disarmament of the countries and communities is, in our view, a cause of concern for democracy and also federalism. This is your access to make constitutional changes, namely the intervention into autonomy rights. We believe that it would be the right approach to seek the conversation and common solutions with the communities and citizens – and not to go over them. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Finally, today's constitutional change has also taken place with the exception of parliamentary use, which is without the need to obtain opinions and without involving those concerned, without debate in a parliamentary committee and without hearing. [[Abg. Steinhauser: This is completely wrong, there is a committee!]] This is simply indisputable, because we do not have the parliamentary process just as we otherwise experience it when it changes constitutional laws in its entirety. [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I say clearly that we liberals are against this right of entry, even if it does not fit you. Yes, we have another democratic political position – and you can still notice so much with calls of call – because we are convinced that this is definitely the wrong way. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If the government, with the support of the Greens, believes that it now has to change the Constitution, then, in our opinion, it must, of course, take the view of the discussion, as well as other opinions. It was said to be 1.5 percent per municipality. You also have to hold on to it: Austria has received 1.5 million people since 1945 and has always shown itself helpful. Therefore, one should not pretend to be a small percentage. We have already shown ourselves helpful in the last decades – often up to the capacity limits. But if you try these 1.5 percent and pretend that no other problem in the area of integration has arisen in the last decades – keyword: Sins of integration – then, Mr Vice-Chancellor, you really did not understand the problems in Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is to reduce all those people who are confronted with these problems in our society as ridiculous or even as people who do not have to take them seriously, or as people who do not recognize the real problems, because one once again tries to explain from above how one has to think, then that is the wrong access. [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: I didn't do that!]] [[New interim remark by Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner.]] I therefore say: From our point of view, a referendum must be held on this subject, and we will request it today. Much has been done over and over again by the European Union. You have said today, both Mr Chancellor and you, Mr Vice-Chancellor, that the European Union needs solutions on the refugee issue, namely common solutions. I'll tell you: The European Union does not exist only since yesterday, but it has existed for a long time, it also has experts, it has constitutional services, even secret services, so it should not be done as if this process had arisen from today to tomorrow. This was foreseeable, and we are wondering why the European Union has failed in this way, that is, so dramatic. If we impose laws on ourselves – with Schengen borders, with European external borders – why do we fail so blatantly that border security is not real or does not work? This is reality, and you have to solve these problems, yes, you have to be prepared to admit mistakes and say: This European Union has failed with the Schengen external borders! Also Dublin II and Dublin III and other laws are not complied with by countries of the European Union. Ergo, you have the responsibility to finally respond for months, but what you have not done. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There is total inactivity, there are no border controls and no increase in executive and no federal army assistance. There you are sumptuous – in the event of a failure that you show yourself. To sit down and say: We need a European Union solution again!, although the failure has been clear and clear for months now, you do not detach from your obligation to assume responsibility in Austria and, if others fail, protect our borders and thus support your own people. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] No one seriously believes that it is now possible to prevent the crimes of tow bands and tow mafia. Of course, this business will continue. It is therefore important to combat this tow mafia, with the full hardness of the law – and, of course, with border control, as long as the safeguarding of the EU's external borders does not work, as long as the fact is that every day more than a thousand new attacks take place in Austria, that people flee to us, for whatever reason, whether persecuted in the sense of the Geneva Convention or from other Greens. The people who are persecuted in the Geneva Convention need our protection and also our help, these people are really the poorest of the poor who must lose their homes in the war regions and flee. These people have, of course, deserved our protection, and we have to ensure this by all means. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But to pretend that all those who come, exclusively in the sense of the Geneva Convention, are people who are persecuted, is unreasonable. Here the necessary differentiation is missing, there is manipulative. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Mandate you!]] And that's exactly what happens under the term "refugees." Everyone is presented as if they were on the run in the sense of the Geneva Convention. [[Abg. Lopatka: That's wrong!]] No, no, no, [[Abg. Lopatka: Sure!]] There are also people from economic considerations, people who are not threatened with body and life, who are not protected in the sense of the Geneva Convention – and with the failure we have at the external borders, with the non-existent border control, with the failure of the Federal Government, the door is opened here and the signal is set: Come, try it, come through the many safe countries of Europe, once you have managed it, over Greece, over Bulgaria, over Romania, over Hungary, sit there on trains, come to Austria as one of the favorite destinations or then continue to Germany or to Sweden! This is daily going and giving, and I can only say: Respect for all those who help in our society! Respect also for the executive who has to fight with an incredible human under-retirement and today no longer knows how to deal with the problem at all with more than a thousand attacks daily. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Hagen.]] In the end, the executive is only more concerned with administration and no longer has time for its actual task of fulfilling crime, crime prevention or crime investigation! You should talk to the executive officials in Austria – no matter what the federal state – then you will find out how desperate these officials are today and how they are partially abandoned. That's exactly what it's all about: We all have the responsibility to deal with this problem accordingly. We are all horrified at the incredible and inconceivable tragedy that cannot be understood, about how tow straps, how the tow Mafia people in trucks are being treated inhumanely, so that these people are cruelly suffocated. That's not possible for all of us. But it's crucial: What can we do so that this will not happen in the future, that people will not have to suffer such a painful death in the future, because this business continues to flourish? We need to think about how we can turn this off! These poor people have already been brought dead over the Austrian border to simply put them in a parking lot with us inhumanely. That is to be deeply regretful! This horrendous event also shows how urgent it is to take decisive action against the criminal towbands and their dirty business – and that, as long as the external borders do not work, rigorous, complete border controls in Austria are necessary. And we will only be able to create and achieve this together with an assistance of the federal army – in the interest of all the victims of the tow bands! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Of course, tugs are also potential murderers and must be treated and punished accordingly. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it is not a panic to point out the reality objectively; even if you do not like it. It is not a panic to condemn and condemn your inactivity on this issue because you do not want to act. They always talk to all possible bodies and try to push these problems into the responsibilities of others. Mr Faymann, you yourself have said that this asylum chaos – or as the Minister of the Interior has said: this mass immigration or mass immigration – is also the case. But: I don't see any boss, and I don't see any solution to this problem! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And then you need a coordinator because you fail yourself. So: If the government is setting up a coordinator on all issues where you have failed in recent years – family policy, security policy, labour market policy, economic policy – I wonder: What else do we need for, Mr Chancellor, Mr Vice-Chancellor and my honourable ladies and gentlemen at the Council of Ministers? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This, in turn, concerns the own area of responsibility, where one tries to shift away responsibility. Of course, it is right to create security and order in these regions. And of course you can't wipe out that NATO left this uncertainty there. And then you wonder that terrorism and chaos are ruling there?- Oh, my God! It is also the responsibility of NATO to intervene in what has been left there and to overcome these few tens of thousands of radical Islamists in order to restore security, protection and order in this region. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Then we have the responsibility to help on the ground, to provide medical assistance, to create infrastructure, also to set up reception centres, under the protection of the UN, and then we also have to demand the co-responsibility and solidarity of Iran, Saudi Arabia and Qatar, which is not yet recognizable. Of course, we also have our responsibility towards the refugees within the meaning of the Geneva Convention, yes, also to refugees with a Muslim background, but primarily to those with Christian and Jewish backgrounds, who still live in these war regions, have not come to Europe and are sometimes threatened with murder and death. That is, we have a responsibility, and we must demand this responsibility wherever possible. Where we ourselves have decision-making options, we must make the decisions ourselves. At the Austrian borders, at the increase of the executive, in the assistance of the German army, we have the competence! In this legal failure of the Schengen borders and the European Union and Dublin II and Dublin III, you cannot say that this would not be possible by law. On the contrary: It is clearly enshrined in the laws that every nation state has the right to take these steps in the event of failure! But that's not going to be done. At the Bilderberger conference, it was ready to secure the Bavarian-Austrian border for three days. What was the result? – Over 100 tugs were arrested and arrested in Bavaria. But when this conference was over, it was not possible at once to secure the protection of one's own population and finally to continue the fight against the towing mafia. That's surprising, too. And I say, It would be naïve – and is also naïve – to call all the people who now come to us standard as refugees within the meaning of the Geneva Convention, nor to where, in accordance with all legal procedures in recent years, we know that 60 per cent of the applicants have not received the right to asylum from independent Austrian courts. And that's why it's unreasonable not to differentiate. It is our responsibility to work out, review and register: Who's coming to Europe? Finally, we have to examine the proposals. Of course, one also has to ensure that these people are placed in the appropriate reception centres of human beings, but one also has to ensure that differentiation is carried out as quickly as possible, so that the signal – such as Australia, the USA or Canada – is also set: You can't stay with us for purely economic reasons, that would make our system horrendous! That's where we have a total responsibility. If you look at the situation, you realize that this year alone we have to count up to 80 000 – if not more – people coming to us and applying for asylum. This year we have about 70 000 newborn children in Austria. It is estimated that this is only the beginning of the flow of refugees who, of course, is always looking for the lowest path of resistance, where no border controls are taking place, and according to experts, it can be assumed that next year the number of future arrivals will be between 100 000 and 120 000 and will continue to increase if one fails to act. Like that in the case of limited resources, with limited possibilities, with all the helpfulness we have, with all the humanitarian responsibility that we have, should work if we are not prepared to say: There's a limit that you can handle!, I don't understand and can't understand a normal thinking person. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Then: Don't set a ceiling! They determine a flat-rate percentage of an overall number that could be infinite, of people who find the way to us. And that doesn't work! In this overall review of the situation, where you said that 60 million are on the run and another 150 million want to break up to us for economic reasons, the signal will continue: Whoever puts his foot on European soil is divided there! There is a very interesting video of the Federal Republic of Germany, a ministry responsible for asylum, in which for more than a year and a half in different, at least ten languages has even been very friendly about breaking up and coming to Germany for social and economic policy reasons. In this video, the Geneva Convention is not put to the fore! This also generates images that do not correspond to reality. When you see the video, you think: completely away from any reality! I therefore say: In view of this international migration, we must not be naïve. We must be careful to distinguish between genuinely persecuted people and those who come to us for economic reasons. And the forced quotas are not the right way. We therefore want to ensure, by means of direct democracy with a referendum, that this will not be possible in this form. We want to talk to the communities, because in the end this can only succeed in mutual consensus. That's exactly what it's all about. That's our approach. You may have a different opinion, but be so honest as to accept other opinions in democracy too! We have an opinion that is human, which is human, but which provides different approaches from yours. And then you also deal so fairly with the fact that you do not always try to “do away” dissidents, not take seriously the problems that people have as panics, but take them seriously once again! Take note of different approaches, and be ready to discuss them objectively!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e10721	Mr Brosz spoke in favour of an actual correction. Mr President, I know that you know the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e10745	Thank you, Madam President. – Mr Klubobmann Strache has claimed that it is planned to implement the Federal Constitutional Act on the accommodation and distribution of aliens in need of assistance and protection, the so-called right of entry, without committee sitting and without hearing in Parliament. That's wrong! Apparently even knowingly misrepresented! On the contrary, there has already been a clarification in the Presidency that there should be both a committee and a hearing. And now there is also a race, which has been signed by all club directors. I read it to him: "It is planned to conduct the deliberations on a Federal Constitutional Act on the accommodation and distribution of aliens in need of assistance and protection. A hearing shall also take place for this purpose.” This is signed by the club directors of SPÖ, ÖVP, Greens, Team Stronach and NEOS and at 14.46 a.m. on 25.8 a.m. by the club director of the FPÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e10791	Mr Klubobmann Mag is next spoken. Arbitrator. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e10812	That shows how useful it is to log things. Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, who are watching or following this meeting via the Internet! Policy – and especially parliamentary policy – is very often concerned with problem-solving, formulating laws, developing individual paragraphs. But it is also a question of being able to formulate the right laws with only one attitude that you have. I would therefore like to thank the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany and the chancellor for their communications today because they were supported by a fundamentally human attitude which I consider particularly important in this context and which must also be the guiding principle for future policy in this context. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Of course, not all people in need can be helped. And especially the international flows of refugees show that it is not possible to help everyone. But on the other hand, asylum, as stated in the Geneva Convention on Refugees, is a fundamental human right. And this is precisely what it is all about now: that the war refugees, who run away from war, persecution, murder and rape, also have this fundamental human right at their disposal. .................................................................................................. It is not about more and not less, but at least it is about continuing to respect human rights with us. The current situation looks like: Millions of people around the world are fleeing, fleeing from terror, from torture, from war, from misery, very often from safe death and, unfortunately, very often also into safe death, as we know, when we think of towing. There are inconceivable efforts and great dangers to these people. When you look at this, you have to ask yourself: How big must the danger have been at home, the persecution at home, going into the dangers of the escape, of the Mediterranean, of the hose boat? Then you can only imagine how terrible this situation is. However – and that is, I think, also very important –: Hurting hatred and fears without providing solutions is the wrong way! What is now required is action, namely that policy in Europe develops solutions and is particularly cautious and solution-oriented on this sensitive issue. The German Chancellor recently said this to the events. I think that should also be our motto here, because it is the right motto. At this point, I would like to remind you of yesterday's television pictures of the many people who are now fleeing from Hungary via Austria to Germany, and to point out the challenge that this has created, and in this context I would like to express my thanks to the many helpers who are continually taking over these tasks, including the many executive officials who are massively demanded on this question, the NGOs, but also the helpers yesterday at the Westbahnhof, the employees of the Austrian Federal Railways, who have tried not to make an even greater chaos out of this misery, but also to deal with it humanly, or also the Caritas, who was active on behalf of the city of Vienna there yesterday. I would also like to draw the following out, because often the small simple story tells the whole scope of this situation: It was also yesterday a Vienna countryman from the Danube City, from the 22nd century. District, Muna Duzdar, a former Federal Councillor, on site to help people with translation services and to give them the help and information they need. This is just an example of how many volunteers are trying to see that the suffering of those affected does not grow even more, and are trying to provide solutions to it. A warm thanks to all the people who are involved in this area. [[Congratulation with SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens]] What is also evident is that a European solution is not only necessary, but that it urgently needs common European answers. They're missing so much. The refugee tragedy, the flows of refugees are a problem that can be solved if all states in Europe help when all act together and if not countries such as the United Kingdom, Poland, the Baltic States and the like do not get out of this problem. It is therefore also necessary to make use of and policy-making for an EU-wide allocation rate that allows for a uniform solidarity division within the European Union. If a person fails to fulfil the EU quota, European solidarity will also be in the other direction, which leads to cash flows and net beneficiaries. I think this is absolutely correct and necessary in this context. Solidarity is not a one-way road in Europe either. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] At last, the fight against towing is also implemented as a common European objective. The death of refugees on the A4 shows the terrible conditions of escape. It cannot be that Mafia kings, who are standing at the end or at the beginning of this chain, deserve more than a golden nose in misery, hope, and sometimes regret the disappointed hope and death of people and beat profit from it. This requires a fight, a determined fight against the tow-in, a fight and a persecution of the backmen in this context, but also a European regulation that reintroduces Dublin. Because it turns out that the Dublin refugee agreement is unable to solve what it has done. We must reintroduce Dublin and also work on how people in the regions can get to legal asylum grounds and legal entry. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In Austria, this topic moves many people. And I understand that many people also ask themselves: What will happen to us?, How can we deal with this?, with those who ask themselves: How do we handle this?, at the same time also a wave of compassion developed and expressed. Yesterday, at a demonstration initiated by a lady over Facebook, 20 000 people in Vienna were spontaneously on their way to a humane, meaningful relationship with the refugees, just as the St. Stephen’s Cathedral was full of memorial service to the last place. This alone shows that this topic moves Austrians emotionally, but at the same time it also shows that many people in our country are also interested in solving this problem in a human way. Austria has solved such problems in the past. We are valued because of our solidarity and our humane dealings. Since 1945, for example, we have handled the Hungarian crisis perfectly with 180,000 people in our country in 1956, as well as the Prague Spring, when 160,000 people fled from Czechoslovakia to Austria in 1968, although in both cases Austria was much, much poorer than it is today. But it was also recently at the Bosnia-Herzegovina that Austria was able to accommodate 60,000 people. Now we are facing these challenges again, and we have to see that we create decent accommodation for people seeking protection, justly divided into Austria, all the federal states, as far as possible all districts and communities. This Constitutional Act for the fair division of asylum seekers is an important step. I would just like to sum up briefly: It is intended to ensure that decent and winter-like accommodation is provided quickly. The law will only be applied if the respective federal state does not comply independently with its quota, which it has voluntarily received. And the law also makes it clear that tents, homeless or non-winterly quarters cannot be included in the quota. The law only takes effect from 1. October, when it's supposed to come into force, or before? – Since the announcement of this law alone, the situation has improved significantly and relaxed. The federal states were able to provide 3 000 additional places by themselves. I would also like to point out to all those who criticise this law that it is initially set up as a temporary law, because it should also be possible for this very emergency situation in which we are now in. If we compare, from May to July, we have on average created 2,000 quarters every month, since August, since the announcement of 3,000 quarters per month. And there are also many who have been very weak in the quota since August, for example the state of Carinthia from 94 to 98 percent, Vorarlberg from 93 to 99 percent. On average, if you now Vienna and Niederöster- rich, the two federal states that meet the quota, are 97 percent of the countries. These figures are, of course, fragile because they can change again with future development. It is about cooperation between the Federal Government, countries, municipalities, the Ministry of the Interior, NGOs and aid organisations, as well as private initiatives and private accommodations. That is why I do not want to point out today those who do not fulfil the quota, who have not yet fulfilled their duties, but who are positive about what is happening in Austria. In Vienna, almost 11 000 refugees are accommodated, including 3,000 unaccompanied minors, young people, and they are so housed that the next step of integration, namely learning German, is already being taken. And we can assume that this is a good accommodation. It shows that if you are well accommodated, there is also a wave of helpfulness in the neighborhood. The initiative that pensioners home residents are now bake together with young people or women from refugee families also shows how this welcome culture is practiced and the exchange between the Austrian way of life, the Vienna way of life and the culture from the countries where the people come from. But I would also like to take an example, because always speaking of the big city, of a rural city. In Saalfelden in Salzburg, for example, during the Jazz Festival, during the concert last week people stood up and stood up for a humane refugee policy. It has also set up initiatives in the area that want to take care of people. This shows that if you are dealing positively with the subject, you are doing several things at the same time, namely creating accommodation, and at the same time taking the first step towards integration. The last point in the near future: We must also deal at European level and at the United Nations level with the causes of these refugee flows. The causes of war, murder and persecution must also be fought on the ground. This means that the United Nations must discuss at the earliest opportunity what a UN mandate is possible and necessary to give people a peaceful life perspective on the ground. Secondly, Financial and humanitarian support for the areas where the largest refugee flows are on the road. It is important to help create accommodation on the ground and to reduce the burden on these countries. It is only recently that the United Nations has reduced its funds for the refugees in Jordan and Turkey. I believe that the most imaginable way is to go, and I also call on the United Nations, the world community and the major United Nations players to take this step back. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP, Greens and NEOS.]] The fight against terrorism in the war zones, the fight against IS terrorism is certainly an important point. And if we are talking about dealing with those terrorists who are terrorizing our humanity, our civilization and our human co-existence, then we can only do that at the very least if we make this kind of humanity our policy line of action in our area. In this sense, I think that today's law, plus the motions for resolutions, is exactly the right step in this direction.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e10962	The next item is Mrs. Club Chairman Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e10983	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Honourable Members! The death of these 71 people, I think, has left us all very horrified, even because one cannot help but think about it: What happened to them before? What way might they have taken? They have escaped war and persecution and have already come to the bottom of the European Union, perhaps until Hungary or Austria. And what happens to you when you think about it as a mother? Am I going into such a truck with my child? What fear of death you must have managed before that you decide on such steps! This is the terrible one, and this shakes us again and again, the death of helpless people who are so desperate that they depend on such paths of escape. I am very glad that I have heard this more often today, and I have read it more often in the last few days than before that we must finally create legal entry opportunities for war refugees, otherwise that will continue. [[Congratulation with greens, SPÖ and NEOS.]] But it has caused something, I think, this proximity to a village we all know, to motorways that we all know. So the wave of helpfulness, which yesterday accompanied the trains from Vienna via St. Pölten, over Linz, over Salzburg, the water donations, the diapers, the baby food, this is something very beautiful, and it follows many traditions in many Austrian communities that have done a lot in recent years, together with the organizations, with the mayors, and we can be really proud of that. [[It was in favour of Greens, SPÖ and NEOS, as well as representatives of the ÖVP.]] I am not surprised that a political group in the House is opposed to this Federal Constitutional Act because it is a resistance that we note at many levels, in every community where refugees are to be accommodated. Even when it comes to children's refugees only when it comes to children who are alone, minor unaccompanied refugees, FPÖ is opposed. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Against what?]] I don't understand. I don't understand when you look into the faces of these families. Now the families are coming. It used to be the young men who tried to beat themselves, but now it's really the families with children. It is incomprehensible to me how one can talk about protecting borders here when it comes to protecting human lives. We want to protect human lives and not limit them! [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Of course, against such an intervention with a federal constitution law, one can call many reasons and say that it is difficult to do so in terms of competence. In this case, I believe that it is not a time for disputes of competence. It's cold at the latest in September, and I don't want to see homeless people housed in Traiskirchen or somewhere else in non-weather-resistant tents. That is why, in the second place, we Greens were ready to enter into negotiations here about decent accommodation of refugees, and I think the law can also be seen. It has become a very good solution. [[It is in favour of Greens, SPÖ and ÖVP, as well as Members of the NEOS.]] It is now also about a wake-up call, a reminder call also to European decision-makers, to European policy. It's a very big challenge. Angela Merkel said that very self-confidently. She said: The arrival of these refugees, these war refugees... – I would also like to question the word ‘refugee’. You're fleeing. But what has been experienced in Syria? I mean, hundreds of thousands of people have been murdered in these Assad prisons. We all know the reports. In part, they tortured children, shot them in their feet, and no longer nursed them. I don't need to tell anything about the IS anyway. When nine-year-old girls become enslaved, I mean, What are you doing other than fleeing? This is the most natural thing in the world that you want to get away from there. [[I should like to congratulate the Greens and SPÖ, ÖVP and NEOS representatives.]] If one escapes from it and then has such defence systems as this terrible fence in Hungary, with razor blades, if one looks at it and sees the parents wrap the children into wool covers so that they somehow spend them under the fence, then I can only say that such a facility is the personalized inhumanity of Europe. I do not want to see them in Europe anymore. - If you like it, that's your thing. I'm just telling you one thing: Hungary, especially Hungary, is part of Europe, and Hungary has benefited greatly from helpfulness. Hungary has experienced what it means to be behind an iron curtain. That such rates fall like those of the Hungarian Chancellor's Office: We will not be afraid to use waterthrowers and rubber bats against refugees!, shakes me. Have we learned nothing from history? Has Hungarian politics learned nothing from its history? [[I should like to congratulate the Greens and SPÖ and NEOS representatives.]] Have we forgotten in Europe that many countries in Europe have forgotten what it means to have an iron curtain where thousands of people have died? Have we forgotten that Europe knows what war means and that the European Union should actually be the opposite of it: a peaceful Union, a solidarity Union? Laurent Fabius, the French Foreign Minister, said: Hungary is a part of Europe, and Europe has values that are not respected by creating fences that would not even put them against animals. – I can support this by a hundred percent, and I would also like an Austrian Foreign Minister to say this in this clarity. [[I should like to congratulate the Greens and SPÖ and NEOS representatives.]] The decision we are now facing is to find at European level a solution to legal entry, and this also concerns those countries that obviously do not want to: Czech Republic with 140 asylum seekers, Poland with 1,200 asylum seekers, asylum seekers. I can't understand. So it's about: How can we make a solidarity decision here? I also support this if we work with incentives or links with promotions. Europe is a solidarity community, and it is also part of building up one's own history on it: The foundation is peace – and we all know what war meant in the last century – that it is also built on this foundation. I also support the Federal Government when it comes to this course, if it now supports Angela Merkel, to make proposals in this regard, and if it decides that there are legal entry opportunities for refugees, for refugees who have escaped, so that we do not have to experience such incidents that they have to trust themselves in people who obviously do not have a scruples. This is now your and our common task, but you will learn from us. I would like to make a few points to the law. It's September. Many people are also housed in schools, it is already a challenge for many federal states. I think we all want to, if there are refugees in Austria, that they are humanely accommodated. This law regulates minimum standards, regulates your own sleeping place. I don't want you to vote against it. Vote for it, because you can't be against having your own sleeping place, you can't be for homelessness in Traiskirchen! It just can't be. The mayors, the municipalities need to be informed. Every municipality, every district that is now engaged in this form, has no need for a replacement. It is also an incentive system to become really active itself in joining other communities, and that will happen. It is also important to give priority to non-profit organisations in caring for refugees. I think it is wrong that at the time I felt it was a wrong decision from the black and blue Federal Government to trust the profit-oriented company. I consider our Caritas, Diacony, our Samaritan League, our Red Cross to be the absolute professionals in this area, and I would have liked those to be included in the awarding of this provision as a priority. That's guaranteed by this law now, and I think that's a good solution. [[I should like to congratulate the Greens and SPÖ and NEOS representatives.]] In any case, it will contribute to normalization, including normalization of discussions. There are many localities who know this subject only from the media, many people who have never had direct contact with refugees. There's already the experience, the story behind people. Every single story is worth listening, every single story is the story of a human being. If you look at such things in the cinema, you can go out and say: It's just a movie. – But it’s not a movie! Every single one of these fates is very cruel reality, and we will be measured at that. I'm glad when my kids ask me: What did you do then? to be able to say we at least tried to do what we can. In this sense, I ask you once again to reconsider the rejection of this law and to take part that we can also guarantee decent accommodation to people in Austria who have escaped.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e11076	Mr Klubobmann Dr. Lopatka is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e11097	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, we are facing one of the biggest challenges facing the Second Republic. However, from this point of view I would also like to say to the Austrians: Don't be afraid! Austria has already met such challenges. In 1956, 180 000 people came from Hungary – You just mentioned Hungary – to us. In 1968 there were 162,000 people from Czechoslovakia and 90,000 from Bosnia-Herzegovina in the early 1990s, large flows of refugees. Even now thousands have crossed the border. In this year, there are still just over 40,000. Reinhold Mitterlehner referred to the Declaration of Human Rights, which took place on 10 June. Decision of the United Nations was adopted by the United Nations on December 1, 1948, and it cited the first sentence of Article 1: “All men are born free and equal in dignity and rights.” In the second sentence, it says: “They are gifted with reason and conscience” – hopefully!, I add – “and should meet in the spirit of fraternity.” In what spirit do we encounter the people who come to us from war areas, from Syria, Iraq or Afghanistan, who have no chance in their country at all to extend a semi-human existence? Article 3 of this Declaration states: “Everyone has the right to life” – actually a matter of course – “freedom and security of the person.” This right to life forces these people to come to us, or they have done so. We should see this when we have this debate. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of SPÖ and Greens.]] Yes, the willingness to help is great in the country. People help people. – Vice chancellor Mitterlehner has already addressed it. This isn't about one thing. It is about people like us, who we can sit here in Parliament today and take the floor. Young and old help Christians and humanists. And not to forget is the performance of those whose job it is to do their work. I am thinking, above all, of the police and of the head of the Interior, who has done almost overhuman work in recent months. Great respect, Hanni Mikl-Head, for your work! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Austria is not a divided country, and we must do everything we can to avoid seeing cracks here. Terrible word messages in social networks remind me of the darkest time in the last century. And even in election struggles, there are speeches that you don't really need. I know what it's about in election struggles. Of course, it is about being as successful as possible. But there should be no crossing of borders either. Klubobmann Strache, I'm already fundamentally different from you: I do not want Austria surrounded by a barbed wire, as you meant in the “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten”. [[The speaker shows a newspaper article.]] That's different! We don't want Austria fenced by a barbed wire! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Strache: Here you are the supporters of the Tow Mafia!]] This human dignity remains on the track. Clubobfrau Glavischnig has spoken about it. [[Abg. Strache: Tow mafia support!]] No, it's about the families that have escaped death, who also try to overcome this barbed wire with their children. You can't forget that! [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] This is the difference between a Christian Democratic Party and you: The dignity of man, every human being, is untouchable to us. This dignity is what we want to protect and defend, even against those forces that represent this dignity to the refugees. That's what it's all about. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: Then protect the Austrians from the tow mafia!]] What is optimistic about me here? – I am optimistic about the fact that the group of those who want to help is much, much bigger than the group that wants to drive a wick in our society with Hetze. I am optimistic about that in this difficult situation. Ladies and gentlemen, we need this helpfulness in the Austrian communities. This already works in many communities. But we also need a fair burden distribution within Austria. That is why I am firmly convinced that what we want with this Federal Constitutional Act, namely that everyone here will be stopped to make their contribution, will also be able to do in Austria. I spent the summer in my constituency in two dozen communities and spoke there with our mayors and their councils. 30 refugees in a local community with 2 000 inhabitants. That is quite appropriate and feasible. I didn't find any mayor who said: That's impossible! – Yes, refugees are a challenge, no doubt, especially when they arrive at us. What we're doing is whether they're going to be a chance, that depends on us. If we are able to integrate those who stay here – many continue, especially in the direction of Germany – then the funds used for German courses are used properly. Especially in the case of an ageing society, as we are, we can actually use these workers. In the care sector and in many other areas we can be grateful if people are there, who then care for Austrians. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] But what we need is a fair solution across Europe, and this must be fought at government level. It is the German Chancellor who is particularly courageous about this issue to support when it comes to all 28 EU Member States contributing. It can't be like this and on The duration is such that ten of the 28 Member States have 90 percent of asylum applications. That's not a good condition, we know. Yes, the load is great, but we also have to go right into the right lot worldwide. Ladies and gentlemen, in other regions the situation is far more dramatic: 3 million refugees from Afghanistan in Pakistan; 2 million refugees from Afghanistan in Iran; between 1.7 million and 2 million refugees in Turkey. We are far from these sizes in Europe. Throughout the European Union, 626 000 applications were submitted in 2014 – no more. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: We already have the year 2015!]] There have always been military conflicts in human history, and it is to be feared that such conflicts will continue in the future. And there have always been refugee flows. We must not close our eyes. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Darmann.]] Your simple answers, Mr Darmann, are not the right answers, and they are deeply inhumane from the result. We assume this responsibility, even a few weeks before elections at national level. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Darmann.]] And we need at European level what the European Union is characterized by. What the European Union has been doing so far has been the will to achieve both solidarity and the will to find a result in the compromise. If we cannot solve these questions at European level, then really there are very different fundamental questions. This must be known to all in the European Union, especially the Heads of Government. The Commission alone is not the question here, but at the end it is always the question: What are the Heads of Government doing about solidarity in order to reach a compromise here? We from the Austrian People's Party, under the leadership of the Deputy Chancellor, the Foreign Minister and above all the Minister of the Interior, have prepared an action plan for asylum, where we have clearly fixed our positions: Solidarity and assistance for war refugees, but, of course, a clear no to asylum abuse. And, of course, we're different here. The opposite of what was claimed by Klubobmann Strache, we do! Of course there are deportations. The search for a better life, for a job is no reason for asylum. That's what we're aware of. But helping refugees to survive is just as our duty. Second point: with full hardness against the tow mafia. – Therefore, there is today also this initiative proposal to achieve the necessary amplifications. Third point: It is very essential, and I hope that Turkey, together with the USA, can take a step on the Syrian border to get to these protection zones, where reception centres will be set up, where humanitarian aid will be provided on site, where people can stay in the immediate vicinity of their home country. The European Union must also be supportive. Even in Lebanon, where this small state has a huge burden to bear. Fourth point: strengthening the protection of the EU's external borders. Fifth point: a fair distribution of the burden within the European Union. The sixth point: The Constitutional Law is intended to make a significant contribution to ensuring a decent accommodation of these people through a fair distribution of the refugees of war within Austria. And a very essential point: From the first day on, those who stay with us must be aware that they must do everything they can to learn our language. And they must do more than those who are already here to make it possible to take a foothold on the labour market and to make a valuable contribution to our society here in Austria. Yes, what I said at the outset is aware of: We face a major challenge, we are only working together with a national action plan. The Minister of the Interior alone cannot handle this. We need the heads of state, we need the state governments, we need the mayors, we need the councils. And we need many, many volunteers who make their contribution. We from the Austrian People's Party want to be actively involved from the local level to the European level. I ask all of you here to cooperate in human solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e11240	Mr Klubobmann spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e11261	Madam President. Estimated government members! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear citizens at home, on the gallery, on the screens! We NEOS will take part in this Constitutional Act, this change in the Constitution, because we in Austria must quickly come to solutions, as we can provide decent accommodation to refugees, to asylum seekers. For this purpose, this law is appropriate and for this reason our consent is here. I find it disturbing that when something happens, we always get in the way. And this is also my criticism of you, Mr Bundeskanzler, of you, Mr Vice-Chancellor, to you, Mrs Innenminister. Yesterday at the summer talks, I heard your dedicated speeches in Parliament today. I can sign very, very much and think it's good that you get in the corridors, but of course that happens much too late. And my fear is also that it is purely reactive and a very erratic, punctual commitment. Since 2000, 25 000 people have died in the Mediterranean. Our bathtub, the Mediterranean, is the largest mass grave on this planet. This death has greatly accelerated in recent months. And then you slow down. Imagine, dying takes place every day at your doorstep and nobody looks at it – then death comes to you. And we got the first load of death – last Thursday. Where we make Late Night Shopping, 71 killed people drop out of the truck. I say, that's just the overture: They'll be in the street grave today, and they'll be in our front gardens tomorrow. That's quite clear, it won't stop. They come – dead or alive. And if you address the problems – including the Freedom Party – then I think that is important and right. We need to address the problems, and these are diverse. But the difference is what solutions we think are appropriate. Now to propagate the picture, to pull a barbed wire around Austria, I think it is a wrong solution. Because it's wrong in content because it's humanly wrong. But we have immense challenges waiting for us – immense, because this is just the vanguard that is coming here, and because this is only the eve of a modern-day international migration. We also need to speak openly and openly and honestly here, look things in the eye. If we say that we have done this before, at Hungary 1956, Czechoslovakia 1968, in the 1990s, then at the Balkan Wars, then the comparisons are not true. And we know that. It's a signal of hope that we can do a lot because we've done a lot. But we are facing very different issues here. The task we are waiting for is to deal with such refugee flows for years, because the 80 000 refugees are, of course, being followed by probably more refugees next year. We must be as honest as we are. In Lebanon – as large as Upper Austria – 1.5 million or 2 million refugees are refugees. Lebanon is, of course, on the edge of the collapse, because it is a very fragile political building. Let us imagine that Lebanon is collapsing tomorrow politically. What happens then? Where are these people going? - They don't disappear. A few thousand of them we can pack into a plastic sack – dead, died somewhere – bag, this problem is gone. There are millions of other problems waiting to come to those who are willing to risk their lives. And now the question is: What to do? I don't have the patent solutions for everything either. Only one thing is clear: Mr Bundeskanzler, Mrs Minister, Mr Vice-Chancellor, we must act more proactively, we cannot go beyond the problems. Proactive action means – Mr Lopatka has made it his word – of course, we need an agreed national action plan for Austria. We have already requested this in Parliament in June, and there is no agreement yet. And I'm asking you to start this tomorrow. Just as we've been working for a government representative for weeks – I think it's good that You have done this now – please start a national action plan tomorrow. The Faymann I government, Mr Bundeskanzler, has, I believe, always made very good experiences with national action plans. Why not in this question, where we feel, there are a lot of people who want to cooperate in solutions? There are already a lot of good experiences. Why don't we put this into a good project management and go into joint solutions? Why do we need that? – If we have the accommodations for these people who come, then the problems are not solved. It goes on: Which schools are they going to? How do we do this in education? It continues with linguistic support. How do we do that there? The labour market continues. – We have innumerable problems, which will result in us in the future. We don't have any answers to that. And we'll be back here when the next 71 bodies drop out of a truck when the next body is in the front garden. And in between, we won't do anything. – It can't be! We can't be serious! We must act proactively! The second proactive level must, of course, be the European level. I do not agree with Chancellor Merkel when she says the time is not yet ripe for a special summit. Yeah, what are we waiting for? A few thousand more dead? Is the time ripe then? So what do we need? If the British build any nuclear power plant, then the whole of the European Union gets involved, but if people die on our doorstep, is that not enough? I was just on the Mediterranean Sea and my children are on the Mediterranean – like the dead children who lie there every day. And there we cannot look at these dead children and say: Time is not yet ripe! We, of course, called on NEOS to be a priority for a common European policy a year and a half ago in the EU election campaign. We were the only ones back then. They laughed at us. And we have called for a European army. Of course, we need a European army. Why? – And here HC put his finger in a wound, you have to let him: Because we have installed Schengen, abandoned national borders and lost sovereignty over our territory. - That can't go well. We're a doorway. That can't go well. But that means – and then, of course, we have another solution other than the FPÖ, but I would like to thank you for addressing problems, even if you do not have viable solutions – we naturally need to establish reception centres at the border. But, Federal Chancellor, Mr Vice-Chancellor, you must also make it clear at the European Council meetings that we see this as a European responsibility and then have to bear it Europeanally. Yes, you did that – but only the last two weeks. It's been a long time for the last few years. We knew a year ago that 8 million refugees are on their way in Syria. Yeah, did we believe they weren't coming? 4 million of them are abroad. So it's all too late. And I expect you, Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, to be in the European Union with a vehemence, as it is appropriate for this subject to happen when people die. And I don't see that. [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: What did you say on this topic last year? Nothing!]] Last year we said on the subject that... [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: Nothing at all!]] Dear Reinhold Mitterlehner, in the European election campaign we have said NEOS as the only party, we must raise the issue of asylum to the European level because we need European solutions. That was clear. [[Calls to the Greens.]] The Greens may have said that too; then I think it is good. Thank you. Then they didn't hear us both. But here we have to deal with Vehemenz. I liked this yesterday, Mr Faymann, when you said that you had to talk to friends about Tacheles. We are putting a lot into the European Union, and we therefore also have the right to demand something. We have to be very clear on this corner. In conclusion: Start It is a process that is much broader than just addressing the question of an asylum quota and a common European asylum authority. Of course, we need this, but if we do not get into a determined foreign policy, if we still exist in three or five years of crisis spots such as Syria and say, well, perhaps Turkey and the Americans will have something to do with it if Europe as the largest economic power on this planet does not come into responsibility – and that is to say, to shape the corresponding structures, that is, to come to common structures in security, foreign and defence policy – then they will come to us to millions, dead or alive: over the stem wire fence of the FPÖ, through, and they will be dead in our gardens. Body will drop out of trucks, and we'll have a mass death here. [[Abg. Tamandl: Could you pay a little attention to the rhetoric!]] We will have a mass death, and we should look into these things. [[Abg. Fekter: You can't listen to them!]] [[Abg. Tamandl: That's what you give of yourself!]] I had this discussion, what is piety and what is not piety. It's useless to look out of here. The price of looking away is high. Since 2000, 25 000 people have died in or on their way to Europe. Nowhere in the world do so many people die as before our doorstep, so in non-war. They died in peace, but they did not die in peace. And that's our responsibility.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e11370	Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e11391	Ladies and gentlemen! Today, in the statements at the beginning of the meeting by Mr Bundeskanzler and Mr Vice-Chancellor, we heard very clear words and very clear confessions and against the background of the 71 dead who were found in us, dead refugees, murdered refugees, of course also with appropriate emotions and human movement. Mr Strolz, everything else would have been political and human, and I think that this border should also be respected and not subordinated to anyone. The Federal Chancellor has rightly pointed out that we will not be dissuading desperate people who want to save their naked lives and thus come to our border with barbed wire, but that it is our duty to make sure that they are housed in decent quarters, because asylum law is a human right, which Mr Vice-Chancellor has also emphasized very clearly. The task of apportioning and distributing these quarters is not easy, but – and this has also been referred to – a task that we can create. We've done more difficult tasks. We need European solutions, of course, but the solutions we expect from Europe must and do we also want to achieve and implement in our own country. This is, of course, about the fact that we have binding quotas in our own country and that this also needs to be enforced and implemented. That is why we are discussing the relevant law that exists today. If you say again and again – for example, Mr Strolz said this before – that we were not prepared, that is not the whole part of the story. I am proud to come from a city, from a state where we have been preparing for months and where we can say that we are many refugees, but we don't have a refugee problem. In Vienna the quota is fulfilled, it is overcrowded, in Vienna there is no tent, there is no large camp and refugees do not sleep on the street. This does not come from anywhere, it does not happen by itself, nor as a miracle, but it stands behind it, ladies and gentlemen, yes, colleagues from the FPÖ, the corresponding political will. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In Vienna will bring about this situation by working closely with NGOs, aid organisations and private initiatives and by working together in networking. In this context, let me also say a word about the situation in Traiskirchen. I think that in recent weeks we have seen very dramaticly that it was a wrong decision to give Traiskirchen into the hands of a private operator. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Traiskirchen needs to be run differently again, together with the aid organizations, the NGOs who have the appropriate know-how so that one can also rely on the corresponding volunteers and volunteers who would then perceive it with a different attitude. We have in Vienna the Erdberg care centre, which is also managed by a private operator on behalf of the Ministry of the Interior. The mayor of Vienna has already offered a few weeks ago to take over this service and to operate together with the NGOs, because they want to help everyone there – there are about 500 people accommodated – and because we find the situation there that we have 300 unbeggared young people, who are not only kept, who need not only a quarter, but also the care they need. And that's what the mayor of Vienna offered. We in Vienna can be proud that we have a mayor who, even in the situation of a hard election campaign, did not insist on receiving applause from all sides, but also makes a human, decent policy in this situation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Vienna has already taken over all unbeggared minor girls from Traiskirchen and is also ready to continue to do so. Vienna takes over all unaccompanied children from Traiskirchen when they are found. They're looking for them, and I'm hoping these kids will be found. Vienna has also offered to take over 150 families and 150 other unbeggared young people – in excess of the quota. Ladies and gentlemen, you see, it is not an easy task. We need political will, and I am very proud that in Vienna there is this corresponding political will on the part of our mayor and that this policy is made consistent and human.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e11473	The next item is Mr Klubobmann Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e11495	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear citizens! Madam President, you have today referred to this tragedy, which is inconceivable to all, but ultimately, after three years of suffering, it has also arrived in Austria. This tragedy, especially as regards the conflict in Syria, has accompanied us since 2012. And now it has arrived in Austria, and I will also say why it is. It's still got a background. But now to return to these refugees: They said these people fled and did not reach a safe port. That is not right, Madam President. That's not true. These people have reached a safe port, and this safe port is called Hungary. These people were in Hungary, they were safe and then got into a truck to come to Austria. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Please, this is cruel now!]] The following question must be asked: Why can a refugee, who is ultimately safe, pitch 70 others into a truck to come to Austria? Why does someone do that? Perhaps it is because Hungary does not carry out its tasks with such an anti-foreign policy and ultimately ‘relocate’ the problems to the neighbouring countries. Maybe it's because these people haven't seen any other chance at all. And if that's the case, I wonder why you don't report any criticism here. Why doesn't anyone talk about Hungary? [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Why is there no one talking about why these people have risen in these trucks to come from a safe country to another safe country? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wenninger.]] And here we are already at the heart of the problem. The problem is that refugees are not entitled to obtain asylum in Austria. In reality, only those refugees, as at the time in the Yugoslavia conflict, have the neighbours of us. All others are not entitled to it, because there is a right to protection, but there is no freedom of establishment. There is no right to establishment where the refugee would like it. That means, whenever the refugee comes to Hungary or elsewhere and then to Germany or Sweden or where else wants to go, the question must be asked: Can we accept this or do we have to accept it? And the question is easy to answer: No, no, no, It is not acceptable, because there are very simple rules. There is the Geneva Refugee Convention, which clearly says: The refugee has the right to protection, but he must register this protection requirement in the nearest country. That means, no matter where this Syrian refugee flees, when he arrives in a safe country, he has the duty to register under the Geneva Convention – and on which one is called – there. But that is not happening, and that is the problem. If you want to solve the problem here in Austria, do something that makes no sense at all. I would also like to give you an example: Imagine, a ship is leaked and water penetrates. They're distributing to the team of kubels to draw water out. It's not enough because the leak is getting bigger and bigger, and you're distributing even more bubble. It won't do anything. You have to take care of the leak. That's not what's going on. We don't care about the problem on the spot. They also now insist that we need protection zones. Yes, we need protection zones! But in reality they already exist on the spot. Now we are right back to the reason why the refugees are coming at all: These protection zones, these refugee camps, which exist all around Syria, have been financed and have not been partially financed for some time. That's the problem. They have been cut short by the UN, and now these people, who are in safety on the spot, are getting in the way because it is becoming unbearable in the camps. Instead of helping on-site instead of investing the money we spend here on-site to solve the problem on-site, we try to solve the problem here under the wrong conditions. And many people are wondering: For God's sake, why does the Federal Government try to solve the problem here if it is possible to solve it locally? This is quite easy to explain to you: The SPÖ and the Greens do this because they import voters with it. Finally, all who come are potential green or red voters. We know that from the surveys. – If they're here long enough, they'll become blue dials, because then they've already understood that this can't happen. [[Cheerfulness and applause at the FPÖ.]] And why does the ÖVP do it? – The ÖVP needs cheap workers in our beautiful country. That is also the reason why one goes over the population to do something that could be done much better in the countries of origin. It would have failed a lot! If you're so hot, tell me one. Explain to me why we need people to get in safety, the wide way across the Mediterranean or other routes in trucks and otherwise to get here if they want to be safe! For example, why can't these people find security in adjacent refugee camps or in protection zones to be built? Why not? Where's the problem? Explain this to me! No one could explain that in here. It's happening over the back door. And then you're so supersocial and you say we have to live solidarity. Did you know that there are 60 million refugees in the world? And more than 1 billion people – you have to let yourself be broken on the tongue – over 1 billion people have an asylum ground in Austria and Germany. Over 1 billion people live in so-called crisis regions. And if they could come here, they would get asylum – over 1 billion people! Now tell me how to do this! How does that work? We can only solve the problem on the spot. There's no other way! They come with humanity and with everything possible, and we need to make the way easier for them and perhaps make collection transports so that they come, and now, 1.5 percent, so to speak, lay the groundwork to extend the whole to 2 percent, 3 percent, 4 percent or 5 percent. Where's the border? Did one of you say here today about those who want the law? Minister, Federal Chancellor, where is the border? 3 per cent, 5 per cent of the population, 30 per cent of the population? Where's the border? [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: There is none!]] – That’s exactly the problem: If you don't solve the problem on site, there's no limit. And the better you organize the refugee situation here in Austria, the more will come. It's easy! [[Abg. Höbart: That's the way it is!]] What do you think why they do not want to stay in Hungary or Greece or Italy? - Because you're making it very difficult there. Now you can argue about whether this is fair and whether it is human. You can talk about it. But in the end, there is no limit. Once you open, there's no limit. And we can't take up 60 million or one billion people. This must be clear to everyone, including you from the ÖVP and the SPÖ. That's why: Let's solve the problem on the spot! Let's make protection zones! Let us support the protection zones that already exist with money! The money is set up there a hundred times better than here in any tent cities.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e11617	Next, Mr Amon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e11638	Madam President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! In my speech, Mr Lugar, I would have liked to see Wittgenstein, who said what we cannot talk about, not to mention it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of SPÖ and Greens.]] But of course there is freedom of speech in this House, and I do not now take the time to list all the contradictions of your speech here, because the overall situation is a lot too serious. [[Abg. Lugar: Where was there a contradiction? You don't think so!]] [[Abg. Stefan: I would have expected an objective replica on Lugar!]] I would like to start by expressing my highest regard – and this very consciously today – for our Mrs. Federal Minister for the Interior, how she carries out her task and responsibility in the fire of the better knowledge. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Otherwise, it can't be formulated. It is already remarkable how some criticism is partly open, partly even between the lines in terms of what to do with measures. And now that we are discussing a law here, which will enable the Federal Minister for the Interior in the future, in part chaotic conditions, as we have seen them – and it is no different to call them – to get under control, this law is also criticised. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a doubling thing that we should not let go through those who show them. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This Constitutional Law is not a law that wants to pass over it, but it is a law with a great sign to those who do not comply with agreements. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] Mrs Kuntzl, if you address the situation in Traiskirchen and, so to speak, blame the company for the conditions, then you did not listen closely to the NGOs you mentioned and, as you said, that they could do better. It was precisely those NGOs that said that they could not have solved this otherwise, Mrs Kuntzl. This criticism was a bit cheap, I would like to say, because the problem is simple and simple, that some countries have not fulfilled the quotas, and this has unfortunately led to these conditions. We are now discussing this Federal Constitutional Act, which allows the Federation to have a right of access to those areas which are actually at the disposal of the Federation if the quota is not fulfilled. It is a bit strange that the federal government itself should not be able to create such quarters in such a crisis situation in military barracks, police barracks or in real estate available to the federal government when it is necessary. No one really understood this, and therefore it is good that this bill is now under discussion, ladies and gentlemen. I believe it is also right that today's questioning of the Dublin rules has been criticised. I do not think it is a question of calling Dublin into question and not yet having a suitable replacement solution for it. If we question Dublin now, and this has happened in the last one, two days in a very massive form, then what we do not want is exactly what is happening. A debate then arises on questioning Schengen and, so to speak, re-establishing national borders. That's exactly what we don't want, that's exactly what doesn't make sense. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: That's the only solution anyway!]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, it is so important that the Dublin rules remain true as long as there is no suitable replacement. Klubobmann Strache has asked – he is not present, but I would like to address it anyway – why, since the European Union fails to do so. You should look at things in detail. Who, then, is the European Union and who has made what demands? The European Commission is in favour of a fair distribution of refugees. The European Parliament is in favour of a fair division of refugees among the European states. [[Abg. Podgorschek: When it comes to money, everyone is there!]] The problem here is some nation states, of which there are apparently too many who think as you do. The problem here is the return to the nation state and the reconstruction of borders. That's a wrong approach! It's a mistake you have to fight. [[Abg. Höbart: Millions are coming to Europe! How does that work? It's a barrel without a floor!]] But what is crucial – and I believe that is why the action plan we are presenting is correct and important – is that there is a protection of the European external borders, that there is a fair distribution to the inside, so that refugees can be treated decently and that their security is also ensured everywhere, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e11755	Next, Mr Magistrate. Stefan speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e11776	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the government bench, here in the hall and on the screens! A brief comment to Mr Amon: They have found that the European Union is to create quota schemes that are not complied with. – This is not a solution at all! If I do not discuss from the outset how many people can get under the conditions that are already in place, then quotas will not help either. If it goes into the infinite and if we speak of twenty million who can come under these conditions which are being discussed here, then quotas will not help at all. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] As you are talking about Dublin II and that it should not be dissolved or abolished: What's going on? – The Dublin II Regulation is simply not applied. And what happened yesterday is that you don't even check who's being forwarded. What's that? – A task of our rule of law and of the agreements we have reached. That's what you need to recognize, that's it. And you can't speak that up, my colleague, I assume that you see it as well as I do. At least if you say Dublin II is to be applied, then that is simply impossible what happened here and what happened yesterday. You just have to see that, and you have to say that honestly. This is not about questioning asylum law itself, it is not at all the point. On the contrary! It's about helping those who really need to be helped. Therefore, it is also differentiated – for good reason! – and you know very well that this is also seen in the population. It's just being differentiated. If it is found that 80 percent of those who come here are young men, the question is, why is that so? Why do the supposed women and children leave behind? As a family father, I could not imagine leaving my wife and my children under the conditions that are also described to us. Mrs Glawischnig spoke of nine-year-old girls being enslaved and so on. I won't leave the nine-year-old girl behind! It's unimaginable to me what's happening. It is therefore important to differentiate and say that people come here under what conditions. Do they come here to improve their lives? This is completely human, completely understandable, and I understand the despair of people. And they want to improve, so they call “Alemania” when they get on the trains. They want to improve, but this is not an asylum ground. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And if we want to help people, we have to meet this differentiation, which is a very essential point. And now on the procedure; I would like to say something very concrete about the law now. [[Abg. Heinzl: They come to us because they do not want to die! Is that clear to you? They don't want to die!]] - No one wants to die, I don't want to die either. I am quite right in giving you, I want to help anyone who is threatened with death, and that is why we also have asylum procedures. But if 80 percent, 70 percent of asylum seekers here... [[Abg. Heinzl: He says they want to improve it when they run away before death! That's incredible!]] You know very well that 70 percent of these applications are not approved. Do you want to accuse our independent courts that they want to drive people to death? Do you want to say that our independent courts want to kill 70 percent of asylum seekers? That's what you're saying! 27 percent and no longer the asylum seekers in Austria are Syrians. That is why we have procedures here in Austria. If you question this, well, then do it, then you say asylum procedures are inhuman. But you really have to say that loud. And now to the law itself and to the procedure: Mr Brosz has corrected the Klubobmann Strache here. In the process, one has to say: There are two ways to bring in such a law. One is a government template. In the case of a government template – this is not the case here – opinions would be obtained from the countries and from the municipalities. We do not want to do that, but there is an own-initiative proposal from Parliamentary parties, ÖVP, SPÖ and Greens. And there is now a committee on this – that must be quite formal – but there is no committee opinion. This means that there is no time limit in which the Federal Government, the Länder, the Communities and other institutions can express themselves. No committee opinion is made quite consciously! There is no committee opinion in a Federal Constitutional Act that intervenes in the distribution of competence and undermines federalism! We have criticised the fact that this is being done in a totally irresponsible form. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The Federal Government is apparently in panic, and the panic is now being lifted to the constitutional rank. [[Abg. Arbitrators:... half-hearted...!]] This is a fact: Panic in the Constitution! Let us address the various provisions: It is always said that municipalities should include a number of persons to be cared for, equivalent to 1.5 percent of their population. That's a guideline, because it's definitely in the law inside: ‘In any case, the number shall be 1.5% of the population’. “Sol” – that is, when you read the word “sol” in the law, you already know that it is not a mandatory provision. The next sentence says: ‘The Federal Government shall determine the existence of the need by means of a regulation.’ That means we can't see it here in Parliament anymore! No legislator can see it anymore! The increase in this percentage shall be adopted by Regulation. If we decide for this year the value of 1.5 per cent, this can already affect about 100 000 people. This corresponds quite exactly to what will be necessary in this year alone. Next year, this value can simply be raised to three percent and then to whatever. You have to tell people! That's just the beginning. It is expressly in the law inside, it is thus provided – explicitly provided! – the massive increase in this number. This would mean a burden on the communities and not on what is being precipitated to us today. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Next point: It can be accessed on its own properties. Today, the Klubobmann Schieder wrote in the “Wiener Zeitung” that only property can be accessed by the federal government. – That’s wrong, it’s different in the law, because it stands inside that such land that the covenant... [[Abg. Arbitrators: I didn't write it like that, but...!]] – That’s exactly what it says in today’s “Wiener Zeitung”. I looked at it extra because it surprised me that you formulated so inaccurately, but maybe you can still correct it afterwards. In fact, it is explicitly in the law that it is a matter of land, “which are available in the property of the federal government or of this one. ” “Available” means that I can rent everything, and then it is available to me. This enables me to do what I want in the congregation very well! So that's the next point. So please do not always make the claim, it is only about properties that are already in federal ownership! No, the covenant can rent properties at any time, then they are available to him, and then he can do anything. [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: No, you can also rent, of course!]] The next item concerns the maximum number: 450 persons can be taken up per property. I have not at all understood the meaning of this provision. [[Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek: Thought!]] It is not addressed how large a plot is. There are plots that are 3 square meters in size, and others that are 30,000 square meters in size. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] Nevertheless, we can accommodate 450 persons “per property. ” There is therefore no reference value per square meter of surface or comparable – there is sometimes that a certain number of persons can be included depending on the residential area. [[Abg. Darmann: The main thing is not...!]] This “great” rule is found in a federal constitution law. It is noticed that panic is at work when such formulations are found in laws. So per property 450 people – or does anyone not know what a property is? Finally, a property often consists of several plots, even that must be taken into account. So if my property includes two properties, can I record 900 people? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek.]] I am sorry, but this law is so badly formulated formulated, that is really not to be grasped! Last point: How can the League get through? The law expressly states that no approvals, procedures or anything comparable are necessary. The Federation can do this. [[Abg. Glavisch-Piesczek: Incorrect!]] - No, that's exactly what it says inside. [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek:... and then a procedure at the bra!]] – No, the procedure at the bra will take place afterwards. [[Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek: It doesn't matter!]] In a first step, the Federal Government may decide that persons will be taken up, after which the County Head of State will be able to comment, but only in terms of fire protection, hygiene, safety of use and environmental compatibility, but not in terms of construction and spatial planning. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek.]] – The bra can comment on this, but in advance there is no authorisation procedure. [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: This is exactly the meaning of the law, otherwise we do not need it!]] [[Abg. Höbart:... passed over!]] This completely eliminates everything: federalism, the federal procedure, and also the legal procedure in the individual communities. The League can simply get through. It is harsh that the Constitution is so raped and that principles such as federalism are simply thrown over the heap. I really wonder what the communities say, what the mayors – including those who sit in the government parties – say that they are being so discredited that they are completely taken out of their hands. We're talking to people. I'm sure you do, too, I just don't understand how you can hide this. We know what is happening in this regard and what fears exist. You know exactly what events have already occurred and that the Austrians have a right to be protected as well. You have a right to be treated properly. Instead, the Constitution is trampled with feet. I can therefore only appeal: Do not throw the legal order overboard, just because you do not have the situation under control, because that does not make the situation better, but the legal order worse! Take the legislator – and thus yourself! – seriously, because panic is a bad counsellor, especially with federal constitutional laws!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e12077	Next, Mrs Gusenbauer-Jäger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e12098	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to take the opportunity to thank the sword miners from my community. They have made an exemplary contribution to the future reception of 50 asylum seekers. We have created the conditions that these asylum seekers can be admitted under decent conditions, in a container village. [[Call at the FPÖ:... questioned?]] If you're talking about this, The preparation process was important, and he succeeded. Firstly, we have pursued a good information policy. [[Abg. Lugar: Among the Socialists!]] – If you don’t believe it, it might have been necessary to get there somewhere! Our community and I as mayor have issued a newsletter. Then we made an information event that exceeded all expectations regarding the number of participants. Many questions, concerns and fears were raised at this event, but these could be answered by the representatives of the “Volkshilfe”, the police and the district headquarters. [[Abg. Hübner:... be convinced!]] [[Abg. Hübner: All convinces 100 percent!]] - We didn't have to do any persuasion. You won't believe it: The skeptics and opponents were hardly perceptible. [[Abg. Beautiful: everyone enthusiastic, yes, of course!]] People in the market community of Schwerberg have made their humanitarian attitude and willingness to help speak. Thank you again! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ, as well as the Deputies Meinl-Reisinger and Korun.]] As mayor, it is particularly important to me to explain the situation of the communities. [[Abg. Deimek: How many are now going to Swordberg...?]] – If you had been watching, would have She hears I said 50. [[Abg. Deimek: (keeping his mobile phone in height) There are still 50 missing!]] – Take better care! Mobile phone games may not be so suitable for that. [[Abg. Deimek: I just got your colleagues from the...!]] These successful examples, as they exist in many communities, should be processed in the media. This would be somewhat contrary to the skeptics, among whom you too should be part of the FPÖ. I know from a direct source – from fellow mayors and colleagues – that the reception of refugees takes place in a positive way and that integration works well. However, I appeal to the countries that too strict conditions for the reception of refugees may be restrictive and therefore the reception is slowed down a little. The municipalities and private initiatives will be grateful for their rapid action and will be able to implement the projects accordingly. But even more thanks will be the affected children, women and men who risked their lives on the flight to freedom. We owe them to take them up after their flight and to house them decently. It has already been said several times today: Asylum is not alms. Asylum is a human right. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] At this point, I would also like to thank the police who make their work excellent under sometimes very difficult conditions, although they sometimes reach the limits of the tolerable. – Thank you for the attention!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e12241	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Korun. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e12263	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear ladies and gentlemen on the visitor gallery and in front of the screens! I talked to a Syrian refugee last week and asked him what was the decisive moment for him and when he made the decision to flee Syria. He answered me: I didn't want to go into Assad's army and become a murderer who shots innocent people, nor did I want to be murdered. I think that's true for all of us. We all, I hope, do not want to be murderers or murderers. That's what it's all about. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hagen.]] ==References== September, the World Peace Day, and I am a citizen, but especially as a human being, grateful that I can and can live in peace. Very many people in Syria and Iraq do not have this happiness at present, and therefore the increasing number of asylums in recent years. Whoever has seen the pictures of the families that house hundreds at Budapest's station – unfortunately, one must call it – who yesterday saw the pictures of the trains with these desperate refugees – does not provide any refugee quarters for Hungary, by the way, does not even assign mass camps, which are simply and gripping in Budapest on the street and no accommodation, no food, simply nothing, at least not by the state, perhaps by committed citizens – who knows that we are experiencing historical days. We are experiencing in these historic days that the Dublin system – this unolidaric, unfair, non-functioning Dublin system – is collapsing all responsibility for refugees arriving in the EU to a few countries such as Italy, such as Greece or Malta. [[Abg. Lugar: That already makes sense!]] [[Abg. Lugar: Not at all, it just doesn't keep anyone on it!]] Angela Merkel and the German government have also recognized this, so they have said: It makes no sense to send Syrian refugees to the Dublin Convention and across the EU. That's why they said: Dublin does not work, and we are putting the Dublin system into operation at least temporarily. [[Complementary of the Abg. Gisela Worm.]] This example could and should be followed. Why has Dublin failed? – Because Dublin says an asylum seekers must stay there and pass through his asylum process, where he enters the EU for the first time. This is, as has been said, in most cases Italy, Greece, Malta or in some cases Spain, and these countries – at least we are in the fifth year of the Syria war – simply cannot be anymore! These countries cannot assume all responsibility for the EU. Ladies and gentlemen! Estimated citizens! It is high time, as a European Union – and the EU is all of us! – joint responsibility to build a solid EU-Asyl system, which does not say: Oh, let the Greeks, the Italians, do the Spanish, most of the rest of the countries can lean back and have nothing to do with the whole thing. In recent days, in view of the terrible death of 71 refugees, among them four children, there is a lot of talk about tugs. That these people are painfully suffocated that their lives are in a way and How we have ended, which we all most likely cannot imagine and do not want to imagine – not for ourselves or for our loved ones, not for our children, not for our siblings, not for our parents – that is not a unique tragedy, that is not an exception, but a follow-up and outflow of very concrete refugee defence policy, and this refugee defence policy should be immediately amended, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Cute: The FPÖ is in debt, that's still missing!]] [[Abg. Beautiful: Exactly, so that the party...!]] [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The tugs paid are a symptom of a sick EU asyl system that tries to ward off refugees at any cost. If you try to make the borders even closer, raise even more barbed wire, carry out even more controls, this will unfortunately lead to even higher tow prices, even more risky journeys and more refugee deaths. That's to be feared. [[Abg. Pretty: A trip must be as easy as possible, one million per year legal...!]] That is why legal routes to escape to the EU are needed so that people are no longer dependent on paid tugs, so that they can enter completely legally and seek protection here. People who have fled from expulsion and murder are welcome. Just as between 1938 and 1945 Austrian Jews, Roma and Sinti, homosexuals, Communists and Jehovah’s Witnesses were received in other countries, saved and welcomed. Refugees are welcome – refugees are welcome – from this point of view, from the High House, all refugees and all the people who support them! [[I should like to congratulate the Greens and SPÖ and NEOS representatives.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Solidarity is viable, and solidarity is provided by many citizens. I would like to thank all the people who have driven private to Traiskirchen in the last few weeks, brought water, brought food, brought baby diapers, hygiene items, and no longer watched this misery. [[Abg. Yes, yes!]] I would like to thank the hundreds of citizens who bought water and food yesterday in Linz, Salzburg, in Vienna and gave them to the refugees who were on their way from Hungary to Germany. I would like to thank you very much for the young people who yesterday gave an excellent tribute to the Legs have been placed with the distinctive name “Mensch been in Austria”. You said: We want to be human in Austria, we want human dignity to be observed by all people in Austria, we want refugees to be treated as human beings. To all of them a very warm thanks from this point of view, from our High House, from our Parliament. Solidarity is viable, which shows thousands and hundreds of thousands of citizens in Austria. A very warm thank you to all of them, and together we do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e12410	Mr Klubobmann Mag has to make an actual correction. On behalf of the PPE Group, I should like to thank the Commissioner for his - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e12434	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Mag. Stefan claimed that I had written in my comment in the “Wiener Zeitung” that only land owned by the federal government can be used. This is wrong, because I have, however you can read online, written in the “Wiener Zeitung” that by an instruction, property that is owned by the federal government can also be used. This is the impression that my colleague Stefan wanted to give – as if I were falsely claiming that it was exclusively property property – but it is about – and rightly so – that property that can be used or rented. That's what I wanted to see that corrected.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e12482	Mr Wöginger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e12504	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, the current situation with the refugees is certainly a huge challenge for our country, the Republic, the federal states, our communities and, of course, for the population. We are in Upper Austria shortly before the country election, and this issue is naturally becoming even more intense. We are talking to the citizens every day. [[Abg. Cute: What do they say?]] . Yes, I will tell you that, colleague. One thing has to be held here, of course. [[Abg. Lugar: What do the citizens say?]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] It does not bring us further, if here in addition insecured, to be honed, to spread falsehoods that do not vote, and the people are divided with this issue, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ and NEOS.]] This has not been earned by our people, nor by the refugees who have no basis for living at home. I would like once again to quote Mr Vice-Chancellor, who said today: Every human being is equal to right and dignity. We are talking here of no material, of no goods, and of no animals; there are people who are concerned. We are a Christian social party, and with us people are at the heart of it – who lives in Austria, but also the one who comes from Syria or Afghanistan or Iraq. This is also addressed to those, ladies and gentlemen, who have already carried crosses before themselves and have advertised with them, who have been here as “saviors of the evening land”. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] I am a Christian, I am so educated and I also live by these principles. But before the Lord God all people are still the same, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] There needs to be a policy with propriety and house mind, socially and surely, as the Upper Austrian People's Party has written in the asylum agenda, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Darmann: Where did ÖVP get lost?]] [[Interim calls at FPÖ and NEOS.]] I can quote a few points from this. It's also wrong that we say everyone should come. We distinguish exactly between refugees of war... [[Abg. Darmann: Your partyobmann said something else!]] – Mr Darmann, do not wake up and listen once! We distinguish between refugees of war and those who want to come for economic reasons. Our attitude is quite clear: War refugees are admitted, and for this we must also provide quarters. And those who want to come to us because they want to have a job or because they want a better life, but don't come from war zones, which we say quite clearly, ladies and gentlemen: [[Abg. Beautiful:... are recorded as well!]] We can't, we can't take these people now! – This is the position of the Austrian People’s Party on this subject. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course, this is a fair burden distribution within the European Union. [[Abg. Darmann: Your party leader Mitterlehner said something else!]] Much has been said about this today. I support the Federal Government – the Chancellor, the Deputy Chancellor and, above all, our Minister of the Interior – to a hundred percent when it comes to establishing an EU-wide fair and binding quota for all 28 countries, including with the same standards, ladies and gentlemen, because it will not help us if we have other social standards here in Austria than we have in Estonia or Bulgaria or in Romania. [[Abg. Cute: But how do the countries that don't want this come to pass...?]] All resources must be used up in this regard. I support the Federal Chancellor when he says, even as regards the EU financial framework and future negotiations in this area, that: Yes, these resources will also be needed to ensure fair and fair distribution. And: It is about protecting the EU's external borders, ladies and gentlemen. It has already been described today: We need these contact points, for example in Italy and in Greece, so that we can sort them right there and start the procedures. [[Abg. Lugar: “Sort”?]] [[Further calls.]] Then we save those who have an asylum status, unsafe transport routes, and we can send back those who have no asylum grounds. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the position of our party. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The third point is a consistent approach to towing. What happened in Burgenland a few days ago, I think, has already made all Austrians thinkful of it and also triggered a lot of damage. If one imagines that 71 people are transported in a refrigeration container first of all, second of all they have to go down there painfully, then we can't care about it, ladies and gentlemen! We must do everything and do everything we can to catch these tugs, so that they are, of course, also locked in so that the penalties are increased so that everything is done, including from our side, to counter this tow with all the consequence. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] This is inhumane, ladies and gentlemen, what is happening here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is why a proposal for an initiative is being tabled today, which provides for stricter measures to be taken. The last point I would like to address in connection with the asylum agenda is the stay in our country, in the federal states and also in our communities. This right of access must and will, in my opinion, remain the exception. Why? [[Abg. Steinbichler: If the mayor wants!]] – Because the municipalities are really trying to provide accommodation and quarters to the districts as well as the countries. Yes, Mr Steinbichler, you too could take up refugees! Maybe that wouldn't hurt you. Take a look at another topic too! You are a Member of this House, and this issue should not go far enough about you either. That's what you're saying! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have to make quarters available, and the communities are making an excellent contribution. I would like to thank all the mayors, the local representatives, but above all the local associations, especially the parishioners, the cultural associations, especially the Red Cross and the Caritas, where excellent work is being done, which leads to our refugee care and shelter. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, I would like to mention that 36 refugees have been accommodated in my home community – in Sigharting, in the middle of the Schärding district – for over half a year. They come from Syria, Afghanistan and Iraq. In fact, there are no problems with this accommodation. They are housed in a former inn and are cared for by the Caritas, the parish helps God be thanks. In fact, the population has more and more assumed refugees with the time, with the weeks they were there. They are peaceful and also friendly. They learn German once a week in our folk school, and they want to integrate. [[Abg. Höbart: Asylum law gives a right to stay on time!]] You want to integrate! Ladies and gentlemen, I also imagine a refugee shelter and a quarter accommodation: that we also provide those premises and buildings for war refugees who come from areas where they can no longer live because they were deprived of the livelihood. Ladies and gentlemen, there are countless examples, even at home, that this works from the principle and from the outset. That is why we must address the points raised to a solution that will end the issue, including the untruths, ladies and gentlemen. In Upper Austria, we even have to advertise in newspapers because untruths are constantly being spread. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] A refugee in basic care receives 5,50 € and not several hundred euros! They have a mobile phone because they've had it before, and it doesn't pay the country or the federal government either; it's the only source of information to their relatives. And they have a brand-jean on because the population has donated it, as well as the bike with which they travel in the community where they were accommodated. Stop that shit! Let us work together towards a solution to a great challenge, but let us remain human, ladies and gentlemen. That's our job.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e12757	Next, Mrs Mag. Meinl-Risinger to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e12778	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Values Federal Minister! Dear Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! “Let’s stay human”, I can join. However, I would like to welcome the first Tilouan – a recognised refugee from Syria since, I believe, two years. Welcome to the Austrian Parliament! [[towards gallery]] I'm excited about the stories it sounds like. [[Congratulations with NEOS, SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] About him we reach many stories, escape stories like this one I hold in my hands here, from Ilkhan. These stories reach us, and I believe that even if empathy alone cannot achieve solutions, empathy is a very essential thing in this matter. To be honest, of course, we also – and this must also be done by law – make no difference between refugees who have protection from persecution and economic refugees. But as for empathy in the face of the stories of escape, especially if there are stories below which it is only a coincidence that nothing happens in an overcrowded truck, I honestly see it as not particularly necessary to make such a pointed distinction here. I'd like to hand over to you this letter of escape. [[The speaker went to the FPÖ's series of seats and placed a document there.]] Maybe it helps and helps to make you have empathy. [[Congratulation with NEOS and Greens.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] I am pleased with today's law, we agree. But I have to say here – this criticism I cannot spare the Federal Government – that it is very late and that you have become very late. Matthias Strolz also pointed out that this situation – these thousands of people who are now coming to Austria, but not only to Austria – was foreseeable. In fact, last year we talked about the fact that war is in Syria and that the IS is on the rise. In view of this, there is neither in Austria nor at European level, which we very much regret, an asylum or migration strategy. I can't spare you this criticism. I can't spare you the criticism that, if you've gone to Traiskirchen and looked at it for weeks, Mr. Federal Chancellor, that was at a time when you didn't say anything about it and were more on the dive site, really was ashamed of Austria and that you said: In other questions, at large sporting events, at the Song Contest, this country is famous for what an organizational force puts it on its feet, and here I can and don't want to believe that this isn't going better! This is a management failure and, in my opinion, a total failure of the political system in Austria, starting with federalism, but also, of course, with regard to the management capabilities of the Federal Government. I would like to point this out in a concrete example. A subject that is especially dear to me as a family speaker is the unaccompanied minor refugees. I would point out that next week at school, of course, we have the great challenge of including these into the school system. It is our obligation to make our duty to provide a proper educational and training place. Electoral campaign may be, but in this respect I must join the praise to Vienna and to the mayor, who has indeed set a great deal on this issue. To say that must also be possible in the election campaign. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein:... worship! Isn't that embarrassing for you?]] But – that has already been said – you also feel that you will not be active until something has happened. Ladies and gentlemen, in Austria we have the responsibility and duty to protect children and young people from child welfare risks. That means making a risk explanation or taking care of it. We have the situation that alone in Traiskirchen there are 1,200 unaccompanied minor refugees. We know that about 700 dangerous reports have been made. We also know, however, that the district headquarters of Baden obviously do nothing and the head is in the sand. Neither has the staff been increased there – there are only three full-time equivalents for 1,200 unaccompanied minors – nor is one really active risk reports, one makes risk checks, one looks at what the situation is, and then one takes care of it. I also appeal to the Baden District Court in this respect, because this could also make a risk report. Then the care would pass to child and youth support providers. Then there would be the responsibility and the duty to take these children out of the homeless, out of this camp. I would also like to highlight the helplessness of this federal government, which is a final word. Some time ago, SOS Children's Village offered 100 places for unaccompanied minor refugees. Do you know what the Ministry of the Interior's answer was? – “Thank you very much, we will examine this.” That's what I'm asking myself, Mrs. Inner Minister: What's going to be You're checking? Are you checking if there are unaccompanied minor refugees? – Please drive to Traiskirchen: You're here. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Do you check if SOS Children's Village is able to accommodate these children? - I think that's a matter of course. We really have a situation where we can't talk about bureaucracy or anything else, but have to act and manage. I am glad that the first step has been taken today. But I hope for more activity! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e12855	Next word: Mr Wittmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e12878	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! If you want to deal with the matter at a purely factual level – not at an emotional level that tries to favour something here, which cannot happen – and if I hear from the FPÖ as the only proposal to meet the refugee crisis, that you make a fence around Austria, I have to say that this fence of ridiculousness is no longer exaggerable! [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] That country that has made a fence is Hungary, and it has the biggest problem. A mechanical barrier has not yet stopped anyone from crossing a border somewhere. I think this is a ridiculous proposal! If you put aside this ridiculous proposal and consider it objectively, there are three levels on which you have to deal with this problem. The first level is clearly the European level. I believe that it should be noted first that the Dublin rules are no longer working. One must invent a new system, one must negotiate a new system, and – the Chancellor has already said it – one must transfer a quota system to Europe, along with protection zones where the contact points are located. I don't think there's a way to go. It must be stated in this second that the Dublin rules are no longer effective. They are no longer in a position to solve this problem that concerns the European Union. This problem is one of the most important problems of the European Union! I can't try old rules to deal with this new situation when I know it's no longer regular. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Secondly, Protection zones would have to be created. These protection zones are essential in the run-up countries such as Greece and Italy. Thirdly, the European Union – and I believe this is a little too little in this debate – should also change foreign policy. It would be necessary to stabilise the neighbouring countries, even if they are separated by a sea such as the Mediterranean Sea. That's what I'm going to include Libya, Egypt and Syria. There must be more activity from the European Union. I also believe that it is right to put the countries that refuse a quota arrangement in the window financially to allow them to participate. The second level, however, is the national level. If I demand solidarity from the European Union, it must be possible to bring about solidarity in the internal state. This law does nothing but what was actually agreed in the Article 15a agreements, namely, to send a certain quota to the countries, and the countries would have been obliged to include this quota. If this system no longer works – so far, Article 15a agreements have lived up to the fact that both the Federal Government and the countries have complied with their agreements – then a law like this must be made, and that at constitutional level, in order to ensure enforcement. I am quite different from Mr Stefan, who said that it is all constitutionally impossible. – Please, we have these regulations in Article 15a agreements! We are only making them again in a law, and each country has, so to speak, an escape clause against this regulation. If the countries fulfil the quota, the allocation of the federal government will not be achieved at all! What, then, is the constitutional problem? – Each country is free to fulfil the quota. Then no assignment would be made by the covenant. So to mention here that this would be a constitutional problem? In addition: If we are constitutional legislators, we can handle this. Each country can decide for itself: I voluntarily fulfill the quota, voluntarily assign it, voluntarily designate the communities, voluntarily appoint the individual institutions to take the people – then the covenant does not build this law! That's what the law says. There is therefore an escape clause for countries that they are not forced to take up refugees. If one is forced to take action on this last measure, because the countries do not fulfil their refugee rate, then it must also be possible for the Federation to suspend in the short term those regulations, such as construction regulations and land ordination, which pseudo-responsibles are proposed, in order to enforce a higher asset – namely humanity and solidarity. That is the decisive! [[It was in favour of SPÖ and NEOS, as well as of Green MEPs.]] We have a moral obligation to put aside these regulations, which take place at the lower level of government, in order to give priority to the higher-quality goal of saving people. If we cannot decide to give human salvation priority to construction orders, we are not in place. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and NEOS.]] This cannot be the refugee policy that we want to refuse to save people under reference to building regulations. I think that's a moral concern. I do not think that anyone who speaks the word of this procedure has any human direction towards this problem. It is not possible to prefer building regulations on human rights and human rights obligations, which are on the other hand, to make a little policy. And if you don't have another argument anymore, you come with the fence. I think that this is a bad thing, not worth it and morally under any criticism. One last thing to conclude: Of course, the fact that towing at the third level – the criminal level – must also be combated does not go by. The fact that this is reduced to three people I think is reasonable, because business-making with people – and in doing so to take the death of these people – has not lost anything in this republic either.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e12963	Next, Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e12991	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! It should be noted that the EU has failed its refugee policy. This is a very clear matter to be found. The Dublin agreement no longer exists, Schengen no longer works and we have major problems. I am not speaking to the people who are running around their lives, to hope that they will come to the promised country, to Austria, Germany, Sweden or wherever they want to go. That's all legitimate, it's all understandable to me. For me, however, a major problem is that, as a result of this refugee problem, many economic refugees, as refugees of war, are pushing into our country. This is a big problem, ladies and gentlemen. The government is not doing enough. You act grossly negligent! First of all, I want to start with something positive. Mr Bundeskanzler, I would like to congratulate you! You asked for protection zones yesterday in the summer talk – four weeks after Frank Stronach demanded this – and gave us Frank Stronach a right. It's a shame you needed four weeks to do that. They could have acted much faster and better. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I was able to see something positive in the ÖVP, in terms of our old demand – we already made x-fold applications here before the summer to get hold of the problem of tow beings – that the tractors are punished more severely and this is really seen as a crime. We have been able to see the consequences this week or last week. When people, people from greed and whatever drag, do not take any account of human life, that is exactly what happens. If we make it too cheap for them, it will not be dissuasive, ladies and gentlemen. Therefore, severe penalties for tugs, as the Stronach team has always demanded. I will make a request later – you can agree. I think the ÖVP has also stopped there. After all, you are experts in the tow or you know yourself with tow, especially Mr. Klubobmann Lopatka, whom I would like to call a tow expert. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] After all, he succeeded in successfully dragging four business refugees from the Stronach team to the ÖVP, ladies and gentlemen! There too, you should finally act and do something right. Mr Vice-Chancellor has also mentioned that border controls are a subject. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Darmann.]] Yes, border controls are necessary to stop economic refugees, ladies and gentlemen. Now I would like to show you this on the basis of an example. This is about an ÖVPler, an ÖVP head of state, who explained something quite clearly about this in the TV summer talk of the ORF Vorarlberg. On Friday, Mr. Landeshauptmann Wallner said quite clearly that 2 190 asylum seekers are currently accommodated in Vorarlberg. Wallner has stopped because he has said that at least 50 percent of these asylum seekers will come to a negative conclusion. So if we already know that, ladies and gentlemen, then we can go here and introduce this 48-hour frist, as it has Switzerland, and quickly control it! We can then deal with this asylum procedure in 48 hours if we already know it in advance. If Mr ÖVP's head of state Wallner knows, it will be right, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Now I want to explain to you by means of a few examples why... – Yes, I explain why. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: Does he have a magic ball...?]] Listen to me carefully. I've been talking to cops who told me the following: They have explained to Kosovaren that they do not have an asylum claim in Austria. These were ready for voluntary return. Then a representative of the Caritas came, made legal advice. After that, these people have sought asylum because it has ordered them from the Caritas representative so that they can possibly hope for a humanitarian right to stay. Yes, if we all deal with these cases, then we have enough space, then we need not at all these measures, which the government now wants to take. Then we bring the people in the current accommodations. That would be the right way, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I would like to tell you something more because Mr Wöginger mentioned this with these phones earlier. We have already mentioned this here, Waltraud Dietrich has said this quite clearly, and we were also in Traiskirchen, we have looked at it: Everyone has a new phone. – We wondered why and why. Now I'm telling you what the police told me – and that's right, you can believe me. The police have explained that the Caritas provides the mobile phones to the asylum seekers so that they can call home and keep in touch with the family, and that each of these asylum seekers has 100 € a week to telephone. [[Abg. Wooger: Such a fool!]] That's 400 € a month. [[Abg. Gahr: You don't believe that yourself!]] That's what I've learned from police groups – and they'll know when they're dealing with it, ladies and gentlemen! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] I'll explain to you something about Caritas: They go to Vorarlberg's state government and present invoices that do not understand whether they have really been used for refugees. That's the point. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] The country pays for them to give rest. That's the problem. Now let me address my requests. I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Voices President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Another important thing: Border controls. I have mentioned that we also have a request for this. I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] These would be measures, ladies and gentlemen, with which you can act immediately! We don't need a fence, I'm right for you, but we need a dense network that also determines the legal framework. With these possibilities, you can create security for the Austrian people who deserved it, and not uncertainty as it is often done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e13145	The motions for resolutions tabled by Mr Hagen are sufficiently supported and are under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e13268	Next speaker: Madam President, I should like to thank you for your support. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e13290	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated government members on the government bank! [[Intervocations with SPÖ and Greens.]] In my perception, there has rarely been a subject that has occupied politics and people as long and intensively as the refugee crisis or the topic of asylum. It was also discussed at the political level – quite different. On the one hand, those who meant that we should be ashamed that it could not be a problem to feed and absorb all the people who come to us properly. On the other hand, those who would prefer to build a fence around Austria and appeal to the feelings of fear and envy with their expressions on the part of people without offering real solutions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein]] For example, Mr Hagen's statement to me concerning mobile phones is part of that. [[Abg. Hagen: This is the truth!]] [[Abg. Wives: Bullshit!]] However, there can only be a viable solution if, on the one hand, people are well informed – as the Upper Austrian government has just done – if their fears are taken seriously and perceived, and on the other hand, if the accommodation of those people who seek asylum for legitimate reasons is really done quickly and decently. It is already very late on this subject, but it is not too late. I note in the many discussions that I have now held in the run-up to the country elections that the mood of God has changed thanks to the positive. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] In particular, such incidents as the death of 71 refugees or the two children who are almost already dehydrated in Upper Austria have their share, but probably also the clarity and determination that can now be seen in both federal and national politics. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] On the one hand, what measures do they take to satisfy the humanistic and humane demands in the treatment of refugees and, on the other hand, take into account the partially justified fears and fears of the Austrians, partly overlaid and promoted? [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] In my opinion, the right of entry of the federal government, which we are discussing today and which will, of course, be decided either in the Constitutional Committee or in the Constitutional Committee, is not the all-healing remedy discussed in the media – according to the motto: Finally, this makes the covenant and that is why everything is going to be good now! – it is still a kind of devilry that eliminates the municipal autonomy. It is more like a rod in the window, a gentle pressure and hint to do the homework. And since it will only be applied if the countries fail to fulfil the quotas, it will help to improve problem-solving between levels. For example, the comments of the mayors from my constituency are not as panicous as the words from the FPÖ would be closed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] They look – quite the contrary – very consistently and very willingly for accommodation. This right of entry is, however, only a jigsaw puzzle of many. It needs the common European solution, which has often been quoted. Federal Chancellor Merkel has very clearly linked problem-solving competence to the survival of the European Union. If we have known ourselves as a community about values such as solidarity and humanity, but also about subsidiarity, but if we seem to simply throw them overboard in the refugee question, then the European Union as a whole is in danger. If nationalism is once again strengthened and the state borders are closed, then the EU's concept of common secure external borders and free movement opportunities is failing within these borders. If one third of the EU's countries take up 92 percent of refugees, this is an blatant rupture and solidarity only an empty word. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] If asylum homes are burning and some politicians only put them on the envy card, then there is obviously a deep buried humanity. If one level shifts the problem to the other, then the essence of subsidiarity was clearly misunderstandingd. What we need is clear statements and common action. We need, on the one hand, external borders, whose security is considered a common task. We need safe contact points in the countries of origin and at the European external borders in order to be able to identify already justified asylum grounds and thus to withdraw the business base from the tractors. We need an internal European division key, as Steffen Angenendt, for example, suggested by the German Institute for International Policy and Security, and of course we need internal Austrian solidarity. People in the communities also show this solidarity. For example, 70 volunteers work in my home town of Neuhofen, who take care of 35 asylum seekers in a wide range of areas. I can tell you: It works! At this point, I would like to thank all the volunteers who have demonstrated their solidarity and human attitude, especially those who have cared for the refugees at the Westbahnhof and Salzburg last night. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and SPÖ as well as the Abg. Scherak.]] We need clear statements! I would like to thank our Vice-President very much for his clear words today, but especially our Minister of the Interior for her commitment and serenity, which she preserves despite many cross-checks and quite unqualified abuses, and for our members of the Government, who also increase pressure at European level. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] This issue can only be solved together, with home mind and propriety. I do not want to live in a country in which dumping tribal paroles dominate politics. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Peter Wurm: Goodbye!]] Our members of the government are sure that this will remain true. A warm thank you for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e13419	Next, Mr Magistrate. Haider on the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e13483	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] This right of entry is nothing more than the capitulation of the asylum policy of this government and its green agents in front of the tow bands, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] This right of entry means the abolition of municipal autonomy and federalism in Austria. What comes about with this right of access to the communities is clearly reflected in a confidential letter that has been played to me. In it, Federal Councillor Gertraud Jahn of the SPÖ writes to the district leaders in Upper Austria the following – I quote: “The Federation is therefore planning a Federal Constitutional Act on the accommodation and division of asylum seekers. This will enter into force on 1.10.2015 (...) It has also been announced that from then on there will be quarters openings of the federal government in a large style (...)” [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nice to meet you.]] ‘Great-style federal openings’ means: There is no more talk of fingertips, or: the congregations do not exaggerate, no, “quartier openings in great style. ” She is only waiting for the country elections in Upper Austria and in Vienna, and then there are “quartier openings in a large style” – quote of Upper Austrian councillor Gertraud Jahn. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Nice to meet you.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Königsberger-Ludwig and Mr Korun.]] Ladies and gentlemen from the government, you don't fix a water pipe break by distributing the water into all the rooms, let yourself be said! And it's a dam break that's currently in Europe. We have had about 12,000 asylum applications three years ago, then two years ago it was 17 000, last year 28 000, this year we expect 80 000, and next year it will be 180 000 or 200 000. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Darmann.]] These are the figures of the Ministry of the Interior that we received at the last meeting in June. When is the limit of capacity reached in this country? When Are you saying we can't do it anymore? What does our society bear? Of the 80 000 asylum seekers expected this year, 30 000 will be granted asylum. That's all right, too. Austria has a great tradition in neighborhood aid: Since the end of the Second World War, we have received nearly 1.5 million people – and that in the case of a total population of just over 8 million now. Humanity has always lived in Austria, and that has always been our responsibility. But what happens to the 50,000 economic refugees who do not receive asylum? They're not being pushed off. [[Call the Greens.]] These economic refugees are also distributed to the communities for the duration of the asylum process and take away the right asylum seekers, the right asylum-seekers sometimes also the places! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And if after months or years the asylum procedure is negative, they still remain as illegal immigrants in Austria. This is the core of the problem that they are not willing to address and solve! Switzerland is making it up for this – quite simply: There are two different asylum procedures in Switzerland: There is an asylum procedure – the normal one – for the people who, for example, come from Syria, where it can be expected that they will really get asylum, and then there is a second, a separate asylum procedure for people from countries where it is clear that they will never get asylum – that takes 48 hours. If you take an example of this, we would have the same effect as Switzerland, for Switzerland is the only country in Europe where the number of applications is declining while they are rising and rising. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We are dealing here with a great deal of abuse of the asylum system, and there is nothing to deny. We have applicants, who do not come to us for reasons of persecution, not for reasons of asylum, but for purely economic interest. If we know that in Africa 400 million people are willing to come to Europe, then the dimensions that our societies can simply not bear are the ones that blow. We have to say quite clearly: No way!, just like Australia does. If you're trying to come to us illegally, you don't have a chance to stay here! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] Each current is looking for the path of the slightest resistance, and if we can no longer protect our borders, the flow of refugees is going its way to us. That is why we also need to reintroduce reinforced border controls, as it did – because Mr Wöginger was so evocative about this earlier – also called for the Upper Austrian ÖVP in June at the request of the FPÖ. By this one sees, colleague Wöginger, how the ÖVP in Upper Austria and Landeshuptmann Pühringer make politics: flash right in Upper Austria and turn left in Vienna. This is the policy of the Upper Austrian ÖVP. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] [[Calls and calls between representatives of FPÖ and ÖVP.]] We need border controls with the assistance of the German army, as the mayor of Burgenland, Niessl, has called for since he has a free-lance partner with whom he can finally make a successful policy. We need asylum centres and humanitarian care stations at the EU's external borders, best still on the continent of Africa or Asia. And we need to... Mr Marshall's plan for Africa. But we do not need a right of access to the Austrian communities. Not with us liberals!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e13661	Next come Mrs. Dr. Nachbaur. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e13690	Mr President. Dear government representatives! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! Dear taxpayers! [[Abg. Hagen: You cut off the taxpayers!]] In Europe, we are considering one refugee tragedy after another, but one end is not in sight. Many rightly demand humanity, and therefore I say: Europe must strictly monitor its external borders precisely for the sake of humanity. The more lax the asylum laws are handled, the more people dare into this cruel death trap. It's terrible to attract desperate people like this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Hagen: Business refugee!]] However, migration flows have to do not only with the Geneva Convention on Refugees, but above all with the suckling effects of the welfare states. The Austrian minimum security system has been talking about, Austria is a major target for people who are looking for a better life. However, Europe cannot afford to take up economic refugees. That would not be in line with asylum law. And an asylum right that tolerates its abuse is getting rid of itself. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I quote the editor-in-chief of the German “Handelsblatt”. ==References== August 2015: “Many of those we call refugees are, in fact, illegal immigrants. They are the victims of tow bands, but not of political repression. They were seduced, but not persecuted. Whoever makes available to all (...) generous food and logis, launches a bonus program for people dealers.” [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] And he goes on to write: “We feel like great humanists – and are in truth the useful idiots of the tugs.” That is why I very much welcome the stricter criminal laws of Minister Brandstetter. If you look who's coming, that's mostly men. And realistically, you have to consider: They've got family, they've got women and children, and they're probably gonna want to go after them. You have to be able to discuss all of this. [[Congratulations on ODP and FPÖ Members.]] [[Abg. That's right!]] Those who have read the “Handelsblatt” also know that the staff expenditure per refugee is around €1 400 in care. They have a company called European Homecare, which will be about the same cost in Austria. [[Abg. Brosz: Could it be that you have moved too far a sector?]] There are many other costs. And my aim is to ensure that there is an objective discussion here. Mr Urschitz also spoke in the daily “The Press”: 250 000 minimum insurance beneficiaries cost almost € 1 billion. So that's where it costs us. And that must be discussed objectively in every political group – also with the Greens, very dear green colleagues! [[Congratulations on ODP and FPÖ Members.]] We want to be human. [[Call to the Greens: Who is “we”? You and the FPÖ?]] We have a humanistic, Christian, beautiful tradition and commitment to help people and families fleeing from the war. That is why we need to talk about what the taxpayers actually cost. And that must be discussed, once again, in a matter of fact. They always come right away with the cult of racism, but no problem can be solved in this way! The legitimate concerns of citizens must be taken seriously. [[Prolonged condolences with representatives of ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Rossmann: Do you want to change the sector again?]] Just not taking this seriously and always swinging right away with your keules, that shocks the alien hatred; and that is the last thing we need in Austria! [[Congratulations on ODP and FPÖ Members.]] It needs solutions, especially at European level, which is my appeal. When it came to imposing sanctions on Russia, the EU was very quick. When it came to financing Greece with loans, there were meetings that lasted day and night – and now? Chancellor Merkel said in her summer talk: The topic of asylum, the topic of refugees, will be the biggest European issue at all. Where's UN, NATO? The problem must be packed at the root. It is precisely international policy that is in place to create peace. It has set in motion the greatest international migration of history. Of course we want to help. Austria has a very, very nice tradition. But since we now know that many economic refugees are also seeking the train to Europe, I would suggest that you take a look at Canada, Australia or New Zealand. Immigrants are allowed to do so through immigration laws, not through asylum laws. It is also asked whether they are using the country. We need immigration in Austria. We need top professionals, top researchers, top scientists, we need investors. In such an environment, Multikulti also works. I was allowed to experience this myself in Toronto, the most multicultural city in the world. One of my first superiors was a black lawyer. I actually learned from her at most in the field of justice. I am the first intercessor for a functioning multiculti. But this red-green utopia, door and gate to open wide and then everything will be fine, that would lead to chaos or civil war in Europe over a short or long time. [[Congratulations on ODP and FPÖ Members.]] [[Abg. Hagen: (in the direction of SPÖ) You are with those in the coalition!]] Brussels should not only be concerned with distributing the problems, but also with contributing to solving the problems. The EU Commission must be criticised. I support the initiative of Minister Kurz to pack the problem at the root. In short, it was true to say: Europe's external borders must be safeguarded. And that's not immoral. The safeguarding of the external borders is the basis of statehood itself. Here, too, one can take an example of Israel. Let us safeguard European borders and support the admission of persecuted third country nationals! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Switzerland]] We will build humanitarian infrastructures in the context of the crisis spots! Thus, refugees are not taken from their continent and can help rebuild the country. Minister Kurz is perfectly right when he says that the EU needs common border protection, as well as military intervention against ISIS. This horrendous rule must finally end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e13872	Next, Mr Magistrate. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e13894	Ladies and gentlemen! There are moments when it is tangible and noticeable that history is written. One remembers the fall of the Berlin Wall. There was consciousness present. Even now we are again in a situation where history is written. The escape movement from Syria will surely go into history. The question is how it will go about history. Will it go into history in the tradition of the Hungarian crisis, the Prague Spring, the Yugoslavia crisis, or will it go into history as a disgrace for Europe, for a Europe that is actually understood as the weighing of the Enlightenment, for a Europe that defends human rights against ISIS but wants to offer nothing to those concerned and to the victims of ISIS? [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: That was something else, you can't compare that!]] [[Abg. Darmann: Depends on how to define “disgusting ”!]] With barbed wire, walls, fences and prunes, you will not be able to hold back any protection seekers and you will not be allowed to hold back any protection seekers. Which pictures will shape the story? The picture, we've all seen it, a child sluggishing away from Macedonian police batons, the image of men who are brutally arrested by the Hungarian border police, the picture of women infesting under barbed wire fences? Or, in response to this flight movement, is it possible to achieve a humanitarian master achievement, such as yesterday at the Westbahnhof, where hundreds of volunteers were and the transitors provided and the ÖBB staff performed a great performance? [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Belakovich-Jenewein and Mr Darmann]] Is it possible that a back goes through society, that we understand what our responsibility is? [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Scherak.]] The next generation always asks the same questions about history: What did you do back then? Why did you act like that? And the most unscrupulous: Why was that possible? Our goal must be to be able to answer these questions with a good conscience. We are all part of this story, politicians like citizens, we all have to make our contribution to this story, with which we want to be responsible later. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Darmann and Mr Hübner.]] At the latest, the 71 deaths in Parndorf all have to wake us up, and there must be one lesson from this terrible catastrophe: If you block motorways, if you block trains and railway stations, you drive those looking for protection directly into the tow weights of the tractors and directly into the Mediterranean Sea. This is the teaching from Parndorf. We 183 Members cannot stand up here on the one hand and hold a memorial for the dead of Parndorf and at the same time demand that the borders be locked down. That doesn't fit in, that would be the wrong conclusion and the wrong teaching from Parndorf! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Scherak.]] The events also show that Dublin has failed. It's an absurd system that can't be crisis resistant at all. Dublin says that refugees must get their asylum procedures where they enter the European Union. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Darmann.]] This cannot work in the event of a crisis and in reality means that the responsibility to deal with asylum proceedings lies with a few countries. This system has failed, this system must fail, and there is only one alternative: the adoption of Dublin and a fair system in which all states in Europe assume their responsibility for refugees and refugees. [[I should like to congratulate the Greens, and by Mr Grossmann and Mr Scherak.]] Last point: Whoever is willing to deal with the situation and the escape movement, I am not going to use the term “economic refugees” anymore – and I am entirely with Vice-Kanzler Mitterlehner in connection with the escape movement from Syria. Those who come now, these are people who leave Syria to escape the torture of Assad, from the terror of ISIS. These are people who have partly belonged to the middle class in Syria, who sell their house there in order to come safely to Europe, because they no longer have a safe life there. Second myth: There are always only the single men. Sure, a single man is, relatively, more mobile than a family with two small children. It is hardly surprising, therefore, that in the first months of the flight movement more single men have come. Who looks into the trains now, Hungary, Vienna Central Station, who sees families, he sees children. Whoever now looks at Traiskirchen, and this will confirm the Minister of the Interior, sees unaccompanied minors who have fled alone. It is simply a third legend that those who fled would abandon their families in Syria. [[Abg. Darmann: There are interviews of these refugees!]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's write history, each one for us a small centimeter, a small contribution! Let us write the story of a humanitarian master achievement, as it should be in the tradition of Europe!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e13997	Next, Mr Magistrate. Gerstl speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e14018	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Today we are facing a situation that we all, I believe, have not expected a few years ago, even though the Minister of the Interior has drawn attention to it a year ago. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: That's it?]] It was the Minister of the Interior who made the proposal in the European Union a year ago to install the Save Lives project because she realized that we are facing a new wave of refugees, a wave of refugees, as she did the history of the 20th century. ==References====External links== [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: We are already in 21. 19th century!]] We count around 60 million people worldwide who are fleeing, more than in World War II. No one likes to leave his country if he finds in this country the conditions that allow him an independent, safe life. It is understandable that if the risk of being injured on the run or perhaps finding death is less than dying at home in the home country, each of us would probably also use this opportunity and say: I'm fleeing. [[Abg. Darmann: Who would have built Austria if everyone had fled?]] It was the Minister of the Interior who said we had to prepare for it. We must come to a new form of cooperation. I have to say this as a constitutional lawyer – because I am also here today as a constitutional speaker and will discuss the matter in the Constitutional Committee –: I think our Constitution is very good because the responsibilities and the balance of power are apportioned accordingly. But the whole thing only works if everyone always wants to work together with a common will. At the moment when one wants to stop working together or only limit his cooperation to the powers he has, cooperation is no longer possible. That is why the Minister of the Interior made the following point before the summer: We must amend the Austrian Federal Constitution here in order to address the problem of a solution when it comes to placing the many refugees who come here in first care, not in tents, not in homelessness, but in proper procedure. It was therefore right and cheap that she asked for this. It has now taken a few months for me to be too long, but that is the price for democracy. Democracy means that we all have to stand together and find such solutions together. The government parties alone are unable to make such a major reform, it always needs the votes of an opposition party because they are constitutional laws. I am not saying this to you, but above all to the spectators, because they are very often wondering why some major reforms are not implemented more quickly. It is therefore a chuzpe when the FPÖ says it does not agree with this solution today, although it knows that it contributes to solving the problem. This shows your treachery in the system. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] They are always opposed and do not want a solution in the system. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Darmann: Mr President! The word “loyalty ” is worth a call for order!]] – If you encounter the word “loyalty”, I would like to take it back. But I'd like to tell you one thing: At yesterday's commemorative fair in St. Stephen's Cathedral, a party missed: That was the FPÖ. She was not with any representative at the Memorial event for the 71 dead who died in the refrigeration car. [[Abg. Darmann: For this your clubman Lopatka posted photos from the church!]] I would have expected at least one of you who sometimes pretended to uphold the Christian values. You were exposed yesterday, I think, by yourself, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Darmann.]] I think it would be good for you to stand here together. If there are such problems, then it is said to stand together and not to say here that you are calling for a review procedure so that the problem can only be solved in two months. Your proposal today to initiate a review procedure means that you do not want to solve the problem, not want to solve it before winter, not if people need it, but you would do it later. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not the way in which the Federal Government is imagining it, it is not the way in which German Chancellors and Vice Chancellors have explained it today, and that is not the way in which the Minister of the Interior deals with refugees. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nice.]] This is not according to humanity as you behaved by the FPÖ. I'm sorry to have to tell you that, but you lost my respect. At the moment, you have lost my respect when you said you wanted to change the European Convention on Human Rights, in the sense that you only want to grant human dignity to more specific people. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: That's not true!]] [[Abg. Darmann: Don't say something like that!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If we start to change the Convention on Human Rights, that you only want to give to certain people the dignity, then everything will stop constitutionally for me! [[Abg. Darmann: That's incredible! They disqualify themselves anyway!]] Then it's really over! There is no cooperation possible. We need cooperation where human dignity is in the foreground, as the Vice-Cancellor has said. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Too bad the ÖVP is so...!]] They must allow the refugees in Austria to receive what they deserve, and not to put the dark forward! In contrast, we have to leave the light forward! They just want to use the dark. I stand here for the subversive power of confidence and not for pessimism and misanthropy. That's not what I support. On the contrary, good will and thanks to all those who are already helping and supporting today are announced. In that sense, we can also solve problems. “Krísis” means Greek “decision” – not misanthropy and not pessimism. In this sense, I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e14196	Ladies and gentlemen, I have not heard the honourable Member's dubious accusation, but he has then taken it back himself so that I do not call for an order. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: He took him back anyway!]] I think that is in line with the practice so far. Next word: Mr. Dr. Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e14228	Mr President. Madam Minister of the Interior! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Yes, the big problem of this law is that it's too late. We have already said that we will agree, but it simply reflects the problem in the Austrian real constitution and how federalism is lived in Austria. We have long known about the situation in Syria, we have long known about the situation in Iraq and in many other countries. So we actually had enough time to prepare for it. [[Abg. Pretty:... for immigrants!]] We have heard it today, and the Minister of the Interior has already called for this for a very long time and said: Something comes to us, we have to do something! That's right. But those who did not respond to it were in very many cases the heads of state. We know, in principle, that federalism is not necessarily the guarantee of rapid decisions, and that is unacceptable in many areas of my opinion, but that is absolutely unacceptable in an area where people are concerned about human health. And there was a massive crossing of a border. This cross-border crossing has led to the presence in the refugee camp in Traiskirchen of some 4,500 people, about half of them homeless, and that – I take out a more precise number – 75 children under five years of age, that is, infants, homeless in Traiskirchen were, that these little children had to sleep on the burned earth in his heat, that mothers had to bring their children to the world on this meadow. That is this border crossing, which is unbearable and which cannot be! [[Congratulation with NEOS and Greens.]] If the FPÖ comes out of here and says they have constitutional concerns and this is a breach of the constitution, then I wonder where this call has been in these clearly illegal conditions. Human rights are also in the constitutional rank in Austria. Of course, the question of the distribution of competence is always referred to, but let us see that we find a solution here so that you can quickly create accommodation, that is the only natural thing. Mr Wittmann said it before: Human life is guaranteed to be a higher-quality asset than any construction order. If we have to have this discussion in here, I really don't know how that could be at all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pendl.]] Of course, we need to find solutions here. The fact that human life is a high-quality good would have to be clear to everyone in this Parliament! We now have this possibility of the federal government being able to afford the opportunity if the federal states fail to fulfil their quotas. That's good, that's just as good as the increase in the day rates. Bad is – and I have already said that before – that it took so long and that I think it needed this real shame from Traiskirchen, so that something happened here at last; for we knew that it was going to come, and it took months. We needed these unbearable conditions to do something. Two things to conclude: Number one: It's an emergency measure, we all know. What we really need is long-term, long-term solutions. We need a national action plan on asylum, otherwise we will not know again how to deal with these challenges in the future. Second point: Yes, the fight against tractors, the controls of trucks that are taking place now, these are right steps, but they only show again where the fundamental problem is: that people who flee war in their homeland are fleeing from violence, fleeing persecution, simply have no opportunity to escape legally into the European Union. As long as this is so, as long as these people who have to flee from home do not have a legal opportunity, such a tragedy as it was in Parndorf last week will happen again and again – because these people have no chance of legally entering the European Union. That is why, for the time being, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Only when we take such measures will we be able to ensure that the people who have run around their lives who have managed to save their lives will not have to lose their lives within the European Union.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e14293	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Scherak is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e14354	Next speaker: Mrs Dr Lintl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e14375	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The headline in today’s “Kronen Zeitung” was: ‘Refugees lay down Westphalianbahnhof lahm’. This is a declaration of bankruptcy of the EU's and the government's asylum and refugee policies. [[Congratulations and bravado with members of the FPÖ.]] [[Call to the Greens:Was there?]] The Federal Government presents a redistribution request for the non-ending refugee flow to the countries and communities. The proposal under discussion today is a massive one in the matters of local spatial planning. This has so far been free of instructions from the administration of the federal government. This project must be rejected. This is an arbitrary event law and does not justify the amendment of the previously proven constitution. [[Congratulations on the members of the FPÖ.]] Article 2 states: ‘The Federal Government may, by means of a regulation, determine a higher municipal reference value if the number of residents in need of assistance and protection is likely to exceed the number of places available in the federal territory.’ But I'm asking: How does this guide come to be? Just the number of people who flee to us or who are looking for a better economic life in our country? No matter if they come to us legally or illegally, and indifferently how high their number is? The Federal Government wants to determine the number of refugees that a community has to take up. And then the word “must” bothers me. Or do we still have the wishes and needs of the indigenous population, those who, with their tax money, have to finance these benefits – and here the word fits again –?- Oh, my God! Therefore, in return, the Austrian people must also agree, as is to be done in refugee policy, namely those people who have rebuilt our country for decades after the Second World War with much zeal and idealism, who have pursued Europe's peace project. [[Congratulations with members of the FPÖ]] They deserve to be heard. The authorities with us do not know how many refugees are coming to Austria or being driven by Austria. The situation is just being taken. Finally, there are at least controls at the Hungarian border, which is absolutely necessary to prevent at least further humanitarian disasters. A sovereign state has not only the interest but also the duty to secure the borders, to ensure stable inner conditions. The situation, as it now stands, is polarizing our society. That's where I see a danger to inner peace. The EU's membership has partly given up sovereignty. Therefore, it would be the EU's duty to secure external borders. But that's not happening. Nor is it enough to rely on the implementation of a just EU distribution key – for which it is not necessary to hope at all. All the refugees who come to Austria have already been in a safe third country. They throw away their passports, don't be registered until they arrive in their country of wish. This, ladies and gentlemen, is really unfair to their own countrymen, who do not run away from it, but fight for their own country. I therefore call for complete border controls to be introduced in Austria, as has so far been said in all my speeches on these issues. We need to know what is happening in our country, otherwise we will give control out of hand and let things happen just as last Thursday the terrible find of the tow truck on the highway has shown. Non-open borders prevent tragedies of this kind, but consistently implemented criteria for asylum and wanted, controlled and legal migration.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e14431	Next, Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e14452	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear spectators on the visitor gallery and on the televisions! [[The speaker presents a picture of the speaker’s desk, on which a fully occupied refugee boat is pictured.]] I think, of course, that the sincere compassion, including family, applies to every one of the 71 people. Of course, as Mrs Glawischnig said today, each of these refugees has its own destiny. But I think we have to say with all clarity and clarity what refugee is all about. Always this flat-rate judgment refugees: Are they economic refugees or are they refugees? [[Call the SPÖ: These are just people!]] – Yes, they are very people, thank you very much. [[Abg. Lugar: We are all people!]] I am also grateful to Mr Wöginger, who unfortunately is not in the hall now, because I am delighted that one can be so forgetful with such youth. ==References== On 21 May I spoke here at the meeting at the Dringliche der Freiheitlichen on asylum law, and on 21 May. I have called here in May for measures to be taken in the 500 local crisis regions, to help set up tents on site and to help local people secure their regions, to strengthen their regions and not to leave them. So fast is the time, and I am excited that the colleague Wöginger, probably in view of the upcoming election settlement in Upper Austria, brings all-sided newspaper inserates who pay the ÖVP with tax money to explain the asylum chaos. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Prince]] The ÖVP Oberösterreich receives 16.5 million € of tax money annually, and then to explain to the voters something and dare to also underline this here in the High House with co-humanity, which is probably very far-reaching. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I can quote the Chancellor who spoke today of compulsory quotas. I don't think that's the solution. If you look at these huge flows of refugees, we need a clarification. The “Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung” reported at the beginning of August that approximately 2.7 percent of these refugees receive asylum status. Asylum is known to be a short stay. I think it is very essential that you really help those who actually had to flee and not seek the good paradise. How did one speaker say today when he was interviewed: One would also like to participate in this modern world with modern education. – I believe that this is exactly the wrong approach if one flees where it already works instead of working in one’s own region. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I am particularly pleased that I was then, also on 21 January. May, has already pointed out – that is why today, I believe, very famous names from the Alpbach Forum have been called – that there are people who know how to produce refugees. It is about this Group policy, which I mentioned at the time. Petra Ramsauer has in her book “So hunger is made” describes what happens when the Ethiopian farmers say, now we go with our roses. We don't get seeds, now we look at where our products are so in demand, look at this western paradise. There is a real need to adopt the principles and not always when dealing with the emergencies. I believe that prevention is the most important thing, and that is why it is quite true, especially my thanks to the NGOs, but much more to the security forces, because I have some discussion in this House in the ear, where only cuts are spoken of when it comes to security services, where one immediately goes to the Gendarmerie, one goes to the federal army. There are so many reduction possibilities. I know many speakers in this House who are the first to use the protection of these organisations. I think that should be discussed in principle: Either we stand to our state, or we also stand at the right side of our population – or not. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach]] I am convinced that the Austrians have not even proved how they stand as real refugees, who are also given the opportunity to gain real asylum status with us, how they are integrated, how they are supported. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I am calling for much more objectivity in this debate, much less a party perspective; unfortunately, Mr Wöginger has shown it again today. It is not possible to make policy on this subject. This is so far-reaching and goes beyond Europe. That is where we need to start working on the ground to find solutions on the ground, and then we can create them together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e14539	Next, Mr Magistrate. Darmann speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e14560	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen at home! I am – you know me and you know that I am very openhearted here, I emphasize heartily, talk – really shocked about it, as a politician, as a citizen, but above all as a father, what I had to listen to here and today especially from the ranks of the ÖVP, the Greens, but partly also the SPÖ, for you, ladies and gentlemen, have still not recognized the signs of time. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Of course, there are tragic, extremely tragic crimes on the part of the tow mafia, which can be strongly condemned, but for years – and these are the loud calls – it is known which international migration has set itself in motion on the part of Africa towards Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, this has been known for years, in all other crises of military nature! And we have a Federal Government and now representatives of the National Council, representatives of the people who are trying here to solve the clearly known and undisputed migration of people with asylum policy. - I can't do that! This is not responsible to the Austrian population, it is not responsible to the future generations in our country! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I must say this in this clarity, even if I am trying to hold back emotionally, ladies and gentlemen. If Mr Gerstl here at the speaker's desk stands to criticize Christian values of individual people here or their lives accordingly, I wonder where we are. For you and the ÖVP, it is obviously the only true thing to sunk in the spotlight of a fair, to have to sunk, and to accuse everyone who does not do so – probably many from the Freedom Club, as you have said, but also millions of Austrians who were not present yesterday – that they no longer live Christian values. With this, ladies and gentlemen, you have really found a low point of a living or seeking morality in the ÖVP, for, Mr. Gerstl, it was your clubman, who yesterday left out a tweet with a photo from the fair – you hear and marvel; for those who have not seen it – to show that he is there. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Brav, good!]] If this is necessary to make asylum policy that is in accordance with human rights, I do not have access to the church because I am responsible to my people, especially my family, Mr Gerstl, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and SPÖ. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What has still been noticed today, ladies and gentlemen, valued spectators at home: The more the EU and many of its Member States have proved their inability in the field of asylum – Schengen, Dublin and the like – the more this federal government calls out to the same EU. Where's your own responsibility, Mrs. Innenminister? I need to talk to you about this, and I know you have no easy life in this function. But where has the federal government's own responsibility remained, if – and this is also undisputed – the external borders of the European Union do not recognize what they represent, and are not worth the names they bear, namely the self-responsibility to suspend Schengen, as it was – not depending on the day-to-day constitution of the Minister of the Interior and the Federal Government – and really carry out controls at our borders again? [[Accompaniment with the FPÖ and the Abg. Lintl.]] It is something else to do this in the border area, where, of course, it is much more difficult and it takes a lot more resources for the police to cover this border area than to do so with much less executive forces directly at the border, in order to set in motion also our legal system in accordance with the shifts if obvious persons from safe third countries around Austria want to emigrate to Austria. “Immigrants”, I use this word consciously, because now it is clear that red and black – this is reflected in an interview with Mr. Mayor Häupl – seem to have only access to this area: [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: The future ex-citizen!]] Häupl has also confirmed in a “Krone” interview that he wants to teach the German language to the asylum seekers in Vienna. Then: Whoever can speak the language can stay in Vienna. Ladies and gentlemen! Forget Please do not, asylum is a right of protection for time, no right to immigration! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Höbart: In time, that's it! Right!]] And if you go over with this planned federal constitution law on the communities, about the parish citizens – that is equivalent to me – on the citizens across Austria to deposit this burden, just because the Republic of Austria is not prepared to do its homework on behalf of the Federal Government, then this is an access that we liberals certainly do not share, and something that we do not share, because the population belongs to it in every decision. It is about our future and also about our home country. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e14681	Next, Mr Köchl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e14702	Dear ladies, dear gentlemen! Appreciated spectators at the visitor gallery! Estimated Austrians! Estimated refugees in front of the TV! [[Abg. Lugar: They can't understand you!]] Today's statement by Mr. Klubobmann Strache, who said – I wrote it down – that: Then protect the Austrians from the tow mafia!, was significant. That is, you obviously do not want to protect the refugees from the tow mafia, but the Austrians. What's this statement? – We want to protect all people from the tow mafia and not just the Austrians! [[Abg. Darmann: Everybody? Then you'll make a policy after that!]] You said: Then protect the Austrians from the tow mafia! – Original quote Klubobmann Strache. This is only a preliminary remark. [[Abg. Hoebart: Home protection is pui, isn't it?]] I think you're doing the following policy: If a house is burning, keep the door closed from the outside so that no one comes out of the burning house. If someone jumps out of the window, you say, Hoppala, it's forbidden to jump out of the window! You are illegal because you do not comply with the law that forbids you to jump out of a window! – This is currently FPÖ policy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Cute: This is a “talk” comparison!]] We should understand that people come in some way in times when they are bombed out and killed. They're coming because they're fleeing from safe death. If you could agree on it: No fence in the world – be it still so high and still so bloody and still so stingy – will stop these people from fleeing from safe death. This should be understood, above all, by the FPÖ. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: You don't listen at all! Do you have anything on your ears?]] In reality, make You are a policy with which you pull up barbed wires and cause wounds in infants, bleeding wounds, because people will also overcome these fences and this barbed wire when they flee from safe death. One thing is also the following: I spoke to very, very many refugees and I found that many of those who are now stranded somewhere in Central Europe do not know at all where they live. That's the naked truth. They don't know anything about country elections in Upper Austria, they don't know anything about country elections in Vienna and they don't know why they're being treated this way because of this campaign. This issue is absolutely not eligible for election. And this really contributes to the problem that we always have such an uplifting mood here. The aim of politics must be to take the fears of bringing people together to speak together. That's also part of the problem I've always located here: Ms. Interior Minister, you have in principle the logic – from your point of view completely comprehensible – of a police state, a logic that is far away from the subject of fraternity and from the principle that all people are equal. The logic of the Ministry of the Interior – see Traiskirchen, see many other cases – is the logic of security, security, police state. [[Abg. Cute: What is a police state of green nature?]] I'd ask you for one and ask you: Please acknowledge that you have not managed to make order with this police state logic! You're always talking about order. You didn't create any order with this police state logic, but rather chaos. So one might need to change the logic some time after several months of the failure of this police logic. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Get away with the police, exactly!]] And the logic is that the NGOs say that the Caritas, that civil society, who knows how to help here, is really supported and not hindered. That seems very, very essential to me. We have this law here today, because there was a hack the months before, because one has always been looking for reasons why something is not going on: Construction regulations, fire protection provisions et cetera. At last we need a situation – when the house is burning when people are bombed out – in which one manages to find reasons why it goes, and not why it is not possible to create quarters of the same kind. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You have now seen that order you can not create from above, so to speak dictated with police logic. So I'm asking you to change the logic. On this occasion I would also like to thank all those involved, including the police, for their work, including the Red Cross, including all the NGOs who have done wonderful work. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: For the police state!]] I also learned a lot in my own community in summer. In Krumpendorf am Wörthersee, where I am responsible for tourism and refugees, we have mostly accommodated 300 refugees in tents at 3,400 inhabitants. I can also say that many of the fears that occurred in the beginning, in the first days, many of the things that were feared did not occur at all. We didn't have any announcements to the police all summer, although there were fears again and again. We have recorded the best numbers of tourists in July for five years. We have made 19 events with our refugees and our tourists, 19 times party in seven weeks. Two or three times a week party, from belly dance to together, and people have therefore even extended their vacation. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: The Greens make party, the others make politics!]] So we have the best numbers of tourists for a long time – and not what has always been conjured up from the other side with fear and evil precepts. One must also hold back the facts from doing so. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Learning would be what Welcome Culture means. Welcome culture means that people who come this way or that – you just have to accept it once – prefer to welcome them, because they come anyway and then you get this warmth back ten times. You also get the hatred back when you sow hatred. That's why I'd just ask you to maintain this welcome culture. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] I looked at this over the summer, quite specifically along the refugee route. For example, I was on 6. August in Macedonia, in Gevgelya, where 1,000 people arrived at the station every day – now it is even more. The Foreign Minister was also there in the meantime. There is an evil business being done with distress and misery. You pay at station 2 € to be allowed to go to the toilet, 3 € for charging a mobile phone. It's inhumane, and that's embarrassing! It would have to be possible – if we define ourselves as a European Union – to do something like welcome buses, for example, and to welcome people at the EU's external border and thus take away the business from the tractors. Why don't we drive her with the buses and make the tugs break the business? It is important to me that from Austria comes a signal of humanity, of human dignity and not the fragility of inhumanity, not the frenzy of those who speak of hatred, for ultimately the power of love and confidence is much stronger than the power of hatred. That is essential to me, and there have already been some great and some important debates today. Finally, to the right of access: The dear FPÖ should not talk about the right of entry, which has used its right of entry within the Freedom Party of Salzburg itself. That's where you needed a right of access. You said you needed a right of access. [[Abg. Darmann: This is a embarrassing comparison!]] So please, don't come with this criticism of this emergency law that we decide here today. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e14890	Next, Mr Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e14911	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Yes, the right of access is necessary. It is just as necessary as the coordinator, which was used because the current situation is the result – I have already said that when I began to accommodate the asylum seekers at the time – of the failure of all those involved. You can't ignore that. Maybe it's also a conscious failure. If the Chancellor of the Federal Republic thinks today that it is serious to build ordinary quarters, I ask myself: Where have we been for the last three months? What's in Althofen? What is in Salzburg in the Alpenstraße? What's going on there? When Mr. Vice-Chancellor Mitterlehner and Mr. Lopatka talk about human rights and Christian-social values, I ask: Where are your national leaders? Where are your mayors? Do they have no Christian-social values? They're the first to say: No, not with me! [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Maybe make it. She's not at Mr. Erwin Pröll's, but otherwise every mayor says: If you drive me refugees, I'm not going to choose for you! - That's the problem you have. Lungau – Let’s not talk about it, colleague Eßl. [[New call to the ÖVP.]] These heads of state and mayors with the Christian-social values dance around you on the nose. And one thing must not be ignored – I want to remind you –: When was it when it said that we were only Syrians, the Christian faith? The church is still talking about it today. Is it human beings? Are these people? Are only Christians human beings or are there a general human being that we have to consider, people who have to flee and who do not do so free of will? – It's a failure on all lengths. Let me give you four examples. Yesterday, the refugees who had been accommodated at the Student Home in Kuching had to be moved because of course the students need room. How was this relocation organized? – It was organized in such a way that these 100 refugees after the Al- phabet were divided into three different quarters. It's unimaginable! How can you, how do you want human access? They talked about being human. Any reasonable person, anyone who has only once had anything to do with crises, will try to keep the groups together, even in every need. Where's humanity? Example two: It took three weeks for my asylum home to be approved. The Authority has raised only one issue: that there must be a board in the middle of a double bed, because the refugees cannot lie there. What is the comparison to Althofen, to Salzburg in the Alpenstraße, where we distribute Extrawurst-Blattl as a lunch meal in Ramadan? Is there humanity? Point three: What expertise is there if the police – I had a conversation with a police officer in charge yesterday – do not even receive a training as to how to deal with all the refugees? I think they're overwhelmed because they didn't have training. Example four: As I am told, takes Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration Shortly not even participating in the weekly crisis talks. Before that, we have heard that many young people need to be integrated into schools next week. Where is he? – He's not sitting here today! I would also like to thank those who are sitting here who are very likely to participate in this process. Mr Katzian asked me what he could do. He did something: He sent the clothes of his football team to me to Gastein. They have a Gaudi, they appreciate it. And now the question is: What can we, the 183 Members, do to be a model for thanking those who are already running for us? In what way can we be a model? Mr Cap, Mr Amon, what are we doing? Are we going to the West Railway Station tonight? I would be glad if we all went together to the Westbahnhof and put a sign that refugees are welcome here. That would be a big sign, and that would be what we could do – everyone in here could think about what we could do. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Darmann.]] You can also do something, Mr Darmann: Go there with your family and look at this! You're always talking about your family – that's fear-making, subversive fear-making that's not appropriate here and today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e14994	Next item is the report by Mrs Dr Belakovich-Jenewein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e15015	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! It is really good that there is the Freedom Party, because all the speakers in front of me have had nothing to do but use a good part of their speaking time to polemise against the Freedom Party. [[Call the ÖVP: Good for the stenses!]] I wonder, What would happen? You say otherwise? - You probably wouldn't have to say anything. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The picture on the government bank, Mrs. Inner Minister, is, of course, symptomatic: They are still sitting alone again today, in reality abandoned by the entire government. It is, of course, easy to put everything around a single minister – perhaps it will happen to me in the course of the speech – but it is already the responsibility of the general government, which has failed in the end. When I think – and I start with yesterday, yesterday at the Westbahnhof: What happened at the West Railway Station? – There are 3,600 refugees from Hungary, six people looking for asylum in Austria, the rest continuing towards the Federal Republic of Germany. Mrs Bundesminister, I now have a question: What about European solidarity? [[Abg. Beautiful: How does Dublin look?]] Is it not so if they are in an EU country that they do not have to apply for asylum? We're just gonna send more? Is this now the federal government's head-in-the-sand policy, all migrants and refugees who come to us, simply to pass on because we have no place, no place, because Traiskirchen is completely overburdened and overwhelmed? Is it not for you to think that the Bavarian Minister of the Interior was only on the 17th? August said: We have a huge problem at the border with Austria!? – This is a shame, please, for the politics we operate here in Austria! We put the people on the road and hope that they will leave Austria as soon as possible. Mrs. Federal Minister, you've got 1 with 1. August said that Traiskirchen is de facto too, we can't bring anyone there anymore. At the same time, you hear from your own officials from the Federal Office for Foreign Affairs and Asylum that persons who are being questioned are asked once, where they want to have asylum at all, in Austria or in Germany. And 90 percent say, of course, in Germany, because many of them are probably not known where they are. And then what happens? – Then these people are put on the road, they wait for the next tow to pass so they can continue. This is a policy that should be human? That's crazy! Mrs. Minister, by putting these people on the street, you're doing the business for the tugs. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you are driving on the West motorway from Vienna to Linz, you will experience something you haven't experienced in the past few months: See every few hundred meters She's white boxing weights with some east mark. No police wide and wide – every day: Morning, afternoon, evening hours – there are no controls. [[Abg. Darmann: Because there are no more police! We need more executives!]] You've got to get in there! You would immediately have the tractors that could pull you out of traffic and stop you – and by the way, you might also have the effect of recognizing broken vehicles. All this isn't happening. That means that this veil - as you call them - has failed. Therefore, there can only be one possibility: that the boundaries are dense. That's the only way. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We're slugging people through here, masses of people. According to Minister of the Interior Herrmann from Bavaria, 23 000 people have already crossed the Austrian-Bayern border in this year, illegally crossed! [[Mrs Hübner and Mr Höbart: Illegal!]] That shows what's happening here and what's going on here! It's not a flow of refugees because of a war, it's a mass migration that's taking place here. [[Abg. Hibart: international migration!]] If I may now deal with the speeches: Mr Lopatka said in his speech today: Many go on, but those who want to stay here... – It’s not about who wants to stay here. It's about: Who fulfils the conditions to stay here? [[Abg. Darmann: That's how it looks!]] That is the question we should ask ourselves – yet not, who wants! That's crazy! From your place of business, Mrs. Minister, figures show that 30 to 35 percent have recognition – those are those who can or may remain here; unfortunately, we cannot speak of them because if we welcome everyone who wants to stay here, we have probably exceeded our capacity limits already tonight. It doesn't work! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I've been thinking for a very long time about how to represent plastic, what we're going to experience here today or what we're going to experience this year, in 2015. Official figures from your place of business, Mrs Minister, speak of between 70 000 and 80 000 people coming this year. But if you talk to your officials in private, they are talking about 100,000 who are likely to come – and perhaps even more. If one tries to capture this in a picture, the following results: These are 100 000 people in 2015 alone, which is a city in the size of Klagenfurt. And next year probably more will come, that's how it goes, and the curve will rise exponentially, because we have 80 percent young men, men under 35 years of age, who will reclaim their families, their wives, their children over a short or long period of time. That means: That's just too explosive up there. That's nice, now we can say every year: We're building Klagenfurt again! But now let us ask ourselves the question: Where are we building it? What do we need infrastructure? We need hospitals, schools, kindergartens, apartments, and we also need jobs. All of this has to be calculated once. These are considerations that have to be taken into account here, but I have the impression that you do nothing but put your head in the sand – and with you I mean you as an interior minister, but also you as the general government, which you are all not present here. Please consider: Where is that to end, and how is it to end? Madam Minister of the Interior, how is this, perhaps you can tell us: Where have you got people since 1. What if you didn't give them to Traiskirchen? Is it true you put the people on the street? Is it really that you just entrusted these people to the next tow? If that is the case, I tell you, this is an institutional tow which is operated here – with the knowledge of the Minister of the Interior, with the knowledge of the entire government, also of the government. It can't go well in the long run. You see that the tow business is flourishing – that's the wrong way! That is why we demand – and this is the only way to put the craftsmanship in these people – a very dense network of border controls throughout the Schengen area, because it cannot be found here that someone who is illegally entering Austria from Italy or Hungary, for example, can simply go through here. I'll tell you: If he passes through border controls, he will be caught at the latest at the next border, that is, at the Bavarian-Austrian border. You have to make this net tight, completely, very tight. This is the only way to get under control of these migration flows, which are made up of illegal migrants, because one cannot be: that one abuses the asylum system here in order to allow migration to Europe. This is the wrong way, Mrs Innenminister, and then you, Mrs Innenminister, rightly also have the population against yourself. It won't work! The problem doesn't get any smaller. I think it will finally need viable solutions, because if you have a 1.5 percent quota this year, you might be taking a 3 percent regulation next year. At the curve we will have in the next few years, we are short or long but at 30 percent in each municipality. – I don’t want to see what happens there! They're taking it by sight that we're marching towards a civil war. That's what you should consider with all these things! There will be a struggle for distribution. The social systems are already empty. And it's young people who come here, they don't have a chance on the labour market. You know that, too. There are no jobs for them. Faith You're really saying that if that goes on, they don't even take part in the distribution struggle?- Oh, my God! Faith You really, it'll all be peaceful and sweet and maybe with a few flowers?- Oh, my God! These are young people who want to reach something here too, they have a single chance, and they see them coming here. That is why I ask you: Consider, at last, taking other ways, finally finding a solution, and perhaps getting up and saying: We need border controls!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e15171	I call Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e15192	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and in front of the screens! I believe that we should really try to discuss this very serious issue in such a way that every person, every person, gets involved in talking about people. We all in here know that we are committed to the Austrian Federal Constitution, to the legal status of our Republic in force; but we also know that the Convention on Human Rights and the Convention on Refugees are part of our federal constitution. Therefore, one should not draw an image as if one could choose x-anyone who is right or not right for legal considerations. I've often expressed it: Those who need our solidarity help, of course, also get them. But I think, in times when on an international level, let's look at Africa or in the Arab region! – the situation is becoming increasingly unstable and not more stable, we must put on several levels. I am glad that we have tried to find a good solution in weeks of negotiations, and I thank all the negotiators for this. There is actually no reason to be upset about this bill, because if all the federal states had complied with the Article 15a agreements, then we would not need this law at all, then we would not be here today. As I said, then we don't need this law – in all clarity, just so that you don't forget it! However, I would also like to say that at international level, we must achieve that the international community sees stability coming to these countries. And the European Union as a whole must try to solve these issues in a European way from European solidarity. In this connection, I shall be tabling a motion for a resolution today. One thing, however, cannot be: that at national level, that is, at national level, we always talk about solidarity and demand it from others, but in fact in the past few months and years we have been anything but solidarity. I would like to be respectful in civil society, in all NGOs – from the Red Cross to the Samaritans, from the Caritas to the Diacony – very cordial. I know. I can also thank the employees of the Federal Office for Foreign Affairs and Asylum, the police, the mayors who helped in difficult times to solve this question. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] But we would not have needed Traiskirchen in this our Republic, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. When we talk about solidarity, I have to say: There has never been anyone who cared about the refugees – whether they were unaccompanied minors, whether they were very young children, whether they were families, women or men – but no one cared about the city of Traiskirchen. And there was no one who cared about the Traiskirkners. We have tried for months to find a solution. I say it again: I really thank the negotiators. It was not easy for Mr Scherak to negotiate such a matter – I think it takes some time, at least as honest a time – but I am glad that we now have a proposal here, which is only for that reason – to take action! – because Article 15a agreements have not been fulfilled. So why are you upset? – This is a network, if you want to do so, where it is assured that, when something like that happens again, what we know from the past few months, the Federation, if certain requirements are not met, can intervene from solidarity considerations, from general government considerations. That's really it! And I believe that this proposal can be accepted at any time from humanitarian considerations, from fair and solidary considerations. We will still have the opportunity to discuss this in committee and also in hearing. That is why I have not understood the excitement today, where it has been said that there is no committee and no hearing, for all of this has been discussed in the Presidential and is well understood. This is a hard matter, not a question at all, but cleaner, I think, one cannot deal with this issue at all. And I am glad that we did this together with the Austrian Federal Government. I would like to thank the fact that three political groups have taken this path – in the interests of humanity! I would like to stress that once again. I'm happy about everyone who's voting in there and if one or the other shows up now. We've invited everyone to do this. Let me now make the following request from the point of view of the problem as a whole. [[Quoted print version removed]] I really invite you, in the interests of humanity, but also of justice, to accompany this legislative process positively in the next few weeks until decision-making and then to agree to the law. I would like to point out once again that we will also try to get a grip on the tow, because, ladies and gentlemen - and now no one can be angry with me - the effect is under the rule of murder, multiple murder. This is not to be discussed and simply not to interpret; so we know what we are talking about. We, as sincere democrats in a wonderful country, do not need such a thing to happen, and I therefore invite you to support this request as well.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e15296	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e15376	Next speaker: Mrs Maurer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e15397	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I wanted to go to the “Mensch in Österreich” demo yesterday evening at 6 p.m. in Vienna, but I didn’t come that far. I stayed at the Westbahnhof, and I spent the evening yesterday and most of the night there, also at the main station, with hundreds of supporters, with helpful passersby, with activists and with hundreds of refugees. And I would like to take this opportunity here today to report a little about it in the House of Lords, in this often all too high house. Yesterday afternoon, the Hungarian police suddenly and unexpectedly withdrew from the main station in Budapest. Thousands of refugees are camped in Budapest. We know that Hungary does not provide accommodation. The situation there is devastating. Even children have been thrown into prison, and everyone wants to leave, but they can't. And yesterday there was this corridor: Suddenly, the police were gone, and the refugees were allowed to climb the trains and drive to Austria. If you talk to the refugees who come from Hungary, you can see that they don't want to talk about it because it's so terrible there. These refugees arrived in Vienna yesterday afternoon or have passed through Vienna, continue to Linz, to Salzburg and to Munich. There have continued to be spontaneous passersby, helpful activists who have read this, moved to the main station or to the West Railway Station and brought water, fruit and other articles to support people. This was not a concerted assistance action by NGOs or aid institutions, let alone – of course not – from the ministry, but it was committed citizens who have responded heartily in this situation and have established aid and support structures there within a very short time that are looking for the same. Later, the ÖBB and the Caritas joined and supported. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] All supermarkets around the Westbahnhof have been unbought within a short time because these people – in private – bought everything that was to have in water, fruit, diapers, baby food. The same happened in Linz, also in Salzburg, as long as the people have come there. More than 50 interpreters were at the Westbahnhof and explained to the refugees how the situation is that they are sure in Austria that they can continue to Germany where they want to go. And that's what happened. Many are stranded at the Westbahnhof. Several hundred refugees stayed there tonight – even there without support from the state, but with great commitment from the ÖBB, the Caritas and many helpers. At 2 o'clock in the morning we drove to the main station, because there are also some stranded there, and I then talked to a Syrian, in the middle of twenty likely, who showed me the photos of his two-month-old daughter on his cell phone. He waited for his wife to be born and then moved to Europe as soon as possible to save his family. He wants to go to Amsterdam, because there the family togetherness goes faster, he believes. He said he can't wait two years to see his daughter again. He said: There is no life in Syria! – There is no life in Syria! He's in fear of death and he's taken all these risks to come here. Of the 3,600 refugees who passed through Austria yesterday or stayed here, not even ten sought asylum in Austria. The pictures from Traiskirchen, the situation, the absolutely inhuman accommodation, homelessness has spoken around. Austria is not regarded as a country of solidarity among the refugees; they want to continue to travel. If the Austrian government, if politics, if we all act as solidarically as the people who helped yesterday at the Westbahnhof and the Central Station and also at all other stations, were all as solidarian as the 20,000 demonstrators who demonstrated yesterday in Vienna, or the 3,000 in Linz – this evening there will be 1,000 in Innsbruck – if we all act so heartily, then we would no longer have the need to talk about a refugee crisis. The prerequisite for this help, however, is that people can come to Austria legally at all – and that is not the case. The corridor from Hungary to Austria has been closed for hours. The police have cleared the station in Hungary, Budapest, people can't leave the station again, they're stuck there. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: You do the laws!]] We need to create legal ways to enter Europe, including for the entry into Austria, so that people can reach us. For this reason, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Our solidarity is needed in this global, in this humanitarian crisis, in this challenging situation, and we can no longer look away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e15473	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place, and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e15540	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Hauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e15562	Mr President. Appreciate Mrs Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Listeners on the screen! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Today we are talking about the right of the federal government to access the communities. This is the real issue, and communities are being told that they are taking up too few asylum seekers. What is it about now? – I will try to talk a little bit about reality here. It is about the fact that people who have to fear their lives in their own country should receive asylum and, in principle, be grateful for having a stay in a safe country like Austria, a right to stay for a while, here safe, are provided here, provided with medical care. That's where every asylum-seeker has to say: Thank you, Austria, for having the opportunity to be so well received in Austria and to be in safety above all! And now, Mrs. Minister, you complain that the communities are taking up too few asylum seekers. High house! Do you even know what criteria have been presented to the municipalities for this purpose? I'm the 33. Speakers, and no one has yet referred to these criteria. Madam Minister, you make it impossible for the communities to take up asylum seekers. Do you even know that? I miss reality. This happens at all times to the fact that there is no reality in Parliament. It is discussed above, and what you ask for at the base, you don't know that. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, let me quote from this catalogue of criteria, which applies to Tyrol, which conditions are required by a municipality: a good connection to the capital of the state, since the asylum seekers must regularly travel to Innsbruck for interviews or support; [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pfurtscheller]] Kindergarten, school facilities, food supply in the immediate vicinity. – We have around 100 communities in Tyrol, which do not even have a food supply. Other requirements: Activities such as sports courts, children's playgrounds, cultural offerings – this is explicitly requested –; medical care within the municipality – more than 60 Communities no longer have practical doctors. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] Prerequisite for the property – ladies and gentlemen, listen to what is required here! It's a right to stay on time, a thought of protection: You're safe here! Requirements: quality accommodation – yes! Additional facilities for offices, seminars, courses and accommodations are beneficial. Helpful accommodation is suitable for disabled persons. And now it comes: Very positive is a usable outdoor area or a garden. Ladies and gentlemen, now you are local councillor, the citizens know these criteria – many citizens don't even have that! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And then you'll be surprised that communities, mayors and councillors – from which I protect myself – don't get over this latte. What did you think of making these extreme demands?- Oh, my God! Furthermore, the country's refugee coordination is requested: Social care includes assistance for a regulated daily structure, German courses, inclusive advice, leisure activities as well as support for mental treatment, medical consultation and so on. And now it's gonna be awesome: Now you are trying to distribute asylum seekers to all communities – all communities, extreme fixed costs, that is to finance! – This is not eligible for funding! Above all, you have shot far beyond the goal, because these claims do not even have – these are Tyrolean criteria – many Tyroleans. You're instigating these problems, you've done it. It is not we who are doing this, but you are making it impossible for the communities to actually act in the asylum field, because you have formulated criteria that are unfulfilled. That's how politics looks, and with this policy, you're incite racism – not us!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e15641	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Kumpitsch. - Please. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] – Mr Krainer, you have previously made an interlocutory call in which you said that this speech is an intellectual insult. I've let that go on, too. Please, Mr Kumpitsch.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e15671	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Minister of Finance! Ladies and gentlemen. Listeners on the ranks and in front of the screens! For Graz, the distribution key of 1.5 percent of the population would mean that the current level of 1 552 foreigners would increase to 4 113. You do not seem to be interested in what direct impact would have on the population of these enormous growths and how they are to cope with them. It is a point of order for the rule of law to exclude countries and municipalities from their competences and to take any legal remedy against them. The majority of foreigners, about 70 percent of them, are economic refugees who, once otherwise formulated, apply for asylum and protection under the terms of false facts and thus stay illegally in the country. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The fact that we are not able to accommodate refugees in consensus with the municipalities should therefore be the reason why one of the basic pillars of our constitution should be undermined and the autonomy of the countries and communities cut down?- Oh, my God! As a lawyer, I consider this Constitutional Law to be very prejudicial. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is not a solution to the real problem. Without community involvement, the planned measures will not be accepted. The logical consequence will be increasing displeasure in the population, escalation is preprogrammed. We should therefore ask ourselves why a federal government is going so far and wants to eliminate existing autonomy for decades. The reason for this can only be found in the previous political failure in its tasks, so that the country sinks into the asylum chaos. A key task would have been to fight the tow from the beginning energetically and with consequence. Cross-border measures involving the army should have been taken long ago. In view of the lack of power of neighbouring EU countries to stop the flow of refugees, the urgent need for border security would certainly be covered by law. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Economic refugees would and should have returned immediately to their home countries, as they took up the place and financial resources for people in need of protection. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I therefore ask you to: Take a distance from this legally extremely worrying change of the Federal Constitutional Law! Come on. You finally rethink your tasks, or hand them over to those who can still be trusted by the population!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e15753	Mr Ing. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party to the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e15774	Mr President. High National Council! Yes, Mrs Maurer, to deal more closely with your remarks should not be our task now, because what you have called for here is to open all the doors and gates for people who do not even know whether asylum rights actually prevail, which really affects the barrel. That's a scandal! Asylum status has our authorities to determine our courts – and not any green Members. Where are we going?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Just a few facts that I would like to bring, a lot has already been said today. First: We know very well that young men continue to find their way to us. It's strange, if Parliamentary Maurer at the station hears a story from a young Syrian who still has the birth of his child – so it is: Congratulations! - I got it. That is also what our authorities have to say. But the fact is, 80 percent of young men are looking for the way to us, and if they leave their newborn children behind their families, then there is something wrong. . I would not believe that this would affect us men from the Liberal Group. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Secondly, However, about half of the asylum applications are still negative. We can now say “Economic Refugees” that we can say “Hubert”, “Herbert”, whatever, to this: The fact is that the majority is still coming to us for economic reasons. That's another fact. Thirdly, The forecasts say that 80,000 people come this year, up to 100,000 next year. This has already been announced by so many speakers today, including our group. Yeah, please, where does that end? It's a barrel without a floor! And we're wondering how this should work. Who's to pay for this, please? And: Why do so many come to us? We have previously received a story from Mrs Reisinger. I read this: An Afghan family that has fled to Iran, from Iran to Turkey, from Turkey to Greece – EU territory – and then once again to Macedonia – we are back outside the European Union – from Macedonia to Serbia, from Serbia to Hungary – and then to travel to Austria or Germany. Yes, please, what are those states that rule?- Oh, my God! Here one must stop, it cannot be that we bear the main burden that Austria, also Germany, the Nordic states bear the main burden. It can't go on like this! The EU has failed on the whole, as has this Federal Government. You're simple and simple objectors, you're tolerators! They are unable to make a clear distinction between the actually needy, for which we too are confessing assistance from the FPÖ for a time. I say this quite consciously, because it should also be clear to you that the right of asylum is a right to stay on time – and not a permanent stay. But we know that this is often confused with immigration through the back door. We are also in favour, but it cannot be that we are really storming here by masses of economic refugees; our capacity limits are reached! To be honest, I do not understand that soon a 1.5 percent quota will be decided, next year by regulation at once 2, 3, 4 percent, because we will no longer be mastering this whole mass storm. We must now finally come to the point of protecting our national borders and, on the other hand, the EU's external borders and solving the problems on those continents wherever they finally come from.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e15840	Mr Klubobmann Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e15862	I will then also make a motion for a resolution, but Mrs Maurer has now challenged me because she has told such touching stories about refugees. Of course, there is much need in the world and, of course, there are many people who are threatened who are fleeing who want to build a new life who need help. That's not a question at all. The central question, however, is whether – and this is clearly what you want from the Greens – these people are getting away from their homeland by offering them these opportunities to come to Europe legally, according to the motto: We all invite the 4 million refugees who are now seeking protection in Syria to Europe. To do what? That's the central question. To give you security? [[Abg. Steinhauser: Don't read newspapers?- Oh, my God!]] We can do that on the spot. We can offer them the same security on the ground if we do only what the Federal Chancellor has mentioned, namely to set up protection zones on the spot and not at the EU's external borders. And that's the only sensible way. The only useful way is to make a protection zone on site, to offer them what seems to you to want from the Greens to give them on the laborious path to Euro-pa, to Austria, to Germany here on site, namely security. Or do you want to give them more than security? But then there are no more refugees of war if you want to give them more. But when it comes to safety, we can very well organise it on the ground, at a lower cost. And above all, something doesn't happen, that you depopulation the region. What you're doing here is a dangerous threat to Syria! What you are doing is an invitation to all Syrian refugees – and there is practically the whole country on the run – to come to Europe and build a existence here. What's that supposed to mean? They're depopulation the region! That is why it has failed a hundred times to keep people on the ground and give them security with a UN mandate. Now we will find out whether the Chancellor of the Federal Republic really means it seriously, because he claimed yesterday at the "Summer Talk" that he is for protection zones, he is for people to be held on the ground – what we have been demanding for months, for which we have been smiled and where it was called, we do not know what we are talking about. All of a sudden, they're all for it, but that's a good thing. I want to find out whether the Chancellor really thinks it is honest, and I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I am now anxious whether the Federal Chancellor agrees to this request. Because if he doesn't agree with that, then we know that yesterday was just a Sunday speech and he really wants to do what I said today, namely to organize new voters, who then choose him very well. And the ÖVP seems to want to organize cheap workers here. That's the background. If that is not the case, you agree to this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e15923	The application is sufficiently supported, properly submitted and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e15975	Next speaker: Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e15996	Mr President. Minister! Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! A new law of this federal government is to be launched with the help of the Greens, a new law, ladies and gentlemen, which should depress the refugee problem. The opposite, ladies and gentlemen, is the case: This law is against the domestic population. It is intended to allow for a right of access from the federal government as regards the accommodation of refugees in the municipalities. I firmly reject this procedure, ladies and gentlemen. This law erodes the federal states and the municipalities. The punishments for tugs – and that is true, has been addressed – should be greatly increased, and this is beyond question, so that such fates as in the Burgenland no longer occur. But, ladies and gentlemen, it is also urgent to question the causes of mass flight. I believe that this has been very little mentioned today, and the whole EU is paralysed as opposed to refugee problems. The measures taken by this Federal Government are not sufficient for the situation to be eroded. It is also true that there must be a fair distribution of accommodation in the EU countries. It cannot be that only a few countries such as Austria, Germany or Sweden are affected by this problem. It has to be helped, this is also out of question, but on the spot it has helped with the countries of origin of these people. We can't take up any more refugees. The causes, ladies and gentlemen, are a matter of urgency, because weapons are being delivered. Mr Vice-Chancellor said in his statement that the US was not to blame. I say: The US bears the main debt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e16038	This is what Mr Schmid has to say. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e16060	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Federal Minister! On the subject of right of access: The concept of the right of access means a diktat, the dictatorship of a superior body, and is directed towards a subordinate body and thus also towards the population. The camp camp in the area of the Schwarzenberg-Kaserne illustrates the shortcomings of a forced happiness carried out by the federal government. Although considerably smaller than Traiskirchen, the abuses in the camp of the Schwarzenberg-Kaserne are hardly smaller, according to a comprehensive press release. The action of the Federal Army is acknowledged, but it is precisely those activities of the Federal Army that have been rejected as system maintenance and have already been greatly reduced. The Federal Offices, in particular those of the Ministry of the Interior, are accused of far-reaching failure, so that the question appears justified: How should a right of access work large-scale if it does not work in detail without the assistance of private organisations? Refugee movement will hardly decrease in the foreseeable future, so the problem of accommodation will increase. The reception of refugees in the field of federal care requires various logistics. This is not given, as the experience shows. The state authorities, in particular the EU, have to face failure. To highlight positively is an assistance service by the German army, but not only in the food and transport sector, but primarily in border security, border security along the tow routes, in order to prevent such deplorable incidents with 71 deaths as in Parndorf. The understanding of the Austrian population is not boundless and should not be overemphasized by other problems such as Greece and the forthcoming signing of the Free Trade Agreements. Therefore, no right of access! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e16091	For a statement, the Federal Minister Mag. Mikl's head of speech reported. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e16113	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Dear ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and in front of the screens! Finally, allow me to make a request, namely to hold the asylum debate with more honesty in the future. When you look at the numbers: 1 600 refugees are to be accommodated weekly. However, countries only manage to over 600 refugees per week on average. .................................................................................................... And anyone who can count one and one knows that there are therefore 1 000 places a week. Therefore, it is not about the fact that in Traiskirchen there was a backlog, that tents had to be built, and that now a right of entry is also important and necessary. I also say this time: My greatest wish is that we should not take advantage of this right of entry, because the countries and communities themselves have it in their hands. It is gratifying that I feel movement and dynamics that I feel that more and more communities are saying yes, we are taking on refugees. We should not only discuss what is bad, what we can improve, but also talk about where it works well, where we have communities that provide exemplary assistance and support, exemplaryly dealing with refugees. That is why I would also like to thank you for this right of entry which I called for before the summer. I'm glad it's done in the next few weeks and with 1. It can be used in October. I can also say thank you Christian Konrad for taking over a kind of bridge function and improving the cooperation between the federal, state and local authorities and, above all, the civilian population. The migration flows in particular have led to a quantity and a dynamic in which many bridge builders need it. It does not only need the Ministry of the Interior, the other ministries and the Federal Government, since it needs the countries, the municipalities, because it needs a coordinator that motivates. That is why I would like to thank all those who say yes to this right of entry, with my wish that we should not use this right of entry once. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Let me just say a few words last week outside of this agenda item, when, on Thursday, tow crime probably showed her most ugly face when 71 people had to die brutally, and none of us can imagine what these refugees have been through. Not only each of you was affected, but, of course, the entire police. I was there, directly in Burgenland on site, in Nickelsdorf, when the National Police Director and I reached this terrible and terrible message. Especially in this distress, in this terrible situation, the police did what was important and right, namely to take one step at a time to start the investigation work in the fight against the tractors, in order to make the tractors particularly hard on the ground. I can say a warm thank you from this position from the National Police Directorate and from all the staff, to the judicial doctors for this really excellent work. If the suspicions persist, then we can really say that it is a great success, and of course it is now also about discovering the larger networks behind it. However, I must not only thank myself for this, but I must thank, above all, the police who really do the best up to the limit of their loadability. We know that, in the last year, the number of asylum applications has changed, and as you know, of course, everyone who comes to us as a stranger must be treated as a foreign police officer. This is an extremely intensive and comprehensive work and no simple work either. Again: Thank you for this great commitment! But we also need support for the police, be it from the various institutions, the federal army and many others, because otherwise it is no longer feasible and feasible. We must continue to provide staff in the future in order to achieve this. In this sense, the entire police have a warm thanks!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e16191	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hagen, fellow Members, on the 'Higher Penalty for Death Dragpers'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hagen, colleagues, on the introduction of temporary border controls in the federal states of Tyrol, Carinthia and Burgenland. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Scherak, ladies and gentlemen, on the position of an asylum application in a foreign office. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Schieder, Dr. Lopatka, colleagues on refugee movements in Europe and Austria. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is accepted by the majority. (E 108.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues in human beings, and allow legal entry. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ing. Lugar, colleagues on the establishment of UN protection zones in crisis regions. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is rejected. [[15:59:24]] 2. Point ESM Declaration by the Federal Minister for Finance pursuant to § 32h(4) iVm § 74d(4) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council on the granting of financial assistance to Greece
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e16295	We're now on the 2nd. Agenda item. Following this declaration, a debate will be held in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I give the floor to Mr. Federal Minister for Finance Dr. Schelling. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e16325	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! ==References== In July the House authorized me to accept the basic decision on the Hellenic Republic and the ESM Stability Fund. ==References====External links== I was then authorized to give consent as a representative of Austria in the Board of Governors of the ESM. I will be able to talk to you shortly about the decisions taken by the ESM Board of Governors on the following day, namely on 19 November. August, information. The ESM Executive Director’s proposal was adopted with the following key points: Stability aid is granted as a loan. This loan can amount to up to €86 billion and is intended to finance the public budget and to cover costs related to the recapitalisation and settlement of banks. The average duration of the loan shall be 32,5 years and the stability aid shall be at the latest 20 years. August 2018 available. Strict conditions are attached to the payout. The corresponding requirements shall be met in each case, and the corresponding review by the lenders shall ensure that further disbursements can be made. In this context, it is mentioned that these €86 billion can, of course, be reduced on the condition that the IMF participates in the third programme for Greece, which I assume to be. The IMF's conditions are different to those of the ESM, as the current programme from the second package in the IMF is still running until March next year, so that the IMF will not agree or not agree to the first steps of the programme, which has now been decided. According to the statements of the President of the IMF, Mrs Lagarde, the last days were still the issue of debt-bearing capacity to be discussed, and she found there that, as agreed, no nominal haircut must be made, but only a change in terms of maturity or periods of exemption, until when repayments are made, is necessary in order to reach an agreement of the IMF. The Treaty, which was now concluded between the Hellenic Republic and the ESM, essentially builds on four pillars. The first pillar is fiscal sustainability. In the case of primary surpluses, a set of rules has been developed, which has now come to a significant improvement in the possibilities for Greece to achieve realistically these primary surpluses. The second pillar is the guarantee of financial stability. Among other things, this concerns the recapitalisation of the banks, which are to be privatized after the recapitalisation has taken place. It is the third key pillar in promoting growth, competitiveness and investment, and it has also set up programmes that give particular attention to this issue of growth and competitiveness. I'll come back shortly after that. The fourth and crucial point – as savings are repeatedly discussed – is the large package on modernisation of the state and the public sector. The Commission's proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. A total of 23 billion were disbursed as the first tranche. These 23 billion are available to 13 billion of the Hellenic Republic, 10 billion are bonds for the recapitalisation of banks. Another 3 billion can be released after review in October. The programme provides that it can also be stopped at any time in case of non-compliance and non-compliance with the requirements. For Greece, this is not an easy task, but I would also like to stress that it would not be an easy task for any country operating under these conditions, because the reform steps that need to be set are well known and would be required in many European countries, from pensions to the labour market to liberalisation of markets, even to privatisations. But the Greek Government has made it clear and has also demonstrated by legislative decisions in Parliament that it has a firm intention to make serious progress in the implementation of this programme. Here again, I would like to say that there has been a so-called frontloading through Greece, far more than in programmes 1 and 2, and now more decisions have been taken than have ever been made in Programmes 1 and 2. This shows the seriousness of both parties to return to a successful path. However, this opportunity for a new start is also linked to the fact that Greece is aware that any reform, no matter where it is to be implemented, can only be successful if one recognises the need for these reforms and is willing to implement them. As far as growth is concerned, a learning process has also emerged from the first two programmes if one wants to do so. It has now been established in Greece in the context of this growth strategy that Greece will develop such a growth strategy with the involvement of the social partners, scientists and experts and will then implement it together with the EU. It is now said by many that the new elections in Greece may cause problems for this programme. We do not see this as a significant part of the opposition has also agreed to these programmes, and we therefore assume that this Treaty, which was concluded with the Republic and not with the Government, is actually being implemented. The next step will now be to make a commitment from the IMF about participation in the programme. A further step will be to identify the capacity to bear debt in order to make this step possible for the IMF as well, thus ensuring that the IMF participates in this third programme, which runs for more than three years. There will be ongoing reviews of the achievement of the objectives of this programme by the respective institutions. From the ECB, an asset quality review of the Greek banks will soon be carried out if one wants to do so, a stress test according to the requirements we need for recapitalisation to ensure that the market of the banks actually works so independently that one can resume capital traffic controls, and then it will be possible to refinance these banks accordingly on the capital market. I believe that this Memorandum of Understanding has found a very, very good solution. I also believe that the Greek representatives are aware that this is something like a last chance in the view of the lenders and that everyone is aware that the one who wants to implement it successfully, especially first and foremost in itself and not in the others, how to ideally realize such a programme. The aim is to bring Greece back to a growth rate in the economy within these three years, in order to be able to set the corresponding impulses themselves. The aim, however, is also to bring Greece back to the financial markets and to be able to carry out appropriate recapitalisation through these financial markets. Of course, many will now ask what will be in three years. – In fact, no one will really be able to answer that. I can only report from the Eurogroup's point of view that the measures already adopted in the Greek Parliament have made an incredibly strong contribution by Greece this time, and that the reviews will certainly be very careful to ensure that there are not only decisions, but also that these decisions will be implemented into reality. After all the examinations of the documents and measures, the Board of Governors decided to give this third programme the appropriate consent to ensure the first tranche's disbursements, to put the first review of the measures in October, or after the elections and the constitution of the new government, and then to decide whether and in what form the further disbursements will take place for Greece. A significant part of the volume will be needed for old debt, a significant part will also be needed for recapitalisation, but a large part is also intended for investment, for growth. In the coming weeks, the discussion will also be held as to whether Greece can participate in the European Fund for Strategic Investments, formerly Juncker Plan. In addition, there are considerations that those parts of the Structural Funds, which are available for investment in Greece, may be structured in such a way as to allow use – either through restricted or no co-financing at all or through other measures – so that the Greek economy can get out of this valley. I can also report that the Greek Minister of Finance has informed us that there is a slight economic growth in Greece, partly marked by strong tourism through the wonderful summer that has also prevailed in Greece. However, it must be ensured that this growth also leads to the necessary revenue for the State. As a result, when considering this new third aid programme and the Treaty, it was clarified that this objective could not be achieved without a radical modernisation of the administration. Therefore, the EU Finance Ministers of the Greek Government have pledged that appropriate technical support is available for Greece. There is also a proposal that those employees employed at EU level who come from Greece should remain on the EU's salary list but be sent back to Greece over a period of time to help, on the basis of their language and mentality, to achieve this modernisation shift for administration. I assume that this programme will be implemented. The commitments of the Greek Government are promising, and if implementation succeeds, it should be possible that, within these three years, with this third programme, which we have now adopted, Greece will again be on a good footing, ensuring the stability of the euro, but also geopolitical and geostrategic stability throughout Europe. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e16441	I thank you for the remarks. Mr Podgorschek. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e16465	Mr President. Federal Minister! Unfortunately, I can no longer address your arguments in detail, because I do not have enough rest time, I can only say so much: We have now decided for five years rescue packages, debt funds have been set up, and Greece's debt has increased from €80 billion to €300 billion. Now we're going to return €100 billion to Greece. What's the end of the story? – Greece has lost its financial sovereignty to the greatest extent and has been placed under the control of the EU Central Bank. The EU's headquarters has now come to an end. We have a Fiscal Union. It will apply not only to Greece but also to all other countries in the future, because Italy and France are already at the door, and then we have the next problem in the house. With its demand for NATO closure, the US has maintained at all costs, and at the end of the day, at the expense of Europe. With the breaking of the no-bailout clause of the Treaty on Lisbon, a transfer union has been established which now affects more or less all other countries. Greece itself is not excused, not reformed, but is only temporarily kept over water, and the people in Greece will not feel anything of the whole at last. The European donor countries are again burdened with new debts and permanent subsidies. Ladies and gentlemen! This debt orgy in Greece and Europe will continue, but with a so-called euro flood – the euro will become increasingly soft – and instead of saving more money will be pumped into the euro zone. Instead of a due state bankruptcy in Greece, one has only won time in Europe, but takes on a later total bankruptcy. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We don't do anything but throw a lot of money into a barrel without a floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e16524	The next item is Mrs Tamandl's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e16546	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Podgorschek, the arguments your party and your group always bring in these debates are simply not correct. These arguments also do not help solve problems. I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for Finance, who has given us intensive information at two meetings of the Standing Subcommittee in ESM matters. He himself has always argued very carefully, always putting the Greeks' task in the foreground and emphasizes that the Greeks simply have to comply with the conditions under which this third aid package – the first time under the ESM Rescue Screen – can take place. As the Minister of Finance has already said, the Greeks have already made intermediate payments, which they have failed to achieve in the last two financial packages. Of course, the government still in office or now replaced by an interim government in the negotiations with the euro countries and with the Euro partners has not given rise to fame: Of course, it could have gone much faster. If there had been serious efforts by the Greek government, the existing aid package could have been continued for a long time, and all of this would have been saved. However, I believe that it is probably better now under the ESM Rescue Screen, as the conditions could be completely redefined and one has made it clear that no further money will flow if the conditions are not met – and compliance will be evaluated as the Federal Minister has also done. On the concerns of all those who believe that Greece's debt capacity would not be guaranteed: This, of course, also seems to many to be a good argument for refusing aid to Greece. I always explain this to people: If a family needs money to buy something to make an investment, but, for example, does not get credit from a bank, then it goes to the relationship and lends itself money. Greece is now lending itself money from the relationship, and this cannot be done without conditions, that is of course, because no one would be sending money unconditionally. As far as debt sustainability is concerned and the demand to think about a debt cut now – Mr Kogler and some others always demand it; this was also called for before the negotiations with the Greeks on the technical statements on this package went into the final phase –: [[Abg. Kogler: I don’t say that!]] In my opinion, this would be a bad signal, and the Euro-partners have also agreed that, at least, one cannot understand a nominal debt cut, but possibly a delay in repayments, the further extension of maturitys. It should be noted that interest rates of 1 percent for a country that does not receive money on the capital market are anyway insane. I am convinced that, under these conditions, one can quite agree. I therefore understand, and I have already stressed this at the last special meeting and also in the Committee, that the position of two political groups in this House is not: I do not understand the attitude of the Greens in this regard and I do not understand the position of NEOS in this context. [[Abg. Podgorschek: We understand, don't we?]] If the first rate of loans – and it is, please, for loans!, not for gifts, but for loans that the Greeks have to repay – is only due in 2023, then I do not understand why we have to discuss a nominal debt cut at which they have to be paid back. [[Abg. Rossmann: Because the debt mountain will continue to rise!]] In principle, Mr Kogler and Mr Rossmann, if you want to get help, I think you could agree to this package, after all, a regular supporter of the ESM aid programme is also a debate in the Budget Committee, in which we are informed quarterly. That is, there we always see the results of the evaluation. The fact that such packages bring up countries is very likely to be seen in the ESM, for example in Spain and Cyprus: These countries have a higher economic growth, and these countries are getting better in control of their unemployment. So I do not think it would be possible to defuse everything in the past. Our group will, of course, vote in favour – of course not without a critical eye on how the Greeks and the Greek Government will stand after the re-election of this package.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e16614	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e16635	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! We will still be able to address the arguments of Mr Tamandl, just as much: In fact, the arguments have already been exchanged, due to the procedure agreed by the Federal Constitution and Rules of Procedure of the House: that the Standing Subcommittee in ESM matters is the placet for the Federal Minister – he has also reported it. Today, there is, so to speak, the informative reference, which is also important and correct. However, from our point of view, the fundamental assessments and assumptions have not changed significantly, and you will therefore not be surprised that, because we did not even agree to the opening of negotiations for certain reasons, we do not now agree. Mr Rossmann will go into depths here on individual points, especially as regards the Memorandum of Understanding. In fact, we had two things to say: on the one hand, the conditions under which this so-called financial assistance takes place, and on the other hand, the measures directly from the ESM itself. All in all, this is, of course, a European issue, a matter for the Euro countries. On the occasion, let me make another bridge to the previously discussed person – at least it pushes me to do so: It is striking that the euro countries, the Union, in 2008, 2009, 2010, could not go fast enough when the so-called financial crisis broke out. Conferences have been held within three hours. Under the Battle of Emergency, measures, special constructions, along with existing European institutions, were created, partly past the basic idea of the European Rules of Procedure and Law, and all very quickly. In fact, it was often not a question of saving the countries alone – not at all at all – but of saving the financial system and thus saving the financial market players, if you want to: the financial institutions, yes, banks. It was often not able to go fast enough in these whole years. However, if we look at how long this conflict has already raged in Syria, with the word “doubt” as an auxiliary expression, and how slow, how little ambitiously ambitiously and how slow some Member States – and now I am expressly not saying: the European Union, but rather individual Member States, unfortunately too many – are, then this must also be mentioned in the context of financial issues. I think it unbearable that on the one hand – this can now be ideologically judged, on the left or on the right or on the front or otherwise – packages are bound all the time, but when it comes to Syria and issues of survival, the state community fails. I am not even talking about any human rights, I am talking about naked survival. Moreover, in the context of Syria, I am no longer speaking of refugees, but of displaced and persecuted persons, namely murder and torture. For years, the poison gas strikes have been known in Syria. I know The Commission's reports of the United Nations Commission on the evidence. – I can already remember the actions of the ladies and gentlemen in the media, partly crying because they have seen in this demonstration films, how children are afraid of these poison gas attacks in the middle of the residential areas – that is, what is still a residential area. Against this background, individual Member States are ready to pursue the advance of a more reasonable, but also more honest, and above all more human, solution for so long?- Oh, my God! The community of states, as such, is also difficult or fails, so I can do something about Chancellor Faymann's approach to building up pressure in this direction, but this discrepancy is so unbearable that it cannot actually be understood in words. I dared try anyway. – In addition, we must also remember that those countries that are also the crisis countries – Greece, Italy and cetera – are also getting more support on this issue. As for the current issue, the Memorandum of Understanding – by the way, I will mention a few positive points, even if the criticism outweighs, therefore also our rejection –: We have already recognized, and we have exchanged in detail, Minister of State, that the members of the Board of Governors of the ESM, essentially the Finance Ministers, are now actually more focused on real developments and, for example, the demands on the surplus budget – well noted: The surplus in the budget, in this recession, in which Greece has been reintroduced and which is likely to continue even longer through these programmes, is indeed being purchased, almost as a Rosskur – a bit reduced in terms of gross domestic product. But Bruno Rossmann and I are of the opinion that this is still too optimistic. On the other hand, it would probably be more encouraging if larger parts of these budget surpluses – if they were already available – remained in the decision-making power of the Greek government. Now only if over-fulfilled will this possibility be opened up. It also seems positive to me that, in the fiscal field, at least more effort is being made to improve the structures, and secondly, to increase the obligation of the so-called or actually existing rich people. Whether it succeeds this time or brings something, we remain skeptical, but at least there is a new start in this regard. In addition, this approach will be better if the other European countries help restore the black money, which amounts to over €100 billion, which has been brought abroad, mainly to Europe, – if you like – once again. But that just needs more pressure and the cooperation of several. In the tax field, of course, the increase in mass tax, VAT, remains negative. It has a similar effect as if money is taken out of the money cycle. But our main focus remains – and this is also my last point – the ability to bear debt. Mrs Tamandl has already mentioned this point and rightly quoted us or me or half. We do not see the capacity to bear debt in the form, even if the President of the IMF, Mrs Lagarde, has now used other sounds in this regard – she is a pragmatically landing place wherever we have been: There is now no nominal debt cut and it does not even need it in the form – even right, Mrs. Tamandl! – you should be just as honest and mention the subject of a debt cut here. After all, this needs a design that you can already have in mind now – precisely the stretch- Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. That's just driving ahead, and I'm excited about what that really looks like in October. Whether the IMF is on board or not, only one difference concerns the amount, but in principle it was that one argues more openly and honestly, because the consequence is that then, even if it is only in 2023, we have the debate again and make it easy for the others to say: We've always known that everything doesn't work anyway! Not even the economy of the Federal Republic of Germany would get along with this debt burden without further delay, and that is why one should be a trace of honesty – that is our concern. Finally, the Ministry of Finance's efforts to act with Parliament are not to be mentioned. We set the dates for the committee in good time, they had to be postponed, that was all understandable. We were also informed this time, as well as we were. As far as the information of the public is concerned, we lean behind – in the Bundestag in Germany you can already read all the decisions in detail on the homepage, not so with us. But I hope you will.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e16727	Mr Krainer came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e16748	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I have not understood exactly why the Greens do not agree. [[Abg. Kogler: That's what we argued last time!]] But perhaps Mr Rossmann can make up for this. I shall try to hear from Mr Rossmann perhaps why the Greens do not agree with this. What's happened so far? – It is not the first time we have discussed Greece here. It is also not the first time that there is an aid package for Greece. In any case, the previous aid packages have succeeded in halting the collapse of the Greek economy and the domino effect that it would have had on other countries. There's been a private debt cut. All private creditors to Greece had to write down about 50 percent of their claims. That is to say, there has been this private participation. It was not only a “privileged profit, socialising losses”, but also the private had to pay. What has also happened is that the Greek budget has been greatly saved. There, in the social sector, actually in all areas – with pensions, salaries, sausages, where – you saved quite massively. What has not happened is that investment has been made. What has not happened is that one has taken care of growth, employment and the like. Have the packages been successful so far? – In part, yes, in part not. One cannot say that these savings packages were successful if at the end of the day youth unemployment tripled, if general unemployment doubled, and if millions of people do not have health insurance. Then you can't say that politics was successful there. In connection with other figures, one has to say that she has been successful. Yes, the deficit of Greece is much smaller than it is in most European countries. But the essential questions were not successful. What is going to happen to this aid package? – It is not true that these 86 billion or 87 billion – or perhaps only 83 billion – will run into a barrel without soil, but about 80 percent of this money will return to public households. The money is used to refinance debt to pay interest to public budgets, whether it is the IMF, bilateral loans et cetera. 80 percent of this money goes back. 25 billion of this money travels into the recapitalisation of the banks. This is the requirement for banks to be able to lock up there at all, so that pensioners, employees there have access to their account at all and so that there is any chance that an economic cycle will take place again. We must not forget that there the banks were locked up for weeks and the economy has been falling asleep more or less for weeks. Yes, part of this money has already been used to ensure that the economic cycle goes on in any way at all. A part is used for public budgets, and a part is of course also used for the financing of Greece itself. The question is: What is the alternative? As a proposal, it has always come again and again: It would be much better if they went into bankruptcy and reintroduce the drachma again. To this end, we need to know that about half of the food consumed by Greece itself is imported. Will the cheaper be when Greece rises from the euro and introduces a drachma? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] - Probably not. They probably got more expensive. [[Abg. Peter Worm: The Greek farmers...!]] About 90 percent of the medicines used in Greece are imported. Will they be cheaper? – You can’t afford the drugs for a large part of the population there today. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] So to believe the drachma would be the solution of all problems is wrong. In any case, from the Greek point of view, the problems would become bigger and not smaller. Would it be cheaper for us? – The European Commission expects only humanitarian aid for the next few years to cost at least 5 billion to 10 billion. If you expect this to be five years, you are close to what this package is all about. That means whether it would be cheaper for us is more than questionable. Above all, there would be no longer any return flows from the previous packages, which are still available so far. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] At any rate, I believe that this is also a parallel to the discussion we had in the morning, a damage to the European idea. The European idea is that it is not egoism in the foreground, but solidarity, it is not only about what is good for me, but also about what is good for both of us, what we can do together, which common path we can find in order to find a better perspective for both. Yes, both in the refugee question one sees that the European idea has been damaged, and now in the debates on the Greece package one sees that egoism is on the rise and that solidarity may be mentioned here and there, but less and less is lived – the European idea is based on this solidarity – and that is, of course, a disadvantage. [[Abg. Rossmann: That's why you agree with this package?]] The last question, where Mr Rossmann says this, concerns investment. A major problem with this package is that there is no money for investment in it. There's actually no money in there! This idea to use all privatisation proceeds beyond €25 billion for investment – the 25 billion are not at all reached this size. [[Abg. Rossmann: The chancellor said yesterday...!]] That means that what we need for Greece is also money and resources for investment. They're not in this package. These are partly within the ordinary European budgets. But it is about the fact that this money can really be mobilised, because without investment in the Greek economy, there will be no economic growth there, there will be no more jobs there and there will not be an upturn. The question is where this money is – in the packages it is not yet in it, and that is anyway missing. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e16844	Mr Hable has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e16866	Mr President. Minister! High house! Estimated citizens! We NEOS could not give our consent to this third so-called aid package, because, as the name says, an aid package would have to help anyone. This has been precisely the basis for our decision that this package will help first Europe, that it will help second Greece, and that thirdly, it will be responsible from the point of view of Austrian taxpayers. This package does not help Europe! It does not help Europe because solutions are being pushed out again. Over 60 percent of the total financial resources go into the operation of debt. That means that new debts are taken up to pay for old debts. That's not a solution, it's a push-out of solutions. Nor is the ability to bear debt, that is to say, the condition that the ESM is active. That is also the reason, Minister of Finance, why the IMF is so pleased: because the IMF can only allocate funds when the debt is given – but it is not, we know. If the ESM goes into action here, then of course the European Treaties, our rules that we have given ourselves, will not be complied with. This too cannot help Europe, nor can it serve the European integration project. Secondly, This package does not help Greece. Why? – A very strict consolidation course is foreseen. From minus 1.5 percent primary deficit, this will be improved to plus 3.5 percent in the next few years, by a total of 5 percentage points. Of course, I would like to stress this, because it is always a matter of austerity – the world is not governed by austerity Apostles, but rather by debtors, even in Austria, we should not forget that – to bring expenditure into line with revenue, also in Greece, but if you do, you have to relieve the pain associated with it, because, of course, economic performance will fall because, of course, unemployment will increase. In order not to do so, it would be necessary to start with and improve competitiveness. But that's exactly what I don't see in this package. It is nebulos the speech of labour market reforms, of product market procedures, which is relatively little in it, as the paper is very thin. The Greek government, Mr Tsipras himself, said only a few days ago that he wanted to continue to resist exactly in this area. This means that the Greek Government's responsibility to implement these reforms is still not available. There is also the solution to the problem, the responsibility. The key to the solution is not in Brussels, it is not in Vienna – it is located in Athens by the Greek government! The necessary economic policy reforms must be implemented there. Because this package does not serve Europe as a whole – this is important for us NEOS as a glowing supporter of the European integration project – because it does not help Greece either, it is overall not responsible from the point of view of the Austrian taxpayer, the Austrian taxpayer. Unfortunately, we cannot go along with this path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e16923	Mr Auer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e16944	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr Schelling has, as I have said, explained in detail, precisely and clearly what it is all about. Now you could say you agree to the package, we hear from the opposition that it does not agree. This is the case of the respective party, but I still believe that it is very clear from the remarks that clear conditions have been drawn here. If my previous speaker said it wouldn't help because there were no conditions, he obviously missed something. The fact is that only in tranches will be paid out if the conditions are met. If after the review is so to speak assured that the condition A is fulfilled, there is the payout, the second, the third, the fourth. It is therefore clear that there is a relatively sharp and clear approach here. Mr Podgorschek said that the EU headquarters had, as it were, presented the dictatorship on Greece: The debt orgy would continue, the euro would become softer. – I would like to remember the introduction of the euro. At that time, there were some pessimists who said: What do you want with the euro, it never has a chance against the dollar at all, that is not a means of payment of the future?- Oh, my God! Your group, my dear colleague, was also involved in the debate and as an unacquainted caller. Let's remember: When the euro was introduced, it stood at 1.18 dollars. Then there was actually a time when the euro fell: to 0.82, 0.83. There were your muscles strong, because there was exactly what you feared. Then came the time when the euro stood at 1.56 dollars. There was the great lamentation, especially of your group's business colleagues and executives, that one cannot export with such a strong euro, that is a disaster! Now the euro stands at 1.12 to the dollar, at least today's afternoon, and we are able to export. We have benefited from this course, from this currency all in Europe. If it is said that this package does not help Europe, this package does not help Greece, then I say exactly the opposite: This package helps Europe! [[Abg. Podgorschek: apples and pears!]] This package helps Greece, and this package is also responsible. Perhaps we ourselves should remember that Austria-Hungary in history was a total of nine bankruptcys. [[Abg. Podgorica: Greece even more often!]] Had it not been for the help of many creditors at the time, history would have looked a little different. European solidarity must therefore also be ready to help the Greeks in the interests of the whole. [[call to the FPÖ.]] - We'll see. I've been in this house so often, just from this side, that everything would be nothing: Everything is wrong, everything is to be revoked!, I have only heard to this day no other positive proposal, always just: We are against it, and that is with full force! – I tell you, Mr Podgorschek: That's a little too little!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e17009	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e17059	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! If you, Mrs Tamandl, refer to the examples of Portugal and Spain, I would like to point out that the most radical in history was the savings package that the Troika has ordered Greece. This can be proved well with numbers. In Greece, public service wages are reduced by 24 per cent, in Portugal and Spain by 15 per cent and 3 per cent respectively. Social transfers are stagnating in Greece, and in the other two countries they rise by 12 per cent and 34 per cent respectively. Overall, government expenditure in Greece fell by 12 percent, and in Portugal and Spain, it rose by 18 percent. In Greece, the total wage decreases by 27 per cent, and in the other two countries, only 8 per cent. This very situation, this radical savings programme in Greece, has led to a social and humanitarian disaster in that country. It is precisely this savings package that is to continue with this Memorandum of Understanding, which is based on a decision of the European Council, because of failure to succeed! Why is this Memorandum of Understanding not the way out of its misery? – I would like to mention six reasons for this. First: It is not an aid package for Greece, it is a package that is good for the creditors, but bad for Greece. €54 billion go to the lenders – the ECB, the IMF and the like –, €25 billion from the €86 billion to the recapitalisation of the banks, €7.5 billion is a financial reserve. Federal Minister for Finance! I don't see where there's room for investment in growth. Mr Krainer rightly pointed out that there is no money for investment. There is simply no point in eliminating the humanitarian catastrophe in Greece and in boosting the economy. Secondly, Primary surpluses are enforced with the brittle rod, although to a somewhat disintegrated extent compared to the Council Decision of 13 December 1990. July. But still very sharp and still to an extent that Greece will certainly not be able to vote in the long term. This year alone, Greece still needs to implement a savings package of 1.25 percent of GDP in order to achieve the target set in the primary deficit of 0.25. That is to say, the vicious circle of the spasm is maintained. Unfortunately, this will intensify depression in Greece, with “more of the same” the problem will not be solved. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Third point: Tax increases and savings are at the expense of low income stakeholders. This means cuts in internal consumption. & View Mr Kogler has already pointed out the increases in mass taxes relating not only to tourism but also to goods of daily needs: Meat, flour, rice, dairy products and the like. There will be further reductions in pensions, no pension increases in the next few years. There will be further, new pension reductions by a health levy in the order of 6 percent. However, from 2016 there will also be permanent cuts in social budgets of 0.5 percent of GDP. Compared to this, the savings in the military budget are just too micky: 100 million € this year, 400 million € per year. But not all that has been decided on, including in tax matters, is bad: for example, the increase in luxury tax, the fight against tax evasion, the fight against undeclared work, corruption, the reform of public administration, active measures for 150,000 long-term unemployed and the like. Well, not everything's bad. But still: It will not be enough in this form. Let us now take a look – and this is my fifth argument – at the privatisation proceeds, which in the long run amount to €50 billion. Funding for investment will not exist at all in the next three years from this asset development plan. Zero! $6.4 billion will be saved. But it is planned that investments can only be promoted if €25 billion is reached. And after reaching this €25 billion, the second €25 billion will be able to invest half of the €50 billion. This is an aberrant plan, which will probably give rise to a fug and right to say: of growth boosting not a trace! I therefore cannot see how Greece should be freed from this situation either. Sixth argument: Debt-bearing capacity will remain an illusion unless a restructuring of debt or the issue of debt-cut will be more honestly discussed. It is a historical fact that there is not only a need for strong internal reforms – they are being addressed, that is true – but these internal reforms must be linked to debt cuts, debt restructuring and external debt facilitation, otherwise further social outrages will occur in this country. The conclusion from all this is: We will not agree to this Memorandum of Understanding or have done so in the Committee because it will lead Greece deeper into depression. What we need would be an alternative with perspective. But an alternative with a perspective would require a complete rethinking in the European Union with a view to the economic and fiscal discourse. I clearly do not see this change of course. I don't see any participation in thinking and acting. I see no steps of reconciliation and insight. In conclusion, I would like to use a quote to indicate a step in reconciliation, as Roosevelt did at the end of the 1920s, when he said: “The measure of progress is not how much we add to the abundance of those who already have enough, but whether we succeed in giving to those who have too little of what they need to live.” This applies not only to Greece, but also to the solution to the refugee problem that we are facing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e17148	Next, Mrs Mag. Muttons. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e17169	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Rossmann, the Greens in Germany have nevertheless agreed to this Memorandum of Understanding. That's very interesting, then, how far your opinions are going apart. I'm with you: It is hard to say that everything that has so far been done in the framework of the Greek negotiations has been smooth and smooth. And it really cannot be said that the previous rescue programmes have brought the success that we so much wanted. [[Abg. Rossmann: We would also not have decided, Mrs Colleague.]] Of course, we are also wondering what this is all about, and it is clear that – I am also with you – it was only due to the people acting in Greece, but above all to the wrong policy of the Troika. It must not be forgotten that the Greek governments have not ruled on their sole responsibility for the last five years. Greece's policy was also largely responsible for this troika, and hence also for the measures that did not work in Greece. We must learn from these mistakes and look much more closely at the Troika and the institutions, as they are now called. The European Social Democrats will do the same. The European Parliament has already drawn up proposals to strengthen democratic control of the Troika and to make the work more transparent. Control and participation are important points. Control and participation give both the Greeks and the Austrians security that the aid funds are used in a meaningful way. It is therefore important to redefine cooperation. What we need is cooperation that represents real support. We expect the EU institutions to recognise weaknesses on the ground and help with expertise and work on concrete solutions. For example, experts from all over Europe should help to build effective tax authorities, the judicial sector, as well as the establishment of a functioning social system and a health care system. What we have clearly seen is that the pure concentration on savings does not lead to any result. That's known now. You can't get out of a crisis, you can only grow out of a crisis. However, we must always have the social situation and employment at the centre of our reflections, otherwise there will be no outgrowth. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rossmann.]] Finally, the European Parliament also comes to this conclusion in its analysis of the Troika policy. That's what it says: ‘Economic policy must serve employment.’ And it goes on to say: “The EU must... invest in long-term, environmentally friendly and sustainable growth”. The rapporteur was Othmar Karas, ÖVP-EU Member. One of the pillars of the reform agenda, which we have already heard today, concerns growth, competition and investment measures. At the same time, however, efforts must also be made in Greece itself in order to take action on the reform agenda. However, as we return to a growth path and create secure jobs, not only is it a question that we need to clarify in Greece, but that is the big question throughout Europe. We see that it is still a long way to convince the conservative forces in the EU that this one-sided austerity policy does not lead to success. But there are movements. There are movements in the European Council. Federal Chancellor Faymann, together with France and Italy, has already set important impulses in this direction. In addition to growth impulses, Greece also needs a functioning state that is not characterised by corruption. With Syriza was for the first time a party to the government that did not originate from the old power games. Former Prime Minister Tsipras announced the fight against oligarchy, nepotism, black work and tax fraud. A basic book is finally to be introduced. An action plan against undeclared work has been announced, and an anti-corruption plan is intended to restore confidence in policy. All of this is crucial for the people of Greece, but also for the rest of Europe, because only a functioning state, a state apparatus in which one has confidence, can ultimately also be interesting for investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e17219	The next item is Mr Themessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e17240	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Auer, you are convinced that the third aid package will help. I don't know how you take that optimism from. [[Abg. Auer: I don't know how you have the pessimism!]] The first aid package did not help, although, according to Fekter, it was generously created at the time, the second aid package is stuffed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Tamandl]] A mid-term debt of the creditors did not help either. Now you are convinced that the third aid package will help. Okay, your optimism in honor! To your accusation, we would not have put forward any proposals: We already pointed out in 2010 that it would be a barrel without soil and that a euro exit would be the more reasonable one. Scäuble and Schelling also felt that a euro exit of Greece might have to be discussed until four months ago. I do not know where Mr Finanzminister's change of opinion came from. I am also convinced that he is not convinced of the present package. Mr Finanzminister, here's something to you: In the Committee, Mr Podgorschek asked when we could expect the fourth aid package. You have answered that there is no fourth aid package among you. What you might imagine would be a so-called start-up financing if the economy did not come to an end. – So if the start-up funding comes, is that, I don't know, not a fourth aid package? It will then be titulated differently. On the whole, I tell you: What you've been doing for five years is a bankruptcy. They're helping with it. In the final analysis, a fourth aid package will also be needed in order to boost the economy. You know very well, Minister of Finance, that someone who does not earn money cannot repay debts. If we already speak of €300 billion in debt in Greece today and if the economic growth in Greece – even if the signs are not so bad at the moment – is not prepared to spray optimism, then I ask you or I also know why you are not convinced of this package. I have been watching you over the last few weeks, and I tell you, Minister of State, you are not convinced. One more thing to conclude: Mr Federal Minister, you said you have confidence in the Greek government that it will implement the measures. Now I ask you: what government? The Tsipras government, which has decided on the cost of savings, no longer exists. [[President Hofer gives the bell sign.]] At the moment, a transitional government is on its way. And as the new government looks forward to the election at the end of September, you don't know and I don't know. So in which government in Greece You put your trust, I would still be interested – if you could answer that briefly. It remains, we have always said, it is a barrel without soil, that has nothing changed, and it is the wrong way. [[Call SPÖ and ÖVP:Ready time!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e17299	Next, Mr Magistrate. Zakostelsky to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e17317	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The European Union was known to be already in very turbulent phases in the first half of the year. [[President Bures takes over the presidency again.]] We can remember that it was actually five to twelve, as one expresses it so beautifully, it was an agreement in the last second between the EU and Greece, which brings with it the third aid package. This was indeed necessary in order to avoid Greece's inability to pay. An exit scenario of Greece from the EU has already been discussed in these days. I believe that we are all happy now that an agreement has been reached, because the consequences of such withdrawal would not be taken seriously for the EU as such or for Greece. Ladies and gentlemen, an important measure on our part was that we should be here in this House on 17 November. In July, our Federal Minister has granted a negotiating authority to bring about these negotiations effectively and to support them at international level. Unfortunately, this decision was adopted on 17 March. ==References====External links==* Official website I asked myself seriously at the time, ladies and gentlemen, where remains Your sense of responsibility? The main elements of the agreement have already been implemented by our Minister of Finance. If I see some argument that has gone on here today – it would lead too far to go into it in detail – then I would like to sum up very briefly: I think we actually need a middle path. Of course, it can't be a question on the one hand – I'm already with you – to send an aid package in the sense of a gift on the journey. Of course, we are very responsible to our taxpayers for the fact that money is handled very consciously and carefully – so, of course, on the one hand, there is no aid package as a gift. On the other hand, it requires more than just European solidarity – and indeed economic awareness – that it is important for Europe as a whole to exercise this solidarity that we do not simply drop a country. It is precisely this route that has been chosen in the aid package which the Minister of Finance has already outlined in detail and precisely, namely a package of aid with very strict requirements and, consequently, very strict controls. The famous sustainability has already been discussed. I think we all know that the Monetary Fund is only responding to such an aid package – which was also clearly communicated by Lagarde – when the sustainability is considered to be given. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kogler.]] The fact that Greece can actually vote this sustainability has been formulated by a number of conditions. It is, of course, about implementing these: on the one hand, repaying aid loans only from 2023, providing these repayments with a very low interest rate, and also providing for the duration of the repayments accordingly long. [[Unrest in the meeting room.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the noise level shows that the meeting already wants to end – and I am here with you, but I do not wish to miss out on this point, too, that we have seen, on the occasion of the case of Greece, that there are some weaknesses within the European Economic and Monetary Union. I believe that it is essential to point out that a common monetary policy without a common economic policy can lead to major distortions to manoeuvrability. In the future, we should perhaps look at the so-called plan of the five Presidents presented in June of this year. For those who did not: Presidents of the EU Commission, the EU Parliament, the Council, the Euro-Group and the European Central Bank are represented. The path of a stronger development of the European Union up to a political Union by 2025 is clearly defined. I am convinced that Europe will only be able to cope with these challenges very efficiently and cost-effectively for taxpayers in the future. On the way, ladies and gentlemen, I am quite clear about the third aid package. I am convinced that it is necessary and, as already explained, it has been negotiated well and efficiently. At this point, the Euro-Group or the Board of Governors and accordingly our Minister of Finance shall be entitled to acknowledgment. Ladies and gentlemen, in summary, I believe that we can say together that it was very important to our Minister for Finance on 17 November. In July, it was decided to grant this negotiating authority. I hope that the members of the opposition have now recognised this and that they may also be aware of it; one can stand for one's own ability to learn. That is why I cordially invite you to take the decision today. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e17399	Mr Klubobmann Lugar came next. Your group still has 4 minutes of remaining speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e17421	Madam President. High house! If you look at Greece and the discussion about aid packages and so on, you can see one thing: What Greece needs is an exit from the euro. The problem that Greece has is the euro. When you look closely at it: Greece did not meet the convergence criteria at the time of the introduction of the euro, nor did it meet the convergence criteria today, nor will it meet them in the foreseeable future. - That's the problem. That's what we see in the refugee debate. We make rules, such as the Dublin agreement, where we can move back accordingly, and then, if we need it, we do not stick to it. We have done exactly the same with Greece. We left them in the euro, we invented very strict rules, and then we simply didn't stick to them. And even now, we don't stick to it. Even now, Greece would normally have to leave the euro, because the Greeks do not meet the convergence criteria, not all of them. They will not fulfill them in the future. Nevertheless, we keep them in the euro. - Why? If we release them from the euro, Greece could help out of its own strength, and this would clearly have failed this European project, this euro – and that is because it has forced uneven states that do not fit together into a Eurocorset. That'll become visible. That is why Greece is forced to stay in the euro. However, they cannot recover in the euro – no chance – because they cannot devalue. We have the situation in Greece that imported olives are cheaper than domestic. That's what the euro is doing. The euro generates a trade deficit of more than 10 percent each year. Anyone who understands a little bit of economics can calculate that Greece with the euro never gets on its feet. But you don't want to say that, Minister. That's the problem. You would have to look into the truth, so to speak, and release the Greeks from the euro. Some of the debts would then be gone – they would no longer be repayable – but Greece could save itself by its own power. They could introduce their own currency, devalue it, and then they would be competitive again. But you don't want to. They prefer to send 86 billion of good money to the bad one, then extend the term over 30 years, according to the motto: What concerns me is a problem of the future, which is three, four, five times the problem today, if I do not have to solve it today, if I do not have to stand up today and tell the truth, that the money is lost. The money is lost and the Greeks can only get back on their feet if they leave the euro. But you have to tell us the truth, and you seem to be not ready, Minister, for I have always had to say in the Committee that you yourself have no great pleasure with the whole thing. You yourself have said this is the last chance, it can also go wrong, we will stop it at any time as soon as it goes into your pants. – It will go into your pants, and if it goes after your reading, probably only in a few months, perhaps in a few years. That's exactly what you're speculating about. You speculate that the problems will only become visible in several years, then we will have reduced another €100 billion, but perhaps it will be your successor who solves the problem and not you yourself anymore. But this is a policy for which no one should be available, and we should not. Mr Minister, you admitted to the Committee itself that Greece cannot survive with the euro. Greece has 7 percent industrial rate, Greece produces very few things, and they are just too expensive on the world market. And the euro prevents Greece from devalued so that it becomes internationally competitive again. That's the point, Minister. That's what you should say, it's honest! Everything else is an dishonest policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e17479	Next, Mr. Dr. Cap will speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e17500	Madam President. High house! I would just have argued that we should also look at what Mr Finanzminister has said in his report and not at all as the main point of his report. He said that the third package also contains elements that should have growth prospects with which investment should be possible. That's what he had inside. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rossmann.]] – I just want to critically question this, Professor, you can relax. [[Abg. Rossmann: Show me that!]] I just want to question this critically, because he says that we should make changes to the Structural Funds, that co-financing should not be made as strict, limited or as far as it is concerned; and he has meant that we may have to think about the Juncker Plan. I don't know how that's supposed to work in the privatisations, either. I don't know what to do so you can invest. But we are here to speak to the Minister for Finance. We want to know whether this is really the direction that he has suggested so carefully, or whether this is just to calm down the plenary session today, so that perhaps then more agree than most believed. This correlates a little with the ESM Chief Regulating, who in the trade sheet speaks of extending the duration of the loans and reducing interest rates. Now it's 32 years, but it's supposed to be 40, 50, 60 years. Suddenly, the International Monetary Fund comes, probably on pressure from the Americans, and sets up a completely new calculation to enable them to enter this package too. So there are some kind of changes here, because nothing is more critical of what has been happening so far than the German media – which are very well, as here in the “handelsblatt” four weeks ago in a graphic presentation, explain where these €85.5 billion and if there is revenue €93.7 billion go. [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Please show us!]] After this graphics, there is nothing left for investment, I say quite openly. And the editorial in the “Handelsblatt” says: Where's the business model? Where is something that the Greek economy can recover? Two weeks later, the Marshall Plan for Greece, so often referred to, still does not exist. Of the new aid billions, no money is provided for concrete investment projects. The meaning of my insistence is as follows: I see the rule, I see the editorial, I see the graphic, I see that we have a decision to make today, and I see that the Minister of Finance and here also some voice, and also in the Monetary Fund, make indications in the direction that there could be investment and growth. I think this is very important, because if the state reform means pension reductions, job cuts and social reductions, then it will not only lead to growth and purchasing power strengthening, but will continue to go down to the depths. That's the crack for the third package, and now we're gonna see what comes out. That is why I only plead for these indications to be heard a little more precisely and to try to interpret them. I still do not understand why the Greens do not agree. What you're doing here at the speaker's desk: You swing between the individual microphones argumentatively, and in the end I don't know why you're voting against it. [[Abg. Kogler: You above all do not know why you are for it!]] I still don't know, but I'll try to listen even more carefully the next time you try to agree that you're going another way. Finally, I just want to say one more thing. One should not forget – because there is always such pity for the German taxpayer: Between 1996 and 2004 under the head of government Simitis, by the way, exactly the time when Greece agreed to join the euro area, it has developed a plan for arms procurement of €25 billion. Then Konstantin Karamanlis came from the Conservatives, and from 2006 to 2016 he has planned arms purchases for 26.7 billion € – the geostrategic, Mr. Finanzminister. You rightly stated earlier: This is where the geostrategy, armament and reward criteria play a role in perhaps consoling the obstinates and generals who have once made a coup. That's where they say, okay, you get a few hundred million or billions and you can make arms purchases. But the most important thing is: Between 2005 and 2009, the state was one of the five largest arms importers in the world! And the very best thing is that between 2001 and 2010 Greece was the most important customer of the German arms industry. Greece accounted for 15 percent of all German exports during this period. They have a total of 1 000 Leopard 1 and Leopard 2 tankers. That's 30. ==References====External links== The German media, as I said, are very critical about this. I am just saying that my compassion for Mrs Merkel and for the German taxpayers is extremely limited, because, in fact, they have done their great business, especially when Greece entered the euro zone. [[Abg. Podgorschek: We don't sell Leopard!]] You've got to see these interrelationships! But what can the poor Greek citizens and the citizen do to keep their minds on all of this? – That is why I am in favour of this investment programme and this growth programme. [[Abg. Rossmann: What growth programme?]] By the way, today's day has proved: Nothing's the way it once was. We're just going through a turn of events. We have military conflicts, in the consequence of which millions begin to wander and, so to speak, make changes from geostrategic conflict situations – Ukraine, keyword Iraq, keyword Syria, keyword Libya. Therefore, a common EU foreign and security policy is needed. But that one simply falls down regimes and does not know what is going to happen afterwards, then nothing helps to bring peace there as quickly as possible, which leads to the development that ultimately millions start to wander. We also need to discuss the root of the problem, namely the lack of economic prospects for those living there, and also the lack of peace – and we need to discuss all of this in the future when it comes to a new global order, namely, as a prerequisite for the world’s justice. That's the single most important thing.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e17601	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. The agenda is exhausted. [[17:18:42]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00089_d8e17626	I am still announcing that in today's session, the self-employed have received requests from 1295/A to 1306/A(E). Questions 6330/J to 6374/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council, which concerns the re-election of committees and business communications and allocations, I call at 5.20 p.m., which is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
