ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00063_d8e4611	Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a good morning and open the 63. Meeting of the National Council, which is based on a sufficiently supported request in accordance with § 46 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure. The Official Protocols of 61 and 62. Meeting of 25 March 1990 On 1 February 2015, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. As an obstacle to today's meeting, MEPs are Kirchgatterer, Lipitsch, Matznetter, Preiner, Amon, Auer, Gerstl, Rasinger, Belakovich-Jenewein, Deimek, Schrangl, Peter Wurm, Zinggl, Nachbaur, Dr. Franz, Alm and Schellhorn. Mr. Bundeskanzler announced his intention to make a statement on the issue of “Definition of HTA Asset Resolution AG”. There is a request by five Members to refer to this declaration in accordance with § 81 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure. [[09:06:06]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00063_d8e4658	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00063_d8e4872	I also say that the Sixth Report of the Inconsistency Committee has been distributed to the members of the National Council. Let's go into the agenda. I announce that this meeting will be broadcast live from ORF 2 to 11.50 and from ORF III. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00063_d8e4898	The following agreement was reached between the members of the Presidential Conference on the design and duration of the debate on the Federal Chancellor's statement: Declaration by German Chancellor 20 minutes, a round of speakers with 10 minutes each, member of the government ÖVP 15 minutes, and for a maximum of three more speakers, the political groups are available for 13 minutes each. Speaker sequence: 1. Round: FPÖ, SPÖ, Greens, ÖVP, Team Stronach, NEOS. All the following rounds: by group strength. We shall now proceed to the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign in this regard. – This is unanimously accepted. [[09:07:38]] Declaration by the Federal Chancellor in accordance with Article 19(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council on the settlement of the hypo-degradation bank HETA
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00063_d8e4942	We now come to the Federal Chancellor's statement. Following this declaration, a debate will be held within the meaning of Article 81 of the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the request made by five Members. I now give the floor to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany to give the statement. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00063_d8e4969	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I think we agree that it is the best case for the fire brigade to prevent fire in advance, because prevention always helps most. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Either it burns or it doesn't burn!]] And that is why the right conclusion from the hypo-debakel is that liability in the order of more than €20 billion, which then took over the Carinthia governed by the FPÖ, should not be taken over at all. But I am not yet talking about criminal history – the courts are now busy and have already made convictions. And that will probably not be the last thing that shows in this context that criminal operations have also determined the hypo carinthia very strongly. If the fire brigade is expressing to clear a fire, there is hardly anything like a method that pleases everyone, once it is the extinguishing water that causes damage, in other cases there are other complications that arise. I would therefore like to carry out a lot today on the most recent development – and this is my task – and on the decisions to deal with the ITA, and to assure you that the Minister of Finance and, subsequently, immediately thereafter, the government did not have the opportunity to choose between optimal and very good solutions, but it would have been best not to make such a resolution at all. Without taking over the liabilities of more than €20 billion, we could have saved all of this. I would now like to comment on the current developments. ==References== The Board of Management of the HETA informed the Austrian Financial Markets Supervisory Authority on the preliminary outcome of the so-called Asset Quality Review on February. This resulted in a need for value adjustment in a range of between € 5.1 billion and € 8.7 billion. At this wide range you can see how uncertain and unclear it is, even if people who do not check for the first time are to make a prognosis on the exploitation of assets. This requirement was faced by an equity of approximately €1.1 billion from the HETA to the loss cover. Within this range, on the basis of the first results of the auditors entrusted with the asset quality review, the Executive Board was called the most realistic impact value of €5.7 billion. The HETA and subsequent financial market supervision have therefore approached the Federal Ministry of Finance in its capacity as the owner of the Republic of Austria with the request for an opinion on the willingness to take further capital measures. The capital requirement was stated by the Board of Directors of the ITA in a range of between €4 billion and €7.6 billion and – accordingly – €4.6 billion for this so-called most realistic impact. All – I emphasize, because this is a special merit of the Minister of Finance in the coordination during these days and hours – all available options have always been highlighted with an expert group consisting of representatives of the Austrian National Bank – you know that I have an important role in the decision on how the credit quality of Austria is and how any damage can be assessed – the financial attorney, external specialised lawyers, auditors and capital experts, as well as with the Financial Market Supervisory Authority, and the chosen procedure has been jointly supported by them. This coordination is particularly crucial because it is not a matter of implementing the solution of any expert who is used to focusing on solutions in the private sector which, of course, are quite different for the public sector. All the political implications, all the consequences for the credit quality of a country, all the estimates required here, are to be assessed, not by one who is imagining something, but by a group of those who, on behalf of the Republic, have the responsibility and bear the responsibility. ==References== In March, the Finance Minister of the Financial Market Supervision announced that the owner of the ITA is not prepared to adopt further capital and liquidity strengthening measures. Financial market supervision in its function as resolution authority has therefore initiated a settlement procedure, also based on an opinion of the Austrian National Bank, in accordance with the federal law on the restructuring and settlement of banks, the BaSAG, which has been adopted in this House. The Minister of Finance has agreed to this measure of financial market supervision, and the Federal Government has agreed to this decision by the Minister of Finance on the same day, just a few hours later, at a meeting of the Council of Ministers. It was a confidential meeting in order not to disturb or even negatively affect the necessary procedures in advance of the invitation. There was, however, a meeting that took place immediately thereafter, at which the Minister of Finance also presented his presentation and his Council of Ministers' presentation, which is public, which you know. In these days, the Minister of Finance has spoken and answered the other members of the government to explain and explain this procedure. The question that some have asked me from this House, namely whether I am taking the path of the Minister for Finance and thus of the entire government, can be clearly answered with Yes through this decision. As early as July 2014, the hypo special law established the basis for a unit of degradation. ==References====External links== October 2014 their bank concession back and, as you know, has since been run as a unit of degradation under the name of HETA Asset Resolution AG. At that time, the Republic had already had to spend €4.35 billion of tax money in the form of capital grants and 1.2 billion in the form of guarantees for the Hypo Alpe-Adria. On the other hand, in order not to mention this, because the banking representatives regularly criticise us as a government for the highest bank levy in Europe – which naturally has interest in the stability of the financial sector of the Republic – that is not a debt allocation to another bank, but an interest in stability – totals € 5.1 billion in revenue from the bank package and the bank levy. I wanted to face this to make it clear here: We have the highest bank levy in Europe, measured by the population and by our size. In December 2014, the Federal Law on Bank Rehabilitation and Settlement was adopted here in the National Council. The basis for this law, which must also be mentioned when we often discuss Europe and European directives and the Banking Union, with all the advantages and disadvantages, which have been decided here in this House for Austria, is a European Union directive, whose essential objective is to relieve public budgets and thus taxpayers of the costs of resolving a bank. Only this European basis, which we are rapidly implementing, has enabled in Austria the possibility of a resolution in the form we have now chosen. On this legal basis, financial market supervision as a resolution authority can now designate measures in the public interest and also a participation of creditors. In its capacity as resolution authority, the Financial Markets Supervisory Board decided to establish a moratorium on all the liabilities of the HETA until 31. ==References== In this period, no debts are paid by the HETA and no interest is paid. Thus, the opening of insolvency proceedings on the assets of the ITA was prevented. As a result, no liability for the liabilities of the HETA will be assumed at present. This applies in particular to the liability for the liabilities of almost €11 billion, which the country of Carinthia and its national holding still bear. The sale of the Bank's South East Europe network is also possible through this process. It is now the task of financial market supervision to appoint creditors to participate. Summary: So there are three alternatives to the election: first: a commitment to continue financing the ETA with tax money not yet fully known; second: an insolvency with the known impact on the Kärntner national liability; and third: the settlement after the settlement process possible since the beginning of the year. The procedure chosen was necessary from the point of view of the Minister of Finance. Both the National Bank and, as I have mentioned, the other institutions of the Republic, together with the Ministry of Finance, have developed this procedure. That is why the government has approved this report positively, and I would also ask you to support this procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00063_d8e5033	Thank you, Federal Chancellor. We are going into the debate on the German Chancellor's statement. The speaking times are known to you. Mr Klubobmann was the first to speak. I'll give it to you and set it up for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00063_d8e5063	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! It must already be noted that it is a bit strange that the opposition had to take place first, that we have the honour today in the context of a special meeting that Mr. Bundeskanzler will comment on the billion hole at the hypo-degradation company HETA. That's what I'm saying: It is nice that you have followed the opposition's invitation on the government bank today so many times so that we can finally hear the German Chancellor's statement and also treat this strange and, yes, today's hole created on tomorrow; of course, that's more than strange. I say that this also shows a little lack of respect for what you, Mr Bundeskanzler, obviously have in front of this House. This cannot be explained otherwise, because you, as Federal Chancellor, would of course have had the obligation to make a statement from here on your own. This is actually the expectation you have had on you that you have not complied with – but only on pressure from the opposition. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Stroll.]] Of course, you were employed, Mr Bundeskanzler. I understand. They were busy with the tax reform, you were busy with it after it was presented – which in fact represents nothing but a retranslation – apparently to praise yourself and to stand in front of the mirror every day and say: That's great. - if no one else praises you. But if you stand up and say that you are the self-proclaimed fire brigade captain, then I have to say with all appreciation that the fire brigade should have run out in Munich, namely before a nationalization without need. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] At that time, the Bayern area of responsibility was finally, and if a fire broke out there, as you represent it, then the fire brigade there would have had to run out, and then it is even more incomprehensible why, in 2009, one took the fire object from Bavaria to Austria and until today, as fire chief, did not succeed in eradicating that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] You have to ask this critically if you are trying to do so yourself as an example – where the flames have finally bloated for six years and again and again become manifest in this area of fire. [[Abg. Heinzl: Where is the arson?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] Of course, the old leader always comes again and again, no question – and that was not necessarily revealing in the speech –: Haider's to blame! We have known this Der-Haider-ist-debt-Gemmer for years: a person who is dead, who has had nothing to do with nationalization without any need, who has not been able to intervene even since 2009 – and that in view of the fact that nothing has happened, has been the case, and one has finally made the worst decision with a mining company, instead of seriously examining an orderly insolvency, as they have proposed large parts of the opposition. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinzl]] [[Abg. Rädler: Where did the fire come from?]] That is how it is, at least once – you have to hold this almost cynically; we thank ourselves as subjects – that we today have the opportunity to discuss it and to light up this hypo-trage. The case of HETA is, of course, the logical consequence of a chain of dilettantism, as Mrs Griss also pointed out, which has very probably also shown the different responsibilities chains. I can only repeat because this is apparently necessary – repetition does well –: Yes, in Carinthia, all parties have agreed to this irresponsible liability. Yes, everyone, the FPÖ under Haider, the ÖVP, the SPÖ and at the end also the Greens, as Mrs Griss has held. [[Interlocutory calls from Members of the Arbitrators and Walser.]] Yes, that was irresponsible, not a question. After the sale of the hypo, there were other owners who were responsible, who should not have been released from their responsibility. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] Due to this negative development of nationalization without need and further inactivity, the damage to Austria has finally been turned to 100 percent, which could have been prevented. So, of course, this diletantic government policy since 2009, with the nationalization without need, is ultimately also the main debt that you have repeatedly denied. Apparently you didn't know that much at the time, Mr. Federal Chancellor. The “profile” reported on the decision to state without need – I quote – the following: "Evil tongues say stubbornly that Faymann had the night of negotiation from 13th to 14th. December – in which the most expensive decision of the Second Republic was made – was spent in bed.” There you can only say: I hope you slept well! I'm glad you didn't hide in bed today, come here and make a statement. [[Call at the SPÖ: This is such a deep thing!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] I say there are two alternatives: either the scenario chosen by the government with a payment moratorium, which ultimately moves the big showdown once again to a future time, namely 2016, or a smooth cut in the form of an orderly insolvency, a bankruptcy. These two possibilities exist, and we have been discussing them for some time. You have to choose a clean, transparent and secure solution, namely an orderly insolvency – in our view, as we have requested from the outset – through a proper court. That would also be the best solution for taxpayers. An orderly insolvency means, on the one hand, a clear, transparent procedure in an independent court. In the end, one moves on legally known terrain. This has the advantage of a high legal certainty on the one hand, low legal and advisory expenses, secure prospects for success and a strong position of the Republic on the other, namely, with affordable future costs for the federal government, without any collateral damage to the financial centre and ultimately the reputation of the location Austria. That would be particularly important. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Therefore, please stop with the fairy tale, which has also become evident in your statement that in the event of insolvency, the outlaws of the country of Carinthia would immediately be beaten! – No, Carinthia is in a process that can take years and will last, in the liability chain at its very end. First of all, all assets should be used. That wouldn't be beating from today on tomorrow. The payment moratorium, on the other hand, is a legally unsafe matter with which we also move on new legal ground. There is a need for a high level of legal and advisory effort, and the prospects for success are uncertain. The position of the Republic is weak, and there are inevitable future costs for the federal government and also high damage to the Austrian financial centre. By the way, it is also critical to question how this high consultation costs have been incurred in the context of the HETA, but also the hypo. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is about hundreds of millions of euros, where I also wonder how this is to be accounted for and justified at this level – with all the experts who have been used there as a whole, who have tried again today with National Bank and Financial Market Supervision. I have to remind you that financial market supervision has also been dramatically mistaken in the assessment of the mortgage, apparently many, many mistakes have occurred and, of course, one will have to critically examine financial market supervision up to the National Bank in the context of the responsibilities of this negative development. The damage should be eliminated by the Republic as much as possible. This is ultimately necessary, that is our responsibility, which we all have. This should actually be in the foreground and not the interests of large banks – where you sometimes feel that it is being tried to leave the outside ahead. These are the interests of the Austrians and taxpayers in this context. I can also imagine that in the autumn budget negotiations, the hypo may again be taken as a pretext to try to make a difference in the tax reform presented on its own. That would be more than sad. If reform, then there was a need for sustainable structures – as we have already noted – and not a development as it has been presented in the last few days, namely that there is pure tax shifts, tax increases and no fight against cold progression, that more net of gross will be re-eat by cold progression in two years, in the end people will no longer have net, but the rise will remain and in truth we have even higher loads in the Second Republic than that has been the case so far. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wöinger: 2004!]] You hear a lot of rumors, Mr. Federal Chancellor, too, that a lot of criticism is pervaded from your own ranks and that you are apparently sawing at your chair. The mayor of Vienna has already made it quite clear to you yesterday in connection with the advertising of advertising, who in your party has the saying. He said: “He does whatever he wants, we do what we want”. That's what Häupl said about you. Furthermore, Häupl ironically meant that he trusted you in advertising, because of that he understands something, Werner Faymann. Yes, you seem to understand something as a self-proclaimed fire chief, but unfortunately God until now is not really successful in the fire extinguishing. [[Abg. New builder: He needs a few more courses!]] And as I said, if you are already trying to do this, you really have to critically question why the fire object was brought from Bavaria to Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Crist.]] In the end, I really wonder why you're still doing this. It is quite stressful if one has to experience again and again in one's own political ranks that one does not necessarily like it. But it's not about the wish, it's about responsibility, it's about the fact that there's been a lot of misdevelopments, where you can't stand and you can reduce the eternal play and pity on the fact that a liability decision is to blame for the entire wrong development. – No, there are bad developments that have come after that, and they also meet you in your responsibility.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00063_d8e5245	The next item is the speech by Mr Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00063_d8e5266	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Klubobmann Strache, when you take the word “responsibility” into your mouth, it sounds as if a blind person is talking about the color, because what the liberals have proved is that where they have borne responsibility, they were as irrantious as no other party in the history of this Republic. [[Oi Rufe at the FPÖ]] [[It is in favour of SPÖ and ÖVP, as well as of Green MEPs.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] If you are producing yourself here and with loud false interpretations of reality, against better knowledge, you have to say here give one wrong thing after another and then in fact only top it by unnecessary, deep interruptions under the belt line, then this is a style that is clearly to be rejected. [[Call at the FPÖ:For example?]] [[Abg. Kickl: What?]] [[It is in favour of SPÖ and ÖVP, as well as of Green MEPs.]] [[Abg. Podgorschek: That was very “businessy” now!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] I believe that if we talk about the HETA and the hypo in general – I will come in detail to these questions – then there are four essential questions that need to be answered. The first is: How did this damage come about? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nice.]] The second question is: How do we keep this damage small? The third question is: Who pays for this damage? And the fourth question is: How do we prevent the next time or what do we learn from it? These are very sober and pragmatically the four questions we have to ask ourselves here. And if we start with the first question of how the damage has been done, then of course it has been created by the irrantious policy of the liberals in Carinthia. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nice.]] There's the damage, there's the responsibility. [[Abg. Podgorschek: emergency nationalization or nationalization without need!]] And no, this is not only a former head of state Haider, there are also other names: Dobernig, Pipeberger, Strache, Dörfler, Scheuch and how they all are called. [[Abg. Podgorschek: Emperor! That's nice. - Oh, my God!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] This is an entire list of those responsible, which, in part, still have a room in the Federal Council today. The former head of state, Dörfler, continues to sit a space, and this is the way in which responsibility is written among the liberals [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: arsonizers!]] The arsonists sit here in the protection of immunity in the Freedom Club in the Federal Council. This is how responsibility, personal and political responsibility is written among the liberals. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusions of the Abg. Kickl.]] If you say that the problem was no longer a Carinthian problem that had been sold to Bavaria, there was no more problem in Carinthia, then the following question arises: Why did the liability stay in Carinthia when the bank was sold? [[Abg. Strache: Bavaria could never have gone into insolvency!]] Because the bank's liabilities were in Carinthia at any time. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Why didn't you just hand over these liabilities to Bavaria when you sold the bank? Why did you do that? [[Abg. Strache: The Bavaria could never have gone into insolvency, we would not have nationalized!]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] The following is to be feared: Because you or your liberals in Carinthia believed that this is a great business: I assume a liability, get monthly and annual millions of euros, and once something happens, that's so much that I can't carry it anyway, that pays anyway the covenant! – This is the responsibility of what freedom policy looks like: You're supposed to be another one. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Furthermore, you claim here when it was in Bavaria, the Bayern were responsible. – Look, you can quote the Griss and her report here a hundred times, but then do it right! – Yes, Mrs Griss said that the Bavaria had a risk of €6.1 billion in this question – because the question was, let them go into insolvency or not. Then they would have lost €6 billion at one time, and the Republic took over. [[Abg. Strache: had not been registered insolvency! Had they not been able to afford it!]] The question is, with a lot of these $6.1 billion, did the Bavaria go home? With how much? – I can tell you: with a euro! They either lost their entire money or left it in the bank and still do not get it. [[New call to the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kogler: Oh yes! - Oh, my God!]] The entire risk that the Bavaria had exists with them to this day. They got a euro, a single euro. And for the rest: 3.5 billion have just been cleared away, and over 2.5 billion we are fighting with Bavaria in court. Now you can already discuss whether it would have been better to cash the €2.4 or €2.5 billion at the hearing, in order that it will now be disputed in court with the Bavaria, but here to do as if the Bayern would have gone out better through the emergency stateization and would have gotten their whole money back, is wrong! You need to know. [[Abg. Strache: They knocked on the shoulder and opened champagne!]] The Bavaria had 6 billion risks, and they went home with a euro. They have already lost the rest of the money, or they are still arguing about it in court. This is the truth, and not the shame you always tell us about the chains of liability that had turned around, that would not have been the responsibility of Carinthia. – This is wrong, and you know that, and stop claiming false things here without responsibility! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: So you pulled the Bavaria over the table?! A whole new one!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] Next, what you said here: You said that if there was a bankruptcy, everything in the bank would have to be used first and the liabilities would only eventually be beaten. – That’s wrong, and you know that! [[Abg. Deimek: Out of custody!]] In the event of a bank insolvency, Carinthia's liability will strike the next day – not at some point the next day; because it is a guarantee of default according to ABGB, and that is to be taken immediately. [[Abg. Strache: Outstanding liability is always the last!]] Carinthia can then get out of the bankruptcy mass, which is still there. Not the creditors have to wait, Carinthians have to pay right away and then wait for what still gets it. You know that, and stop claiming false things here without responsibility! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The question of how we keep the damage small is a question that has been constantly occupied here, even before the emergency stateization. While you have been negotiating with Dörfler, Scheuch and others, how you are re-merging – because you did not take part in the debates on the emergency nationalisation of the hypo here in Parliament, because you were currently busy in somehow restoring your family composition and merging with Scheuch and Dörfler – here were the debates where we talked about how we can minimize the damage. [[Abg. Wöginger: There was only the Petzner!]] You have not been interested in this, because that would mean responsibility, and that is a part of politics that the liberals do not have. We have already said before the emergency nationalization: This will cost money, that is clear to us, and we will ensure that not the broad bulk pays it, but that we look, for example, at bank charges and over others, that those who benefit from the rescue, and those who are the causers, also make their contribution to the payment of this bill. Mr. Federal Chancellor Faymann said this perfectly correctly before [[Abg. Deimek: Did you write his speech to him?]] To date, we have taken over more than €5 billion through the bank levy and the bank package. That is, to say here, with the nationalization or saving of the mortgage we would have wanted to do something good to the big banks – well, they have received the invoice, and the invoice they pay year after year, because even this year they have to pay, and they also have to pay next year. We have already collected more than €5 billion from the banks in order not to put this account around the pensioners, the unemployed or the workers, but to see that those who have benefited from the rescue also make their contribution. [[Abg. Rossmann: How much have we spent?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] This is true social democratic policy, and also the policy of the EIA, one must say, because we have always taken this path together: that we have said who should pay it and that the banks should also make their contribution. That is what we stand for, and that is also a right policy. We have already taken over 5 billion. On the next question – now I have to pick up a little – as far as the federal states are concerned: The Lower Austrian Finance Council, Sobotka, who rather by unpleasant statements with Philippi and I don't know what happens, who also plays a strange role in the interior, has taken the following picture in a television discussion: The father is the covenant, and the children are the lands, and one of the children has bought a Ferrari, and now the father says he doesn't pay the councils, but the other brothers should pay it. The only problem is that the other siblings went along when the car was bought and signed that they pay if the brother doesn't pay. – Yes, and that’s what happens: If I accept a liability as a federal state and become liable, I must also serve it. Whether this is Lower Austria or another federal country: You have to stand to his promise. [[Abg. Schimanek: Hypo Tirol?- Oh, my God!]] If you want to clean yourself up and tell the dad to pay it, the dad will judge it, then it's right that the Minister of Finance says: No, we don't! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] Everyone must bear responsibility for himself, and Lower Austria must also assume responsibility for it. If they make a promise, they'll have to keep it, and they can't say the dad's going to do it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] One last word, because of course this was also the subject. I believe that the essential question that we should actually address here is the question of tax reform. It is, as I believe, quite essential that we really take this step here, to reduce taxes and taxes on work quite massively and to make a higher contribution to it from capital and assets. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00063_d8e5661	Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00063_d8e5683	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! It's good that this special meeting has come about. Good thing there's this explanation. It's good that almost the entire government union and team is here. Of course, this has not taken place by itself, but it has, after all, required the initiative of two opposition parties to enforce this special meeting. It is important, therefore, because no matter what path to maximum tax pay protection, tax payer protection is now being taken – and we have a hope signal in the person of the new Minister of Finance for the first time – it will only succeed if the Federal Government, in particular the Federal Chancellor and the Vice Chancellor, fully supports this line. This is also a reason for this special meeting and for the declaration we demand from the head of government. We have not explicitly wanted to bring in any urgent items, but have done so precisely. And why is this so important that the head of government is almost on the move? – The path you are now taking has several roadways, it is at least the right direction. We have expressly praised this. We do not at all want to do that, quite the opposite. Of course, we would be stupid if we suddenly criticized something that happened in the direction in which it goes. As far as the past is concerned, we will still have to talk about whether there would have been similar or equal opportunities before. We will not be able to do so completely, but now again to the present and the future, so common line. Speaking of past: Why this is not so self-evident, we can see that in the months – that is now about a year ago – in which finally broke up, which has been hidden for years – we have experienced a quite large body-skin, hypo over the elections, body-skin as expensive as the funeral, but that has another minister to answer – a pretty tohuwabohu, also at the head of government, especially at the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, I am sorry to say. Some have simply and grippingly shuddered behind those, as consultants, task force who have been in charge for many years and, let us say, salopp, were not entirely innocent of development. In any case, if we take up the term “system failure” used by Mrs. Dr. Griss – I prefer the term “multi-organ failure” – then these consultants from the note bank, from the FMA, have partly contributed to it from the ministry itself. It has long been apparent that they can no longer argue and look at things, because they themselves were already too much involved. Nevertheless, one has relied on their advice, which has gone in the direction of a purely institutional solution. Let's remember! Before Minister Brandstetter thank God, I must say that he has been involved in these negotiations, there was that proposal at the time. This would have meant that we did not have a capital company that could somehow have been controlled in this direction, in which it is now going, which would somehow be insolvent. The most primitive solution, and it has been seriously proposed, would have been to say from the outset that every euro still on the agenda will be paid by the taxpayer. These were the advice you originally received. It is ultimately the opposition, its pressure and also the former vice-channer Spindelegger, that it has not been quite such that then the restructuring laws to the hypo have opened up certain refined possibilities from which we benefit today. So you see, it makes sense. It must always be hoped that not always the most unskilled solution to the taxpayers is chosen, but there has been a step-by-step development. I jump back to the present: Now we have – aproposing steps – exactly the possibilities in the right direction. But now it's important that everyone stay there. When Spindelegger then proposed to think of insolvency, it would certainly not have been as absolute as many have done. By the way, this is still a possibility at the end of the stage. It's not like that. But the transactions at the time were: The Deputy Chancellor and Minister of Finance also commissioned experts who represented something different from the Task Force who argued in this direction. And at the end of the day the way has been cut off to him, among others by bank representatives, we will probably have to think of industrial representatives who, I believe, have not thought the matter enough, ultimately also from the leaders of social democracy, because they have not yet fully come along with the new development, as they have long since taken place in Europe. Now it's supposed to be different. Thank God! Because of these empirical experiences, we wanted to know the entire head of government here. That is the case now, and now we also have the opportunity to debate this, namely, we as legislators, who have created many of these laws, at least as a majority, and now also as a critical, controlling companion, so that we do not return – and the danger is eminent and obvious – from the way, because we have actually found wavers at the head of government again and again. Now on the question of the possibilities. From my point of view, there are several good things in relation to the fact that we would have just let the taxpayer bleed. Either it comes to the prescribed debt cut. I'm not surprised that this is €8 billion instead of €4 billion. I've always been surprised that exactly those consultants took over the bank figures. I remember: When the head of government hid and was still sitting in the basement, Mr. Governor Novotny went on television, with more or less prefabricated questions, he designed a whole “press hour” and explained a year ago, the banking management said € 0 to €4 billion. It was clear that this would never happen. I don't wonder. But in the light of the fact that almost €6 billion of federal tax money has already gone down, you have to look at what we are doing with these possibilities. Now there is the possibility of ordering this debt cut. Theoretically, the creditors have the opportunity to negotiate behind the scenes in the face of this damocles sword, one can do it quite differently, and at the same time to beat out the Carinthian liabilities with such negotiation results. And then there is no more payment stop, but one has agreed with all creditors. I imagine that very difficult. But that's all right, too. Finally, there is still an insolvency, admittedly not quite trivial question of the Carinthian country's liability. Only once you have to say – it's pretty slow on the table –: How much to get there? If I am a reasonable creditor, I would like to start negotiations for a long time instead of cutting 500 million out of the future fund. Much more is not here. With a total arrest of € 10.2 billion, you can calculate your quota. If there was a successful offer from the federal government to exchange bonds, we'll cut the Carinthians out. But it is important that the private creditors, the so-called investors, usually make a big contribution to German banks. I am not talking about Bavaria and about Carinthia, which are all the public funds that we are always sending in the circle, but I am talking about the fact that one should at last demand a contribution from these investors, in the sense of the new European regulations. Yeah, and there are possibilities. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And if this is now constantly presented as an alternative, then that's exactly the danger. Suddenly, what was inconceivable a few weeks ago and vice versa. Mr Mitterlehner said twice: Alternatively! And we do not allow this to happen because of the new legal situation alone. Firstly, we could have brought this legal situation before us without the Union. In 2009, there was a request here, three days after this so-called nationalization, as we believe, without need, for an insolvency right for countries. What happened? – They had this paralysed in the committees. That would be an important prerequisite. The Vice-President also now says that we need something like this or something like that, perhaps also a correction of the system of execution, at least something that gives security for possible procedures. And the second is, I think it's even more important: 2012, first semester, decided in here, by Greens is negotiating around the ESM because we already knew at that time that what it needs? – An insolvency right for banks. We could've always been able to. Other countries have not waited for the Union, that was always our duty to you that you wait there for years instead of having such a construction to have the same legal situation as now, and then we could have done it all the time. We would have saved several billions if we had gone this path earlier. [[I should like to congratulate the Greens, as well as the representatives of FPÖ and NEOS.]] I would be interested in what has been paid back to bonds since the beginning of 2012 on the basis of a lack of legislation, as you claim, but you did not want to clean up partout, although the applications were there! There has even been a majority decision because we have been so far in the ESM negotiations. Critics will object, yes, but what is that worth? – A signature of the government nothing, not even a National Council decision. Unfortunately, it is, indeed, but we have saved many billions. That is why it is so important that we do not fall down, not to the federal states, because what I hear from St. Pölten is indeed breathtaking, but now from the uncles and the assistants there. 1 billion € or 1.2 billion €, which must be possible that we can still buffer it out, even though this is public money, admitted, as measured by the fact that we can save most of the money at 8 billion. Whoever doesn't make this bill is at St. Pölten's Children's Fasching; just as you act there. Alternatively, you can choose to sit in the Hooligan sector of the ÖVP. Make up your mind, I'm just saying that Django...
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00063_d8e5743	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to come to the conclusion. [[In the case of the Greens, as well as in the members of the FPÖ for the document leaving the speaker's seat. Kogler.]] The next item is Mrs Tamandl's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00063_d8e5776	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr Finanzminister! Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kogler, I actually wanted to praise you. I wanted to praise you for your constructive words, for the praise to the Minister of Finance and for his actions. We are eating together in a constellation last week... – If you let me speak, then I can continue the praise, but of course I do not want to save on criticism. [[Abg. Steinhauser: Don't hold back!]] [[Further calls to the Greens.]] We, financial and budgetary spokespersons, met with the Minister of Finance last week. And the Minister of Finance has talked very, very openly about this entire history of the Heta and about the resolution. I cannot recall any polemic statements, on the contrary, this decision taken by the Minister of Finance has been very, very positive. You too have publicly pledged support again and again. But this with the Hooligan sector again, Mr Kogler, is unheard of! Others get an order call, but you go out empty in such a story. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kogler.]] I would also like to comment on the statements made by my two other speakers. Mr Strache, this is always so easy for you: Head of State Haider has the responsibility, head of state Haider is dead, responsibility of FPÖ has died. – We will not succeed, and we will also clarify this in the Committee of Inquiry. Look, in 2009 – yes, but the FPÖ did not only consist of the head of state Haider – the Carinthian Landtag did not express a decision for nationalization [[Abg. Street: 2009!]] And now I'll come back to it again: At the time, Mr Darmann of FPÖ Klubobmann was representative of the Kärntner Landtag, i.e. he was very probably responsible for this decision on the land day. At that time, Landeshuptmann Dörfler very probably agreed to this nationalization. And if Mr. Dörfler had only one spark, he would be outside the Federal Council today, because then he would also take responsibility for what was before, because he was also in the government under the head of state Haider. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: Chief of State Dörfler, who agreed to the liability to which the ÖVP agreed in the Landtag and the Emperor of the SPÖ!]] If the decision had not been taken in April 2004, which was actually the root of all evils, with these unlimited liabilitys, where all parties and delegates represented in the Landtag had to know what was actually on them, then there could never have been a Hypo Alpe-Adria International, because this division could not have been implemented. - That's one. [[Abg. Strache: Why did the ÖVP agree?]] Second: Unfortunately, it is always said that the ÖVP would have been there everywhere. At that time, in April 2004, the FPÖ with the SPÖ was in a coalition and not with the ÖVP. [[Abg. Strache: But they agreed!]] You have to say that again and again, just to simply put different things that have been said in the past into the right light. On the comments of Mr Krainer, who asked: How is it that, when the Carinthians sold the bank to Bavaria, the liabilities were retained? – Yes, that, I must say, is also a simple story, and the Committee of Inquiry will continue to do so, because of course some here are very intensively concerned with the subject of the investigation – I have also done so. If you look through the April 2004 decision, you can see that these liability goes to all future legal followers. In other words, the Carinthians could not have passed the liability on to the Bayern, but they remained in Carinthia. And that's even the bigger scapegoat. As the tax reform has also been addressed: The Minister of Finance is now in office for six months. In these six months he had a very large backpack of responsibility to carry, he had to wear the hypo. He made a decision and said: The taxpayer is no longer charged, we're going to finish the heta now! He immediately made an assessment, where, for example, now calls are being asked why there is so much devalued. If you are dealing with the matter, you know that if you suddenly lose track of the so-called Going Group principle or the continuation principle, but are balanced in such a way that you break down a company that you process a company, then you just need a higher value correction. These are things that the people may not necessarily understand in this way, but we should leave the church in the village here and know very well that the Minister of Finance is really seeking a proper solution and now also a proper solution. And I also mean that you shouldn't always talk about the past as negatively. Mr Kogler has referred to it, and I should now like to return to praise. He said that Spindelegger laid a foundation stone with the solution in the previous year, because if we had not decided on this bank settlement last year, then now this heta settlement and this solution would not be possible. That is why I say that we should see, apart from the fact that we are very happy to beat political change in some matters, that this is really about tax money. The Minister of Finance has also said that he will nevertheless make a tax reform, even if he has the backpack of this Hypo Alpe-Adria, where the fall of sin is clearly the responsibility of FPÖ in Carinthia. And that's what he did. If one says here today that the government should confess whether it is strengthening its backs on the Minister of Finance, the Federal Chancellor should confess whether he is carrying all of this, then I must insist on it: Since the principle of unanimity exists in the government in Austria, I believe that one can assume that the government is behind this decision by the Minister of Finance. In this sense, I believe, a good decision has been made in the last few days. All the other things that have been discussed here today are going to be clarified in the Committee of Inquiry. We will look at the country decisions, we will see that it is very likely that the liability in Carinthia would have been beating if the hypo had been sent into bankruptcy. We will also consider how it was with the Bavaria, whether the Bayern actually sent the hypo into bankruptcy or not. I am only excited when we finally get to grips with this committee of inquiry, because one thing is clear, ladies and gentlemen: I place that for about a month, we can't even agree that the opposition will provide us with a list of persons providing information so that we can see which information people will be loaded, for example, to the first chapter, the Carinthian phase. I would be right if we would finally get into the clarification of political responsibility, because then at this first stage we would be dealing with the Carinthian responsibility or the FPÖ responsibility in Carinthia – and of course other parties too, because the decision in April 2004 has also been taken with the votes of the Greens and SPÖs, with the votes of all parties. So we should finally start. I wonder, What is the reason why we cannot agree when we finally start these surveys? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What is the reason on the part of the opposition for holding back what information is to be loaded for this first phase? I can only say to my group that we are in the pitfalls. We're working intensively on the subject. We know a lot, and we finally want to start. I hope that something will finally happen, because otherwise one might think that the opposition would now block the investigation committee itself.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00063_d8e5932	The next item is Mrs. Club-Chairman Ing. Dietrich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00063_d8e5954	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I can assure you: On the side of the Stronach team, we will do everything we can to bring Enlightenment and Light into this dark. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Recently, a newspaper has been entitled: “The inactivity of the past is avenged.” The hypo dies in front of a large audience. – Appreciated Ladies and gentlemen, it is really a drama, a drama for the Austrian taxpayer, what is happening there. What the Titanic's downfall for international shipping was, that's the mortgage for banking in Austria. And this is a disaster that is homemade – created by a network of politicians and a network of close-to-political banks. Ladies and gentlemen! In the area of hypo, we already have some files of this drama behind us. We still have scenes and performances in front of us and all of us will be happy when the curtain finally falls, when this sad topic, which is so burdened by the Austrian taxpayer with €20 billion, can finally be completed. I can tell you when the file is over, the enthusiasm of the audience will be limited because the damage from the players of red, black and blue, who have contributed there, will be so high for everyone that there can really be no more cause for joy. In autumn, the ITA was founded, and four months later, the first case of bank settlement is really carried out in accordance with the European resolution directive. Ladies and gentlemen! We know, creditors and lawyers already know their knives, that is a new matter of law, and there will naturally be a flood of complaints in this area. But we also need to be aware, Austria is playing on the international stage. The whole of Europe will look: What is Austria doing? How will we handle this bank? – And what we don’t need is a layperson group, a mediocre layperson group that in the past has dealt with the subject of hypo. We need a professional settlement. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] In the last few days, the Austrian Federal Government has been celebrating for a so-called tax bill, which in reality is only a redistribution, a price reform. I think every taxpayer, who is and thinks of a clear mind, knows that these €5 billion are just a distraction from the hypo scene, who is burdening everyone, not only the middle income earners who pay, but this mortgage will also ask our children and grandchildren to check out. In Austria we have a systemic problem. The banking power lies in a few hands, the switching levers in a few hands of politicians – and these areas exchange each other: once you are on the political side, the next time you have something to talk about in the bank. That means we have a close network of interdependencies and dependencies. That is why we should not be surprised if we have to read in the international press that Austria is a banana republic, the economic location sandle off, the financial centre loses sight day after day. I now bring you some plausible examples with which you can make this really tangible: Ewald Novotny. For years Novotny was SPÖ politician, then banker in BAWAG, then in the supervisory authority of the National Bank, finally governor of the Austrian National Bank – a typical Austrian career. There's no need to wonder if there's an opinion of convenience in which one is so creative that one creates words like "not distressed", which is not available in the international area, and thus becomes a fellow culprit in the area of the hypo, namely, as one has drawn a false picture of the actual situation of the hypo. Or: Klaus Liebscher, former Raiffeisen banker, Executive Board of the RZB, from 2007 in the National Bank, then the Board of Management of FIMBAG, then the Supervisory Board of Hypo again. - That's how it goes back and forth. The network is becoming more and more, so some people switch back and forth. We do not need to be surprised that we have such a felt in Austria. And this felt, ladies and gentlemen, has finally been torn up. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Then someone who is a real social democracy with heart, the FIMBAG Board of Directors Adolf Wala. Adolf Wala has noticed less by his performance, but by what this person has done. At the end of his career, he registers €32,000 in pension in the National Bank. 32 000 € Pension! When it came to a slight reduction, he tried to take legal action, Mr S & D, Mr. Comrade Adolf Wala. I tell you, Austria is really a banana republic, Austria is a republic...
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00063_d8e6013	Madam honourable Member, I would like to say You really ask – we have agreed that you know the Rules of Procedure – not to violate the dignity of the House, so to speak in such a way that it does not happen. You are speaking, Mrs Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00063_d8e6040	Madam President. I withdraw the term “Banana Republic”, but I quote media that already call us “small Greece”. I think that's even worse. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] What's it all about? – It is only about one thing: about power, power, power to maintain power. Any price is right to be paid if one can obtain the power in the Republic. We from the Stronach team, we clearly call for a depoliticization of banking supervision. We demand political liability. It can't be that those who have caused this mistake are still running around today with high-dozen jobs. When I look around here in the hall – Mrs Fekter is not here right now: It is one of those who really have been sitting on the button levers, and it is silent, silent and silent. Mr Lugar will bring so much light to this causa, I tell you, it will still blind you. [[Ironic Rejoicing]] [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Federal Minister Mitterlehner: There he would have to be a lamp!]] Mr. Federal Chancellor, you brought the comparison with the fire brigade. I'm telling you, you bought a burning house, you didn't see that this house is already in flames. What bothers me is that the Austrian taxpayer must pay not only for the mistakes that have happened in Austria, but also for mismanagement under German leadership. In the phase when the hypo was in Bavarian hands, credit was extended to devils coming out, which the Austrian taxpayer now has to pay. We have to pay for the damage. This is one thing that we want to clarify first, and something that we deeply guard against. We Austrians themselves have enough tasks, we do not have to do the homework of the Germans. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Just a short while to Lower Austria: We also want to know which commissions have flown in the area. In Lower Austria is not only the financial debacle around the country's liabilities, it is known from the housing funds that there are supposed to be €500 million in commissions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer]] [[Abg. Rädler: (keeping a newspaper article in height) There is something else!]] We would be very interested in what has been in the area of commissions at Hypo – Bruckberger no longer belongs to us, for some time since 2013. [[Ironic hustle and bustle.]] I assume that you, Mr Minister, are aware of this and should actually know it. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Hypo is the largest crime in the Second Republic. We'll do everything we can to clarify that. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] In this sense, I would like to make another motion for a resolution on political liability: The government is being invited.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00063_d8e6153	Your speaking time is exhausted. The motion for a resolution can be tabled by someone from your group. [[As a surprise to the Stronach team for the Abg, leaving the speaker's desk. Dietrich.]] [[Abg. Heinzl: That's what the Lugar is supposed to do!]] Mr Klubobmann's next speech is Dr. Strolz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00063_d8e6191	Madam President. Estimated government members! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Ladies and gentlemen at the gallery! Dear taxpayers at home on screens! Today, we are treating the hypo-degradation company here in Parliament as part of a special meeting. I would like to try to draw an overall picture in the next 10 minutes. I would particularly like to bring the two sisters of the HETA here to the House, because they are often not honoured in the family image. Mr Vorneweg, Minister for Finance: A word of praise for your step, which you have most recently put towards Bail-in, in the direction that you bring the creditors into the responsibility. We NEOS think that's right, but we think it's too late. It has already been burned at €5.5 billion in tax money, but we still think this late step – even if it comes too late – is correct. We also think it is right that you have clearly stated that the Federation is not responsible for covering all the country's liability. Mr Schelling, if you once stand with Philippi, then you can have certainty that we will be with you. You will not be alone, even if your own party may leave you. [[Call the ÖVP: A threat!]] [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] However, I do not agree, Mr Minister, if you communicate, there will no longer be any cost to taxpayers. I think this is wrong, I think it is misleading and I would also like to explain why this is misleading and wrong. That's where we have to dive into the history of the hypo. In 2014, three companies were set up, i.e. FIMBAG, ABBAG and HBI-Bundesholding AG. Everyone is the property of the Republic, everyone burns our money when it goes on. Much has already been said about the ITA process. The step you've taken is right, but of course he's on unsafe terrain, we all know. A flood of complaints will come, that was to be expected. As a Republic, I think you can look at it with determination and say that we face these complaints and see that we make the most of it, but of course we are also doing it for the first time in Europe. We are in a special situation because this institution of the HETA is not a classical bank. We all know that. So there are many areas of attack. I think that'll cost us money. That is why – I will come back later – it is very important and essential, Federal Minister, that we make good use of this year. We now have a year to implement an insolvency right for the federal states. We now also have a year to enter into compensatory negotiations and to reach results. But in this hypo fire there is not only one daughter, in this hypo fire the taxpayers not only burn in the context of the HETA, but there are two more sisters of the HETA. We need to look closely at those. To the hypo-SEE network. The sale process of this hypo-SEE network with the six daughters in South-East Europe has not yet been completed. You just have to say that in this clarity. Although we sold it by €50 million from this Advent bidder group, “sold” under quotation marks, because of course these 50 million also go at the expense of taxpayers. This is a prize of recognition, but we have given this daughter a gift of 1.7 billion federal liability. One thing is clear: So far, we have experienced some surprise every year, this year a huge surprise at the HETA, namely, 8.7 billion in value adjustments in the course of the balance sheet creation. This is more than the one-year budget of the Minister of Education. That is, we spend 1.1 million students for a year less than we did this year. That's not right. That is why the NEOS made a statement of a matter at the corruption prosecutor's office last week, because we do not consider all of this to be understandable in the context. We believe that the facts of the error of the balance sheet are here and should be examined accordingly. If similar depreciations occur in the hypo-SEE network – and according to the experience of recent years – then of course this will have to burn again the taxpayers, we are talking about €1.7 billion. Then the next daughter, Hypo Bank Italy, HBI. To remember: Heta has recently transferred € 1 million to the Banca d’Italia for fines, for six Austrians. The Italian National Bank has examined the errors that have occurred; among other things, the former Chief Executive Board, HETA Financial Manager, has been charged with a penalty of €330 000, the former Chief of Hypo and today's Board of Directors in the sold South-East Europe bank holding €142,000. The Italian daughters were accused of having charged the customer too long too high interest rates, they also had to pay compensation, namely € 88 million. And in the course of this examination, the Banca d’Italia has previously found massive shortcomings in lending. This is, of course, a knit pattern we know. This knitting pattern has cost us billions in many other places. Why should not this knitting pattern become a subject for us once again in Italy? – That means that even this daughter and this sister of the HETA will probably be even more expensive to us. That is why it is not responsible to join the people and say that there will no longer be any tax money. It's going to flow a lot. And if today – they are not yet in the hall – students who are 3b of the public school Stubenbastei are in the house and take a tour, then one thing is clear: that they are looking at Parliament today and that they will also pay tomorrow and the day after tomorrow when they will pay taxes. Their money will flow in – all our money will flow in. That's why we won't let go. These are all things that we have always predicted since we were in Parliament for a year and a half. And it always happened what we predicted, mostly even worse. And that is why we will not let go of it and will also stick to the issues we propose for the solution so that such things – I quote Vorarlberg's head of state – can no longer happen unpunishedly. We demand the tax autonomy for the federal states. They have to feel that. It can't be that the state princes just believe the money comes from the federal machine, you just have to press. And they can press very well. Some can hardly do anything else, I have the feeling. [[Abg. Wheeler: Hello!]] I can't do that! We must bring these rulerships into responsibility. It's about tax autonomy. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Of course, we also need an insolvency right for federal states. We have made seven requests in this respect last year. We have also submitted applications for the introduction of the Hypo-Research Committee for more than 20 times. Finally, he came. We will also repeatedly bring in this proposal for a German insolvency law – once, twice, seven times, today already the eighth time. We won't let go. We now have a window of a year to clear this up. If we don't clear this up, we'll be sad to discuss it. Jan Krainer will give a lecture on why you can't do this in Carinthia. We will simply not have done our homework and the damage will get bigger again. That is why my fellow Members will be putting forward a motion for a resolution here today. Minister Schelling, you have taken a step. For this you get our recognition and appreciation. But they're not determined enough on the way. And today you will be given more measures that you will have to implement from our point of view. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00063_d8e6257	Mr Schelling, Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, spoke next. Mr Federal Minister, I'll set you 15 minutes of speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00063_d8e6278	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Members of the Federal Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to express my thanks to the members of the Federal Government, the Federal Chancellor and the Deputy Chancellor. Because when I approached the Federal Government with the proposal for this decision, which must be made by law by the Minister of Finance, we examined the proposals in an internal discussion with experts, and from the first hour of support from the Federal Government for this my decision, which I am responsible for. I think you have to make it clear that one thing was very important in this process. I heard the question of who I would have been talking to in some intervening call. I can tell you, with no one. That's exactly the accusation that comes to me now: Why did I not inform the federal states? – Yes, because they are the owners of the hypo, the national hypos, and I am still in a process in which there are fundamental questions of creditor information, inside information, which concerns the immediate response of the capital market, not simply informing owners and not informing others about it. That is why, I think, this path we have taken was a real one. And he was, and I see that, in this form, as we handle it, just possible by the law-making of BaSAG here in the high house. I have been in office for six and a half months, and I also note that I did not share what has been called scandalous today, namely the situation of Hypo Alpe-Adria. But I take the responsibility of schooling this heavy backpack and bringing it to a good end. And I think we decided quickly and we decided correctly. [[In the case of the ÖVP, representatives of SPÖ and NEOS and the Agg. Pirklhuber.]] I would therefore also like to make one very clear: If the Board of Directors of the Heta would come to one of you and say that the new assessment report, already quoted by the Federal Chancellor today, means that the Republic of Austria has to provide between 4.6 and 7.6 billion – the rest is the balance of equity in the HETA – for an eternal time and full, then everyone – I assume – would have acted in the responsibility for this Republic in such a way that he would have said that we cannot do that. And we have made this very decision. [[Abg. Kogler: What did the others do with the 5.5 billion before?]] [[Call the ÖVP:Kogler!]] Mr Kogler, you will try to clarify this in the Committee of Inquiry. But this decision, which we have now made, has been analysed, well prepared and has been made – in a very short time. And believe me, I would have thought that was easier, but I believe that there is now a way that has been discussed several times, as we can do – and I ask the honourable Member Strolz to listen very carefully to what I have said, namely: not to give a tax money to the HETA. This is the crucial point, because what you've been talking about with sisters and daughters and what you're talking about. For example, you said about the SEA network, that's in the ITA, that's not a trigger. I should like to make one more comment here, so that there are no wrong conditions here: If we had made the decision to trigger a bankruptcy, we would have triggered such a one, then the buyer who signed to take over the SEA daughters would have been entitled to leave the so-called signing and not to close it. That was with a decision-making basis why we made this choice in this way. [[Abg. Stroll: But that's not in the HETA! It's a society of its own!]] [[Call at the ÖVP – towards the Abg. Stroll –:Psst! This is not a dialogue here.]] A second point, which is important because it was mentioned that we are of course also taking a risk with this decision: Yes, quite honestly, where is there no risk? That's why I kept saying: Fear of death has also died. There's a residual risk, yes, of course, there's that. That would have happened in the bankruptcy, and it would have been there if we had continued to finance it. We had to weigh this risk, and we have opted for this solution. But, ladies and gentlemen, this law, which we have here, gives us significantly more security – through the European legal framework – than if we did only make it locally and nationally. I should like to point out that at the last ECOFIN meeting, the Commission invited all countries to implement immediately the directive on which the BaSAG is based in their countries. It is amazing that the risk, which is still present in some countries, only three or four countries have been implemented at national level. Austria was referred to as a model. Second point: The European Commission has said that we have acted properly at the level of the European legal framework. And the third one was a little surprising for me, namely – for those who saw the mission “In the Center” – that a CSU member, known from the Bavarian Landtag, says that if the asset review is correct, then this solution we have now chosen is alternatively without any alternative and this moratorium is the right way to come to solutions. And I say already that we have heard and heard quite different sounds from our neighbouring country of Bavaria. Mrs Dietrich! I deeply regret that you are making yourself here and, by expressing a suspicion of generality, not only this Federal Government, but also all Austrians refer to the term "Banana Republic". This is not worthy of this House, and it also creates a starting point, which is heard in the messages outside. And what, do you think, will be next? – The financial market, which you want to protect so much with your considerations, will say: Well, finally, if Parliament already says so, that will be the case. – I think that is unbearable, and I also expressly asked you to make your choice of words in such a way that no further damage arises. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Mr. Schelling, how was that with the “scanned off ”? How was that?]] Again: You can criticize everything, that's not a question at all, just: [[Abg. Kickl: This comes from your series, the economic location Austria is “sanded”! That is what the President of the Chamber of Commerce has said!]] Here we are in the high house. And you can see it that way – I don't think it's useful. And I must be allowed to make such an assessment. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The Republic is fully committed. And because 4,5 billion or 5.5 billion were spoken of earlier – 4,5 are really already inside the Hypo Alpe-Adria and 1 billion we still have in liability, which may become a hit in the sense of a failure and a follow-up liability –: We as the Republic – and the Federal Government has clearly stated this – stand for this liability, and if it gets beating, it will be redeemed on Heller and Pfennig. A point that may still be important to you, which will be overlooked: This moratorium has not eliminated any liability entered into by Carinthia. They all exist. The question has been asked by Mr Kogler as to how inconsistency this is. In connection with these liabilities, I would like to point out one point: It was decided in 2004 that countries should no longer assume liability for their banks. And so that this does not immediately affect the capital market, one has made a transitional period until 2007. Do you know what happened at this time? – 9 billions of liabilities have been taken over or transferred in Carinthia. 9 billion! In a transitional phase in which the abrasion should actually have begun, it has been expanded. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Where's the FMA? Where's the critique?]] Mr President, you will have sufficient opportunity in the Committee of Inquiry to ask this question. I would just like to point out – because this accusation has also come, and if not all know – that: The FMA is in the constitutional rank and an independent and non-binding authority. – Only because it was spoken of here that it was being politicized here. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Muttons.]] That is why I would like to say once again that it is good that we have made this decision within the framework of the BaSAG and that all further decisions are now being made by the resolution agency, FMA, which you have agreed to under the law. That is so anchored in law and it is also good that way. The question that has been raised in total is the question of bankruptcy for Carinthia, which is the question: What would that have triggered? – I can only say: What is one of the advantages of BaSAG? One of the advantages of BaSAG is that over-indebtedness is not an insolvency stock. And the board of directors told me de facto that there is over-indebtedness – and then there is an indebtedness and over-indebtedness. And if it gets beating, at the first opportunity, when the capital of the HETA is exhausted, any default liability will be beaten. [[Abg. Wöginger: That's clear anyway!]] And this inadequacy – I can tell you – would have come much, much faster than you all believe. And, Mr Strolz and others who are addressing, we need something like an insolvency law: Yeah, that might be right. [[Abg. Strolz: We have been applying for exactly that for a year!]] I would just ask that we analyze and discuss this more precisely, because one point should still be taken into account for medium-term planning: In 2017, all country liability expires. And I think that is also the point where you should then discuss. I think it is inappropriate to do something on this issue, which will further insure the capital market. And I am also surprised that those who say make such a law, which then appeals to the Constitutional Court, because the law with the hypo has also been a law with which one wanted to act gently for the taxpayer by resolving certain questions. [[Abg. Stroll: It must be practical!]] A procedure will now run, and in the opinion of the Constitutional Court, this procedure will be terminated around September. I would like to give a brief explanation of a position that appears again and again. Some have responded. First: Where does this assessment come from? . Anyone who is immigrated in tax law knows that if one sets a business on settlement, one has a hugely higher resolution needs and thus depreciation needs. That's the biggest broking of this evaluation. The second is the economic situation in the countries. And the third thing, of course, was: Some of the Swiss francs have also contributed to the whole thing. Therefore, this depreciation requirement is also shown in an enormous range. It is actually very unusual for such bandwidths to be presented. And if you look at this in detail, you'll see: What bandwidth you take depends on what risks you have taken in. And one thing you have to admit to me as Minister of Finance: I have demanded that the upper range is also very detailed, because I believe it is impossible for all of us here in the High House, but also for all Austrians in the Republic, that we have obviously been led astray again and again with false figures. That is why I called for this upper range to be known in order to have a decision-making basis. And now we can hopefully assume that this upper range is the worst possible case we have to fear. [[Abg. Steinbichler: Was that an accusation to the predecessors?]] [[Call at the ÖVP: No!]] [[Abg. Lopatka: Misunderstood again!]] [[Call the FPÖ: Sounds like this!]] One point I would like to address briefly – you mentioned it already –: It is clear and clear that the Federation has no liability for the federal states. And I think one must also make it clear that, in the meantime, too, and I would like to expressly thank you from this point of view, the countries have made it clear that they are responsible for this. And that's, I think, a signal. [[Abg. Kickl: Well, in Carinthia is being tested!]] [[Abg. Darmann: This is what Mr. Kaiser does!]] [[Abg. Kickl: But Mr. Kogler will explain this to us!]] [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Who heard the pomp yesterday!]] [[Abg. Stache: The Emperor is doing this right now!]] [[Abg. Kickl: This runs at the hour under the direction of SPÖ Carinthia!]] I mean, it's funny to give 20 billion liability first and then check if they were legitimate. I think this is a really interesting process. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I think this is a very interesting process, which you can once again explain to everyone who receives a kind of bank guarantee from you or the bank by saying: I'll make it, and at the end it's gone. Someone can do that. This is just as his legitimate right, as if others complain, so that it must be decided whether BaSAG is holding or not. Once again, that is quite legitimate. But to get back to the point: It has nothing to do with what was triggered. This also has nothing to do with the fact that, despite the decision to stop these national liabilitys, 9 billion have been taken over in the time when one has already taken over. [[Abg. Stroll: The ÖVP voted in favour at the time! You have to say that!]] [[Abg. Lopatka: Everyone voted in favour! – She didn’t exist at the time!]] Again: I didn't say at all now – if you listened carefully, then you know, I didn't say that – who agreed to it, but that the country of Carinthia did it. And in the country of Carinthia, there was a government – and as there is a federal government that is responsible for its responsibility, so all those in the government are to assume their responsibility. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude by saying one more thing, namely, why I also believe that these liabilities, which the hypos – and first of all the hypos and not the countries – have taken over from the Pfandbriefstelle, must also be redeemed: They must also be redeemed because, of course, these hypos have been successful in the last few years. Anyone who leads such a company must, of course, also assume the liability for a potential failure. They have also declared themselves ready to do so. And the countries are in duty in the second line. But if I assume that the hypos are able to settle what is in the Pfandbrief, then it is not a public money in the classical sense, but it is a business model in which they have read and earned money from the market accordingly. I therefore believe that this federal government was well advised to make this decision. I think it is the right way, and I ask everyone to take this path not only from the Federal Government's point of view, but also to support 100 percent in parliamentary work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00063_d8e6656	Next item is the report by Mr Kucher. I'll set you three minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00063_d8e6688	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated government colleagues! [[Call: ‘Government colleagues’?]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Today, in the run-up to the Hypo-Research Committee, we have already discussed very intensively that there will be two major issues and tasks that will accompany us in the future when the hypo-fire is being processed. On the one hand: How did it get to all this hypo-slam? Who set the fire to the hypo? The second question is: How will it continue? And also: How was deleted? Would you have done better? – This will also be examined by the Hypo-Research Committee. And a third question that we are discussing today is how it will continue in the future, because this fire is still blatant and not yet deleted and we are all required to solve together the question of the resolution of the HETA and the former hypo. At the legal level, there have already been more than 100 cases in connection with the hypo, both domestically and abroad. There have been convictions, some of them prison sentences. There are currently 12 investigation procedures in Austria in connection with the Causa Hypo. In the Hypo-Research Committee, we will clarify the political responsibility, we will see what we can do better in the future. I believe that this is by far the most important thing to discuss together what lessons we can draw from this Causa Hypo. When processing the Causa Hypo, it is the most important task to save tax money and find a solution that costs as little tax money as possible. We have already heard it today, the Minister of Finance has taken the first step with the Heta payment stop, and the supervision of the financial market will deal with the HETA. What has succeeded positively in this solution is, of course, that we have gained time for the negotiations. But the Minister of Finance has just confirmed that the huge damocles sword of the state's liability is still hovering over Carinthia. We will have to find a solution together. And maybe you can imagine – I can say that as a Carinthian, Gabriel Obernosterer will speak next and probably confirm that – it is quite a burden for the people in Carinthia to not know how it continues when scenarios such as insolvency, pleite, payment stop in the room. That is why I am very surprised when Mr. Strache says here so loose-floppy that the insolvency of Carinthia would not be so bad – you have said that – because it is not immediately to this insolvency, because at first all assets would have to be used. Mr Strache, I should like to ask you: What are the assets of a federal country? [[Abg. The bank! You didn't understand anything again?- Oh, my God!]] You can't discuss the liability! Therefore: What are the assets of a federal country from your point of view? [[Call the FPÖ:Listen!]] There have already been initial discussions about this in the media. Are we talking about hospitals? [[Abg. Strache: Did you not listen? That's the hypo!]] Are we talking about social benefits? Housing aid? What are the assets of a federal country from your point of view, Mr. Strache? [[Abg. Strache: Sense-determining understanding is a problem for you!]] That the liability exists – there you can talk as much as you want, you can't discuss everything away. [[Abg. Strache: You still need to learn meaningful understanding!]] In contrast to you, Mr Strache, however, at the Carinthian level, an attempt has been made to find a solution together. [[Abg. Kickl: Now the speech is breaking up!]] There is an shoulder joint across party borders. Carinthia will not be able to solve this huge mud cell alone. That is why the solidarity of the federal government is needed. We will have to work together. I can ask everyone here in the House to support Carinthia together.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00063_d8e6801	The next item is the speech by Mr Obernoster. I'll set 4 minutes of speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00063_d8e6823	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and at home in front of the TV screens! I believe that if you have listened carefully to the words of our Minister for Finance, then you really do not need a supplement. He said everything about the content, so I do not want to make any further comments on this. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Thank you, Mr Colleague! – Final sentence!]] But as a Carinthian, I would like to say something about this debacle. We know where this debacle came from. I wasn't there, but I admit it happened in Carinthia. And because there has been a political hack here today of the opposition – the main focus of the Freedom Party, but also of the Stronach team; Greens and NEOS were very cooperative – then I have to say now that this debacle has begun under the political responsibility of a national leader of freedom and free movement of finance. If that hadn't happened then, we wouldn't have to deal with this today. In my opinion, it is very important – and the Minister of Finance has already said that the Carinthians can't do anything for this debacle – that the damage to Carinthia is kept as low as possible. It must also be ensured that the damage to Austrian taxpayers is as low as possible. With the resolution company Heta this seems to be, I hope, now guaranteed. But I don't want to take the state of Carinthia out of duty. We should not try – and my previous speaker has done so briefly – to take away the blame of Carinthia, because that would not be fair, but rather we should try to keep the damage to the Carinthians as low as possible. I really have to say to our head of state of Carinthia, Mr. Kaiser: He has to look into the facts. I was very surprised that yesterday, from the head of the Kärntner state, a letter went out to all the employees in the Kärntner state government, in which it says that Carinthia would not be so negative without HTA and its associated media coverage. - I don't think that's okay. He also says: We demand and need the solidarity of the covenant! To this end, we must say: This one's given! Due to the establishment of the HETA, we can rightly hope that this damage will not be too great for us. One thing is clear: This discussion and these eternal political debt allocations do not do well for the financial market Austria. The Committee of Inquiry, which has been set up, can finally put an end to this. Let us see that we learn from the whole thing that such a thing can never happen again in the future! Also the country of Carinthia and the Carinthia does not do well this eternal political mud battle, as far as the hypo and this financial debacle are concerned. Where to find the guilty, we know. I do not want to start again with whether an 80 percent or 10 percent is guilty or who voted in favour of everything, we will work out all of this in the Committee of Inquiry. But I really ask you, in the interest of the Carinthians, to finally come to the point of fact, because this discussion not only harms us Carinthia, but also Austria's financial centre. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00063_d8e6865	The next item is the speech by Mr Podgorschek. I'll set 6 minutes of speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00063_d8e6889	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Appreciate listeners! Because of some of the words of my previous speakers, I am honestly afraid and afraid of this committee of inquiry because there have been so different subjective perceptions here that I almost cannot imagine that there is really something to bring out for the future. I do not mean now those speakers who spoke right in front of me, you, Mr. Obernosterer, have also given some positive things about you, but I have to say: It seems that the Griss report has addressed the least here, because this report clearly and clearly states that the whole of the debacle is due to a multi-organ failure of the state institutions. And that's what we're standing for. Today, the SPÖ's financial spokesperson has given the same leader of his own. However, I have to question his competence because it is proven that he complained in the Banking Investigation Committee that the Carinthian government sold the hypo to Bavaria far too cheap. So that shows his true economic competence once again. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Finanzminister! It is true that the liability is a fundamental evil, they are and have been distorting competition. Finally, they were abolished at the EU's pressure in 2004 and were no longer able to give thanks to God in 2007. But not only Carinthia, but all the federal states have state-hypos – except for Vienna, where, for example, the central savings bank was supported with liability – and the liabilities were partly in the suffering of competitors and completely distorted the market. The fact that some federal states have now discharged their liability through the sale of hypos is positive, but some federal states have not yet done so. But today, I have no understanding of howls and tooth gnawings in the federal states, because no one has held back these countries from exercising control within the framework of their bond of liability, showing at that time the wrong developments at the Hypo in Carinthia, and as a result of which they have left this union. If I hear today that there was a fall of sin in 2004 by the decision of the Carinthian Landtag, I can point out that last week in the “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten” (Oberösterreichische Nachrichten), my federal state – and for this I am the Upper Austrian – made the following decision in 1997: “The Land Oberösterreich is also liable for all future liabilities of the Aktiengesellschaft as a guarantee of default according to § 1356 BGBG” – namely the distributed mortgage – “after registration of the Aktiengesellschaft into the company’s book.” This decision is, in part, even more far-reaching than the decision of the Carinthian Landtag. Furthermore, the “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten – I quote – says: ‘A liability in this form would probably be illegal and invalid in the private sector.’ It's the same! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Finanzminister, if you say that it must never happen again, that such liability will be staggering, then I must say to you: I hope and expect you to say similar words even when you have liability At the level of the European Union, which we have entered as the Republic of Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In this context, of course, one must always take the following into account: At the time, the politicians of all couleurs were enraged by the unshakable belief in the financial markets and wanted to make the big money in the East and the South East. That was the driving spring! In all the discussions we hold, it is always forgotten, whether consciously or unconsciously, that, in particular, the Bavaria sent this bank to a self-destructive expansion course and recklessly inflated this balance sheet by 12 billion euros, on the basis of the potential payment capacity of some claims and borrowers. That is to say, the Bayern have had a significant share in the destruction of this bank. Then came the completely unexplained night and fog action in December 2004, and the fire brigade did not remove the fire, but poured oil into the fire. We simply need to take note of that once as it is. The threat of the Bavaria to send this bank into bankruptcy – that is black on white in the Griss report; Mrs. Griss has clearly explained this – is to be clarified. The Committee of Inquiry will clarify the reasons for nationalization without any need. With the decision to state emergency stateization, ladies and gentlemen, the Turbo was first lit, so this disaster really came about at the end of the day. Unfortunately, instead of defusing these banking bombs, those responsible have hesitated, they have spent huge sums of advice. One had the impression that one sent these consultants only to Carinthia to find evidence on bending and breaking that Jörg Haider and his friends were guilty. More was not behind these motives. Unfortunately, the focus in this manie was completely turned in the wrong direction, because Jörg Haider could not be used to flick the stuff anymore. It then occurred that these liabilities were a mistake. There were concrete purchases already in January 2010, but this one was never followed, obviously one wanted to keep this bank – I don't know the motive – on bending and breaking in the possession of the state. I fully support the fact that the establishment of the HETA has finally been done to bring this problem bank to a solution. Only one thing is in the foreground: the damage to the taxpayer and to the state of Austria is kept as low as possible. In my opinion, it is totally irrelevant whether this is going through the current ITA settlement or the moratorium – in this case out of court – or whether it is handled through a court, through insolvency proceedings. It's secondary. The primary objective is to ensure that the taxpayer is at least taxed at the end. The Committee of Inquiry can make an important contribution to clarifying this whole of Causa, and I hope that all members of this Committee of Inquiry are engrossed in the fact that we are really clarifying and not overburdening each other with accusations. We liberals are ready – without Tabus – to clarify these causas in the sense of the population in order to keep the damage to the Republic as low as possible.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00063_d8e7008	The next item is Mrs. Club Chairman Dr. Glavischig-Piesczek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00063_d8e7029	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the government bank, which has already been quite empty! [[turning to the government bank]] [[Abg. Darmann: Where is the Federal Chancellor?]] The Federal Chancellor has already left us. [[Abg. Neubauer: Respect for the High House is very low!]] Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I've got to say, This is a very special meeting, because I have never experienced it in the years since I was in the Austrian National Council that in such an important matter as this, the opposition has only led the government to express itself. [[Abg. Kogler: Right!]] It is already very strange that it is not the most natural thing in the world that you simply go to the National Council and report on these things in detail and openly and knowledgeably. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But, well, many things are not of course with us. The Austrian population, I believe, is one of the most important things as far as the figures, the billions, and the processes surrounding the hypo are concerned: She's still unscrupulous! It is not at all comprehensible for many people what has actually happened where the billions have come. And the promise that the government's responsible policy has always given, namely that it is highly responsible to deal with tax money in order to ensure education system, health system and social system, has certainly been broken up to 100 percent throughout this process. You have to say that before. Now we have heard from you, Mr Finanzminister, a statement on the subject, and I should like to thank you for this - a debate on confidential details - with the financial and budgetary speakers, which has been very well done, but I still say to you: As an ÖVP Finance Minister, we really have a lot to do with this republic. This will be admitted if one looks at the chain of the errors of the ÖVP's Finance Ministers over the last ten years. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I remember, for example, the installation of a de facto non-functional financial market supervision under grass, further to all the disputes we had with Molterer, where it was a matter of really letting the Banking Investigation Committee work and not getting any blackened files and perhaps then getting through to the hypo, or the whole thing with the emergency stateization or with the inconsistency of the finance minister Fekter, where you said today that you would also have expected to act with the true figures. I'll tell you what happened to us: We even had a budget lie here in the National Council – and I say it quite consciously – to do so. € 133 million were budgeted in the budget for the hypo. [[Abg. Fekter: That's a slander!]] – No, that’s the truth! That was before the National Council election. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[New call of the abg. Fekter.]] It's a fact! If we had already pulled the emergency brake at the time and had worked really substantially and seriously towards debt cuts – in the direction we are now going – the damage would have been billions lower. That's just a fact, and that's why this thing hurts so much. [[Abg. Fecter: Do not repeat this slander again and again!]] You're yelling in here all the time, Mrs. former Minister of Finance, but I'm going to repeat it: If one had made this step with consequence – creditor cuts, orderly insolvency, at the end of which is a creditor’s stake – already much earlier, indeed billions would have been preserved for the budget and for taxpayers in Austria. That's a fact! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Fekter: At that time there was no instrument!]] We welcome this step, Minister of Finance, which you are now going to: We're burnt kids as far as this is concerned! Last year there was a legendary dinner – I was not there, but it is told in such a number of rounds – in which the Federal President, the Federal Chancellor and the then Finance Minister Spindelegger took part and where exactly the question of an orderly insolvency, where a debt cut could end, was discussed, and there this step was so to speak buried. So we're burnt kids as far as this is concerned. As far as the moratorium is concerned, we support you with this 100 percent step. I would only have expected you to ask the National Council for a sign that there is then a resolution by the government parties. We would have liked to have a motion for a resolution together with you, in which the 100% enforcement of your course – which will certainly not be easy – is guaranteed. There would then also be the 100% back cover of Parliament. That's why I'm telling you again: We're children burned there! We have often experienced enough that when the situation becomes difficult, you get cold feet and leave or deviate from a well-informed path. And since we have requested the special session, we have also prepared a request which I am now making for reading. The National Council wants to decide: The Federal Chancellor is asked to make an unmistakable guarantee declaration in which he explicitly confesses to the private creditors of the ITA, that is, the former Hypo Alpe-Adria, in the sense of minimizing the future tax damage, and continues this path consistently until an actual debt cut. That is our offer to you to put this support mark now. We know that this will certainly not be easy. The first step has now been taken in the direction that the solution does not cost 100 percent of the population in Austria. It's still about an order of almost €10 billion, so it's still about crazy money. That's why I would really ask you, both gentlemen, who are chatting together now, but good – that's a very good idea! [[towards Federal Minister Schelling and Federal Chancellor Faymann]] [[Federal Minister Schelling: We are discussing how we can implement your proposal!]] I would really ask you not to get cold feet and leave this way again in the counterwind – and it will certainly come. It's just a moratorium, it's upliftable at any time. It's not safe yet, it's a moratorium on which everything is built up, the whole system, in the direction you want to go now. So: We ask for a declaration by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, here in this House, which is agreed by everyone that this path – and we support you 100% – will continue to be pursued consistently.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00063_d8e7201	Mrs. Club Chairman! I have a slightly different motion for a resolution from the one you have just read. That is why I would ask you to give me this in writing. We will see whether that is identical in content and therefore properly introduced or not. I would ask you to send us your written motion for a resolution. The next item is the speech by Mr Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00063_d8e7225	Madam President. High house! When it comes to the Causa Hypo, it's also about working out the links. To do this, we need to look at Lower Austria, which is to the hypo Lower Austria. The Hypo Niederösterreich has several 100 million € in bonds in its books – over many years. It has received 4 percent interest for what is very unusual today. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] If you look at these bonds, you can see that they were neither sold nor valued. Now, of course, we ask the question – and the question has also been asked by the hypo Lower Austria – why you have not been valued. It must be clear to everyone that there is a certain risk. The answer makes a deep look. The answer was: It is therefore not worth correcting, because it is the responsibility of Carinthia. Now it must also have been through to the Hypo Lower Austria that Carinthia cannot even hold for a fraction of it. If you talk about Carinthia in the Hypo Lower Austria, you don't mean Carinthia. They mean taxpayers, and they can already be held liable for that. But how can the owner, Erwin Pröll from Lower Austria, be so sure that the taxpayer is 100 percent liable, so that he can keep these bonds in the bank and not have to correct them? How can he be so sure? The answer is simple: In the past all the finance ministers of Erwin Pröll's graces were. All the finance ministers, from Josef Pröll to Mrs Fekter, who sits up there and does not move down to Mr Spindelegger. All of them were of Erwin Pröll's grace. And all have done exactly what Erwin Pröll wanted of them, namely to keep damage from the hypo Lower Austria and from all other land hypo. That is why the taxpayer was put in charge! Now comes a new finance minister who was an accident, Mr Schelling is an ÖVP accident that should not have been a finance minister at all. [[Call the ÖVP:Hello! Here, I found it. He lives in Wannlake. Here, I found it. He lives in Wannlake.]] [[Cheerfulness on the government bank and on the ÖVP.]] Those who do not believe it can ask the Minister of the Interior, who on the day of his appointment put himself up and said: We would have preferred to have an expert. Well, what did she mean by that? – An expert who does not, as the Minister has now, stand before the taxpayer and protects himself from damage, but rather an expert who does exactly what all the other experts, including you, Mrs. Fekter, have done before, namely damage from Erwin Pröll and from his Landesbank, from his inexhaustible money store, with which he does all that secures his re-election. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Frameset]] That's why it went! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] When Mr Sobotka threatens the Minister of Finance, puts the rod in the window and says: I will also survive them!, then it means nothing but that he has done something that was previously unthinkable. A Finance Minister of the ÖVP presents himself to taxpayers and not to the Erwin Pröll. This is the evil that has been committed, what Erwin Pröll wants to hear in this Republic! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] They're the first one not to do that. And that's good! That's good. And you're also the first to trust that. Because all the other finance ministers before you were dependent. All were dependent on the ÖVP and the grace of Erwin Pröll. That's why they had to do what Erwin Pröll wanted. Now we have a finance minister who doesn't. And Mr Pröll sends his Mr Sobotka to threaten the Minister of Finance. But he does it personally. You, Mr. Finanzminister, said: The FMA is independent according to the Constitution. - Yes, the chickens are laughing! There the chickens laugh, Mr. Finanzminister, and you know that too. Mr Pröll publicly threatened Mr. Pribil, the ex-FMA Executive Director and current Director of the National Bank at Casino Baden. He told him: If you continue like this, you will never get a job in this country again. He told him: Without ÖVP would have been You're nothing! - That's how it looks! - That's the Erwin Pröll! [[Call at the FPÖ: So is the pomp!]] That is to say, in this country, Erwin Pröll is actually ruling! If you now have the courage to oppose him and stand up for the taxpayers, which should be quite natural for a Minister of Finance, I will tell you: Yeah, that's good, and you can afford it. You're the first independent. And we support it. We support You are against Erwin Pröll and against all those who abuse the taxpayer in order to take advantage of it themselves! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00063_d8e7309	The next item is the speech by Mr Hable. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00063_d8e7330	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! Citizens in the gallery and in front of the screens! The hypo or the Heta, the resolution of the hypo successor company Heta, is today the topic, that is, actually the present and, above all, the future. We have now also heard a number of things about the past. This is more part of the Committee of Inquiry, but I would like to comment on one, two arguments that have been put forward and not simply leave them in the room, because they are simply fundamental. For the time being, Mr Krainer claimed that the nationalization without need was such that the Bavaria had gone home with 1 euro. So, in principle, the Republic was the winner of the negotiations. Yes, the problem is that everyone else sees it differently. And above all, the Griss Commission sees it as different, from whose report he cites. If you don't believe it, you can believe the woman Griss. It clearly noted that Bavaria had at least a risk of €6 billion in the bank and had taken home €800 million. [[Abg. Fekter: That's not true!]] – That means you have lost at least more than €12 billion. Now, Mr. Krainer is making himself and saying: It was not €5 billion that the Bavaria won, but it was only €1. That's wrong! [[New call of the abg. Fekter.]] It is just as wrong if Mr Krainer said that insolvency would not have been possible because Carinthians had to pay the next day. Even if one once assumed this argument to be true that one says that the country's liability would have been staggering the next day, then Carinthia would not have had to pay the next day. Then the creditors should have complained first. Then there should have been court proceedings first. Then there should have been a judgment first. And this judgment should have been executed first. We all know that Carinthia has no essential assets that can be executed at all. So, of course, that's just not true. But let's get aside from the past! Let's devote ourselves to the future! Mr Finanzminister, it has already been said that I repeat it: That was a courageous step to put this resolution on the table. The NEOS will be behind you on this question. Where I have doubts, so to speak, is Their confidence and also the confidence of the Federal Chancellor, who also said that through this resolution, through the settlement of the new EU bank settlement regime, the liabilities of the country of Carinthia would not be triggered. I dare to doubt that, because one thing is clear: It is purely formal that this bank settlement is not insolvency, but it is a material one, it is a content one. You can also learn this in the Jus-Studium at the university. One of the important lessons is: It is not a question of the name, but of the content. But you don't have to convince me, you have to convince the creditors, and these will certainly take this up and value it as an insolvency stock and go to Carinthia. I just want to tell you that there's a problem here. But it's a problem for which there's a solution. We NEOS have looked at the legal quality of the country's liability last year. In July 2014, we presented an opinion from the European legalist Professor Griller, behind which four other university professors stand. The result of this opinion is that national liability is illegal because it violates EU law. I should like to remind you briefly that this was already the case in 2002 when the EU Commission said: These liabilities are illegal. – Then these liabilities were declared valid for a transitional period, but – you mentioned it yourself – these liabilities were not dismantled, but were inflated into the infinite, from €10 billion to €24 billion during this transitional period. The Commission certainly has a lot of room to negotiate interim solutions here, but it has no discretion in this respect. That is why it is illegal, and therefore, of course, we must also have consequences in this respect. This has not been taken up by your predecessor – where no complainant, since no judge, has, therefore, not yet been brought to the Commission. We are jumping into NEOS, we have now prepared a complaint to the EU Commission, it has been on my desk since last night in the draft. I can hereby announce that we will soon present them to the EU Commission and therefore challenge these national liabilities. This is our constructive contribution, and I would hope and expect you to join me here, Minister of Finance, that They take up and support our initiative, as we do with the ITA process from our side. A final sentence – Mrs. Tamandl is unfortunately not here at the moment –: It is certainly not constructive if she claims that it would be the opposition that is responsible for the fact that we do not yet discuss information about those in the U Committee. I would also like to say to the public why this is so. Yes, we are not discussing the information people yet, but the reason is that we are still talking about speaking times. And we are still talking about how many U-committee days we will have. So far, there is only blockade from red and black. The last thing is that you are trying to reduce our speaking time, especially the smaller groups, against any previous use in U-committees. That is the truth, and that should be known to the public! Mrs Tamandl, I tell you and also Mr Krainer in absence: So much time to speak You can't take me away from the U-committee if we don't get the bodies out of the hypo cellar there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00063_d8e7378	Next, Mrs Mag. Greener speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00063_d8e7399	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen! Since November 2014, the ITA has been acting as a unit of degradation of the remaining assets of the Hypo Alpe-Adria after the splitting of the South-East Europe network and the Italy subsidiary. What would have been the alternatives to this degradation unit? – An alternative would have been to continue pumping tax money into the marode bank. Another alternative would have been to risk an invaluable insolvency in the consequences. What would have happened to insolvency? – The more than €23 billion of national liability would have immediately become staggering. Neither land nor covenant could have coped with this. How did such high liability occur at all? – Although some of them do not fit into the political concept now, the cause lies – I emphasize it again today – in a policy led by the then head of state, Haider, and Willy Handlanger. Prestige projects have been implemented – most cost-intensive: Sea stage, football stadium, airline – the questionable shops in south-eastern Europe have exploded; transactions that were carried out without regard, without control and without any sense of responsibility. A fact that the Court of Auditors has now repeatedly criticised. As early as 2009, SPÖ has called for a bank insolvency right to allow banks to exert pressure on public authorities. The SPÖ has made further progress in increasing the bank's levy. Why is it? That's so important? – Because this will keep the burden on taxpayers as low as possible. What's going on at the HETA? – There is an orderly, rapid, transparent resolution within a European legal framework. As part of this settlement, the creditors will also be used to reduce the burden. Let me say something about the question of the country's liability: Liability means responsibility! The method Lower Austria – I close my eyes and see nothing – will not work. And statements such as “At Philippi we see ourselves again! ” probably allow for the conclusion of a deficit in political culture. Ladies and gentlemen, let me conclude by commenting on the tax reform: Despite an economically difficult situation and despite the pressure from the hypo disaster, it has succeeded in achieving tangible reliefs for small and medium-sized incomes. This is quite a remarkable success, and I would like to congratulate you, Federal Chancellor, and also the Minister for Finance. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00063_d8e7448	The next item is Mrs Jank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00063_d8e7469	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr Finanzminister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate spectators in front of the screens! I also see the task of our parliamentarians in creating, in particular, framework conditions for people in this country, especially for young people in that country. And I take the liberty of congratulating Mr Finanzminister on the birth of his granddaughter. [[General condolences.]] Minister of Finance, we all have the great task of ensuring that the country goes well into the future. Thank you for the tax reform! We have taken a good step with the tax reform, even if there will have to be adjustments there or there, especially in the sense of the economy, at least in the small area, without leaving the path. It is necessary and right that we go through this. On today's topic: I have a brief look at the timeframe, because it is, I think, critically questioning: a bank, a head of state, a supervision. A bank that has made craft mistakes has made misassessments. A bank that has gone into markets that have long been occupied – which therefore had to aggressively enter these markets – and has in a short period bloated the balance sheet total by 800 percent to € 43 billion. The disaster, which has long been one for the bank, is that the country's country's liabilities have grown to €24 billion. A head of state who has been addressed for quick money – it has already been said today that the liability fee was obviously a great motivation for it – to look at all the measures he would have had to take, namely, the one weighing on the other and what I have actually done here, disregarded and put at risk the well-being of a whole country, which has put Austria's well-being at risk at the end of the day, for the benefit of a football stadium in Klagenfurt. How'd it go? – In the case of a bank that has acted incorrectly, you also have to ask yourself what the supervision has done. Now I see not only the supervision within the framework of the FMA – and I also wonder what the assessment “not distressed” of the OeNB was really worth – but also the supervision within the bank. Now we have regulations according to the Banking Act, which requires everyone to be fit and clean. That may not have been the case at the time, because the bank's internal revision will probably not have fully fulfilled its task, otherwise it could not have come that far. [[Abg. Darmann: State Commissioner, sent by FMA!]] Today we also know that it was particularly irresponsible to maintain the unlimited liability; this has already been mentioned. The following is known: Emergency nationalization, aid procedures, new laws, we have decided to intervene here and to be able to do something effectively. Now is the point where something is done, where a Minister of Finance has made clear decisions, which are implemented and persecuted. Mrs Glavischnig has called for this way to go and not leave. I can assure you that the Minister of Finance will go this way, and if there is any need, this will also be taken so that the resolution can be done properly. I very much hope that at the end of the day, the assessment of the need for value adjustment will not be true. But this will also depend on how the FMA reacts, how professional is being worked here, because a resolution process is a sale process at the end of the day, and sales processes have their own laws. In the sense of all of us and in the sense of the country of Austria, I wish a lot of success for this.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00063_d8e7512	Next, Mr Magistrate. Darmann in word. Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am setting the clock on the four minutes you have requested, but I would point out that your club's remaining speaking time in the framework of the agreement that has been reached would be 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00063_d8e7533	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I am motivated and interested today in this plenary day, and thanks to the ORF radio coverage, which has announced that the valuable Chancellor will speak clear text today. [[Abg. Kogler: He did!]] I was interested because he has not succeeded since 2008 since he took over the Federal Chancellery. I've been looking forward to listening to it today. The only one, ladies and gentlemen, who has really come out of the plain text today, was for all of us – I believe that anyone who has listened closely can also sign it in this form – that the Federal Chancellor continues to make a reality refusal and has nothing better to do than still point out a party-politically with his finger flat-rate to a federal country and find a guilty person for the entire miser of the Hypo Group Alpe-Adria! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is simply too little for a responsible, responsible and responsible German chancellor, Dr. Faymann, who is responsible to the population! [[the speaker considers briefly]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] I must tell you that you have completely removed from the memory that all parties in the Carinthian Landtag were involved in taking over the country's liabilities to the new structures of the Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank International and also the HBA in 2004. I don't know if Mr. Peter Kaiser tells you something, whether the current head of state of Carinthia, Dr. Peter Kaiser, tells you something, if the head of the SPÖ Carinthia Party, Dr. Peter Kaiser, says something to you, but he was the countryman of the SPÖ at the time and has agreed to this acceptance of liability – as well as the current First Landtag President and the Second Landtag President in Carinthia, who is presented by the SPÖ, ladies and gentlemen! [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] [[Oh-Rufe at the FPÖ]] That's why you stop showing with your finger always in the direction of a person who – and this is particularly interesting for us – now needs to keep up with the party-political debate that does not bring anything to anyone, not even the taxpayer, even for errors of this federal government, which seem to have occurred after their accident death. These are errors that cost taxpayers billions of euros and billions of euros, which are accordingly broken up and accountable after Jörg Haider's accident death. But Jörg Haider is supposed to be here for everything, the FPÖ is supposed to be here for everything! Everyone has forgotten that once in a while with this nationalization without need in 2009 – I emphasize this – only a federal government led by the SPÖ is responsible with ÖVP finance ministers, for this nationalization and also for the subsequent years that cost taxpayers billions of euros, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's not polemics, that's fact. That is why it would be highly responsible for the time and the only reason to stop with this dirt in just one direction, to develop information and not to align the opposition's ÖVP with the fact that it would prevent the start of the investigation committee. Who has prevented a committee of inquiry by voting more than 20 times here in Parliament? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] – That was the SPÖ and the ÖVP for years! Now we have established a minority right. The negotiators are also very grateful for the fact that this has come about. Now there is this committee, and there are all the facts that have been brought to light in order to prevent the future, for the years to come, decades and for the taxpayers that there is another approach that fundamentally damages the taxpayer; which not only harms him because his tax money is being used for the damage in the Hypo, HETA or whatever is called in the future, but also by the fact that the Federal Government – which has become obvious today – will not fail to take advantage of the hypo again and again as an excuse if it does not allow important and proper support for the population in Austria – no matter in any area, from health to social health to the labour market. That's too little. Take responsibility, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00063_d8e7620	The next item is Mrs Lichtenecker's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00063_d8e7641	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Minister! Dear Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Mag. You can speak beautifully about the history of how the largest financial debacle of this republic has come to be, but there is now at last the sub- search committee, and this investigation committee will clarify the motives, profiters, situations of interest – that is good – and will now also begin its work. On Sunday, the 1. In March, the Financial Markets Supervisory Authority issued by decision the payment moratorium for the HETA. We believe that this is an important and right step, and since we believe it is so important that this path is now going to continue consistently and in all its conclusions, I will make a further request from the Green Group: [[Quoted print version removed]] All here, including you, are cordially invited to support this motion for a resolution so that we can jointly confirm that a new path must now be taken. [[turning to the government bank]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is good because the citizens are rightly outraged and appalled by this largest financial scandal in the Second Republic. Before nationalization and after nationalization, the billions have been reduced. We must also remember that even more than €250 million of consulting costs have been paid in. Now an important step has been taken to finally end a route of failure, and that has long been the time. I have mentioned that motives, profits and interests will be clarified in the Committee of Inquiry. There have been many mistakes: the incredible levels of liability that the country has taken over from Carinthia, the lack of risk monitoring and management systems in the bank and the question that still needs to be clarified where the supervision was throughout the course – from the Supervisory Boards of the Bank to the Land Holding, Financial Procuratorship, Financial Market Supervision to the role of the OeNB. Even after nationalization, the clear strategy has failed. Even the recommendation of the International Monetary Fund in 2013 that the loans in need should be transferred to a Bad Bank was ignored by the Ministry of Finance. Questions about questions that arise. The Griss report also noted several times that the responsible decision-makers of the federal government were very unprofessional. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fekter.]] One thing, Mr Bundeskanzler, is clear: The focus is always on the Minister of Finance and the Finance Ministers in these times – quite rightly – but, as in a company of the Director-General, the overall responsibility for the Federal Government in this case is the Federal Chancellor. We want to demand these in this form, and we also want to have a clear positioning of you. Of course, this not only concerns the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, but also the Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Economic Affairs over the years, because a well-functioning, well-functioning financial place is a decisive basis for a good development of the economy. Appropriate expertise on how important this is and how important it would have been to deal with this bank is enough. But what is needed now? – The Ministry of Finance needs professional handling, and we also believe that the right step has now been taken. It is also clear that we must not be irritated now, because of course there is a form of excitement. However, I am generally convinced that this can have a lasting positive effect if it is now consistently acted upon and the procedure is clear, namely to keep in mind the objective of keeping the damage to taxpayers as low as possible and to negotiate a clear creditor participation, a debt cut. The challenges must be addressed consistently, and it is a challenge to deal with taxpayers at all levels responsibly, carefully and sparingly. This not only concerns the large area of the hypo – it is the tip of the iceberg – but also the speculation scandal in Salzburg, think of the swap scandal in Linz! There is unprofessionality and failure over long distances as public funds are involved. Now there is a chance to carry out professionalisation and modernisation here and to continue this step consistently in the light of the short- and medium-term successes for taxpayers.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00063_d8e7737	Ladies and gentlemen, did you not want to put forward another motion for a resolution? - Have you already? [[Abg. Lichtenecker: (on the way to their seat) I have already introduced it at the beginning!]] - Excuse me, then I actually missed him, which should not happen to me. Then I note that the request is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00063_d8e7817	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Vetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00063_d8e7838	God, Mr President! Federal Chancellor! Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! The moratorium is a wire rope act that I do not envy the Minister of Finance with God. One could now talk for a long time about the effects of such a moratorium on tax and legal morality in a country in which a national bank no longer pays its debts. If you say at the beginning of March that you don't pay the debt, and then in mid-March you tell the citizens that you want to achieve €1.9 billion by consistently fighting the previous corruption, then this may not be entirely in relation. People will rather not understand why they should pay everything if the state does not. For a long time, one can also philosophy about whether the long hesitation, the government’s long-standing hesitation, was not very smart. We have waited until we have an appropriate legal regime, also agreed with the EU, and then we can go on a path as it has just gone. But it can also be said – the expression of “small Greece” has already fallen – that the Greeks in the government have prevailed: On the one hand, it is said that the debts are not paid, and on the other hand, it is said that the more consistent fight against corruption, as said, brings up up to €1.9 billion. If there really were tax evasions at this level, if it were really true that Austrian companies were as corrupt as is obviously the tax reform concept, then hundreds of entrepreneurs would have to go to prison for tax evasion, and the Minister of Justice would have long since made a request that a new large-scale prison be built. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I also have a little abdominal pain when the FMA gets operational here. I already have abdominal pains when, in a stock company of the Supervisory Board, I assume operational responsibility beyond the supervision. If one mixes responsibilities, there is often no good result. That's also the problem that the state has. The state is the one that makes the rules, he's the referee and he's a co-operator. Therefore, market participants also look very skeptical as soon as the debt is no longer paid in this concentration of power. But I would like to see the matter from one side, just like Mr Lugar, a little positive. If the Minister of Finance succeeds in drawing on the anger of the two most powerful heads of state of Austria within two weeks, then I think you have to pull the hat. When Mr Sobotka and the next day Mr Erwin Pröll come to the cameras and attack Mr. Finanzminister for the HETA and, as just a few days ago, the mayor of Vienna, after the Minister of Finance has given him the right to the pension special schemes in Vienna, who is also standing in front of the cameras and who tells the Minister, but who is in Vienna, must really congratulate the current Minister of Finance, because these two people are the ones who stand for the old system. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In Austria, it is simply the case that there are a few national leaders holding a federal government that in this country the tail is racing with the dog. If you manage to restore the relationship between the federal government and countries, if you manage to beg the dog back with the tail, then it all really made sense, and for that I push the thumbs.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00063_d8e7899	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Meinl-Risinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00063_d8e7920	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Minister of Finance! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear viewers! Mr Vetter, I am going to get into the same horn, because I too believe that in this Republic more of the tail is racing with the dog than the other way round. I am also hopeful, although a little bit of basic skepticism, that something can succeed here. Mr Finanzminister! We NEOS have always said that we support this – even those current steps you have taken correctly. That is to say, the reason why we are sitting here now is not a criticism of you and of the procedure, but – rightly said by the previous speakers of Greens and FPÖ – that it has been a question of getting a confession and a statement by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic who has not spoken in this and in other matters, which are quite enormous dimensions for this Republic until now. I also believe that it is not particularly helpful and encouraging to put the issue of guilt with regard to party-political guilt all the time. This will be an issue in the Committee of Inquiry, which hopefully begins to work soon, and we will clarify it there. What we are trying to do with the requests we are making today is to say that there is a breeding ground for such a thing as the hypo scandal can happen at all. There is a breeding ground for the fact that what happened in Klagenfurt may also happen in other capitals. Now I'm right back to the question of whether the cock fits with the dog or vice versa. We have already heard of the volume of liability that exists in the federal states as a whole: €35 billion. This is more than 10 percent of GDP. - That's a topic. The second issue I would like to talk about today is the question of how to achieve real responsibility promotionism – responsibility for the budget and responsibility for full transparency. In this respect, it is still said to date: Missing! Then there is the question of how to get a responsibility that is not speculated with tax money. A lot has already been said about the country's liability. It has also been said that this was up to now a very lucrative and speculative business. I would point out that there are not only Carinthia but also other federal states. In Vienna, for example, the Court of Auditors points out that €7 billion still stand for Bank Austria. This is not comparable because UniCredit Bank Austria is relatively robust. If you look at what happened there for price losses – that is, before the crisis about €24 per share, now €6 – then you have to say: This is a volume that exceeds more than half of the annual budget. I now come to the issue of responsibilitylessness and transparency. It has not yet been mentioned that by 2002 these liabilities of the country of Carinthia had not even been identified. By 2002, these amounts were not included in the accounts. [[Abg. Kogler: Right!]] That is to say, the question of how transparent the country's budgetary arrangements are, is a very crucial question. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Kogler]] Mr Finanzminister, I am also very pleased to hear the message here that meters are being made as regards a unified budgetary law as regards a change to the Doppik, I think it is very essential. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light ecker]] If I look back at a report on the Court of Auditors, for example in Vienna, I see that more than twice as much of the city's education is given, outsourced into areas that are part of the city's businesses and as such do not even have their own legal personality – and yet they are not to be found in the city's budget. That's an intolerable state! We look forward and want the insolvency right for countries. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would like to make another request, a new attempt to find federal uniform regulations for a genuine ban on speculation at the federal level. There was an excuse under your leadership in the Ministry of Finance. [[in the direction of the Abg. Frameset]] Now there are different national laws, I think it is important to have a uniform speculation ban, and therefore submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Unfortunately, why this is so important now is not possible because the lamb is already blinking, but of course it is still speculated. It is also speculation with Swiss-Franken-Krebiten nothing but an Am-Casino-table sitting, with the means of taxpayers, and as I really wish for uniform regulations, a clear confession that with tax money is not speculated. Another lever – we have already made fifty requests – which I consider to be very, very essential, would naturally be to talk about the question of the promotion of the parties. The tail will be wedded with the dog for so long as the national parties are most equipped by the party funding to the Federation. 22 € is the corridor, for example in Vienna this is more than exhausted and ultimately valorized. That's just wrong! That's not responsibilities federalism, that's donor federalism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00063_d8e8049	Mrs Mag. Meinl-Reisinger's motions for resolutions which have just been read are sufficiently supported and are therefore under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00063_d8e8177	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Unterrainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00063_d8e8198	Mr. Strache is not in the hall now, but still: [[call to the FPÖ]] Congratulations, Mr. Strache, you have collected 700 000 € in connection with the purchase of the lake via your former FP member Kaufmann-Bruckberger! My question: Does the FPÖ actually pay back the money now, or does the party come back first and Austria last? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schimanek]] It's just dishonest, but it's just FPÖ! If you want to say now that you didn't know anything about it, you're acting like the defendant himself. If you had only one trace – Mr. Strache is not in space – then you would come out here, apologize to the people in this country and pay the money back immediately. You can also bring the money to a good end: for poor people, for people who need it. You certainly didn't deserve it! My question: Why are we here today, and why does our Federal Chancellor Werner Faymannine have to make a statement on the settlement of the hypo-degradation bank HETA? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schimanek.]] Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciated spectators on the gallery and in front of the televisions! We all know it: because the FPÖ has the biggest pleite to answer in the Second Republic and is trying to put off the blame. [[Abg. Schimanek: Max, please!]] [[Abg. Stefan: Generate the party itself!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Podgorschek.]] We know: Because the largest financial scandal in the Second Republic has come under the supervision of a FPÖ-led government and under the supervision of blue financial referents, today we have a huge debt mountain – and that is why: Thank you, FPÖ! If the masters of the FPÖ are still so windy and try to put the blame on others: You can't steal from it before you're responsible. And, towards Mr. Strache, death does not protect against guilt. The truth is, you've been leading people behind the light for years by the FPÖ. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schimanek.]] The truth is that your party was constantly involved in corruption scandals and bribery. We have now taken the creditors into the duty to protect the people. That's the truth! – We can also play the game differently. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stefan.]] [[Abg. Podgorschek: in front of the committee of inquiry!]] They log in to speak and then go out; that would be the correct approach. But it's the FPÖ, you don't need to wonder. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schimanek.]] The green colleague Werner Kogler, too, says – I quote him – that it is “an intelligent solution” to protect the people who have to pay the taxes. We, as government parties, have assumed responsibility, we have cleared up those shards that the FPÖ has left behind. [[call to the FPÖ]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Stefan and Mr Schimanek.]] We do it with reason, that is why we have also decided to have a moratorium to make enough time for the decisions – decisions that are necessary because the FPÖ has lied and deceived the people of Carinthia and Austria for years. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stefan.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Mr President! I don't know, but maybe you should intervene!]] The liabilities that people in this country now cost so much have decided to have FPÖ politicians themselves as criticisms from a wide variety of points – from the EU, the Independent Administrative Senate or the Chamber of Commerce. However, they have continued to do so and have abused the Hypo Alpe-Adria as a milk cow. [[Abg. Stefan: Tirol!]] Mr Strache – I can repeat this once again – has already said today: ‘Renewal does good’. That's right! That's why: Never forget who's to blame for this hypo-debakel! I am saving myself to mention now that it was the FPÖ. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schimanek.]] Willy Brandt said: “The best way to predict the future is to shape it.” – We shape the future. [[Abg. Stefan: So why the SPÖ in Tyrol is not successful!]] With responsibility and thought, we protect people. The FPÖ obviously only protects its own friends. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Podgorschek.]] In conclusion: I am looking forward to the Committee of Inquiry to finally get clarity and to develop structural reforms so that this grandeur's search, as practiced in Carinthia by the head of state and financial institutions, can never be taken care of in this country again. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00063_d8e8392	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Smoking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00063_d8e8414	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr Finanzminister! I think we are taking a positive view of this day that almost all opposition parties have also pledged support as regards the procedure proposed by the Minister of Finance and the whole of the Federal Government when it comes to the ITA process. I believe that the decisive thing is that a clear decision has been made at government level, that the ITA should be handled as tax-free as possible, especially in a transparent European legal framework. I also believe that the decision to stop pumping fresh taxpayers' money into the ITA is quite right. However, what I do not like about today's debate is the following: The issue should actually be the ITA process, but some are already in the pre-election mode, for example colleague Beate Meinl-Reisinger – Vienna country elections – and we are talking at one time about the promotion of parties that is too high. – I understand the NEOS. If a party joins the Vorarlberg municipal council last week in four out of 96 municipalities, it does not need any promotion of the party. Therefore, Mr Hable is coming, and I believe that the U-committee is an important tool to clarify the past, so that the political – if you are not present in the federal states – in Tyrol there is no there, there is no NEOS at all – then there is no need to promote parties. [[Abg. Stroll: heads of state! I mean, that's not great either, let's be honest!]] You're the top polemen, because you've been in election mode for weeks, you've been posterting all over the city. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] It's really ridiculous to have something like that with the HETA. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl: Head of Party and Minister of Finance]] But if you do not have any party structures, of course you do not need to promote parties either. It's relatively simple. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Back to the U-committee: If Mr Hable stands up and says that ÖVP and SPÖ are delaying the U-committee, I really have to laugh. The U.C. Committee can start tomorrow if it goes after us, after the ÖVP. We have to say that there is a speaking time agreement – which Mr Hable apparently did not read – which is set out in the Rules of Procedure of the National Council. And if he regrets, there are no witness charges: Then you have to meet with the other opposition parties once. This is a minority right, including information persons can be loaded at any time. Test So you don't always have to, if you don't succeed yourself, to push that on to us. We can start tomorrow with the U Committee, but you are apparently not willing to do something about this. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz]] It's all there, we're all trying to explain it, but we're not gonna let ourselves be told that we're delaying something there. [[Abg. Brosz: Do you already have the files?]] Now you are in the responsibility, and you can see that nothing goes on at all, for example, if you are in charge of NEOS. [[Abg. Kogler: That's incredible! How to investigate files without files?]] We would like to start tomorrow with the U-committee. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00063_d8e8521	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Rossmann. Ladies and gentlemen, I must draw your attention to the fact that your club's remaining speaking time is unfortunately only 1 minute. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00063_d8e8549	Mr President. High house! A few brief remarks: After the decision to deal with the ITA, not what SPÖ and ÖVP always wanted to make us believe – a great damage to the Austrian financial centre and exploding costs for the The operation of public debt – but the opposite is true. A comparison with Germany regarding the benchmarks shows us that the distance is as low as never before – seven basis points on the one hand – and has also fallen since the beginning of the year. So that's panic that didn't do anything. – This is the first aspect. The second point: After Moody’s downgrading, Carinthia is, of course, in a very difficult situation, as overall by the decision that was made there. Carinthia therefore needs four types: First of all, it is necessary to ensure that the new debt is financed through the Austrian Federal Finance Agency. Secondly, it is necessary to ensure that Carinthia receives professional support – but at eye level; not by sending a troika, but really at eye level. The third thing that is needed is solidarity between Carinthia, the Federation and the other countries. And fourth, insolvency for countries. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00063_d8e8588	The last speaker was Mr Ertlschweiger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00063_d8e8609	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Faith You're really interested in anyone if you're going to blame each other? To say: He's to blame! He's to blame! He's to blame, it's totally pointless. For the people, for the taxpayer – for the plagued Austrian taxpayer! – is simply fixed: We have a hypo-alpe-Adria debacle, and that costs us – nobody can count it exactly – 20 billion €. This is a fact, ladies and gentlemen: The bill is paid by the taxpayer, we all pay! The problem on the whole is that the damage caused by these years of painting and inactivity, combined with a failure of all control organs, has been even maximized. In fact, this makes people speechless, and every normal person is attacking his head! If the government now sells us the planned tax reform as a major milestone, ladies and gentlemen, then we have to face it briefly: 20 billion € costs us the Hypo Alpe-Adria – and the planned tax reform brings 5 billion €! So this is going to be four times. I just think of this: In Austria, ladies and gentlemen, the “-los” humanity reigns – brave, visionless and ultimately helpless. I do not put any ambiguity on the part of the actors in the government – I do not put it under them at all! – because I think they have good approaches and also want to move on. Only: They repeatedly fail with reforms in their party apparatus and bite their teeth out there if they only take the word “reform” into their mouths. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] That is exactly what it is, ladies and gentlemen, that we need! We need to think about reform, because everything else will take us short or long. Drop your head. We need a reform mentality, in the context of which hot potatoes are also taken out of the fire. Everyone in this House knows that we need a pension reform, a tax reform that deserves this name, a health reform, an educational reform and a federalism reform. The concepts are all in the drawer, we only have to trust to implement them. The tax reform, ladies and gentlemen, may well be meant, but it is nothing but a redeployment. Mr Strache said it right today: The real problems in the Republic are not addressed. That's it! Unfortunately, even though we have been negotiating for so long, we have not used the tax reform to make real changes, because in the field of counter-financing we have been extremely unwilling to reform, we have acted extremely cruelly and have only satisfied our own clients again. And this, ladies and gentlemen, doesn't bring us any further. All the measures that would have brought really significant savings, however, have taken away the powerful lobbys of SPÖ or ÖVP privileges. Finally, ladies and gentlemen: If the registration fee obligation is really the biggest concern in this country and one really places the greatest potential in the sekkierery of our host, then we know how much it has hit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00063_d8e8679	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. The agenda is exhausted. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues on the German Chancellor's declaration of guarantee to minimise the hypo-damage for taxpayers. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Whoever is for this, please give a sign. – This is the minority and therefore also rejected. Debates of the European Parliament Meinl-Reisinger and colleagues on the United Speculation Prohibition. Whoever is for that, please give a sign. – This is the minority and therefore also rejected. [[11:56:39]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2015-03-18-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00063_d8e8752	I am still announcing that self-employed applications 974/A(E) to 987/A(E) were tabled at today's meeting. Question No 4189/J to 4209/J has also been raised. The next meeting of the National Council, held on Wednesday, 25 May. March 2015, 9 a.m., is envisaged, will be convened in writing. Before I close this meeting, I announce that immediately after this meeting of the Court of Auditors, the Federal Council meeting room will meet and that the Environment Committee will hold its meeting at 3 p.m. in local VIII. This meeting is closed.
