ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00090_d7e467	I'll open the 90. Meeting of the National Council. Deputies of the Muchitsch, Schopf, Grillitsch, Himmelbauer, Höfinger, Jank, Däddel, Jarmer, Mückstein, Pilz, Pirklhuber, Willi, Hackl, Jannach, Kickl, Lauch and Neubauer are reported as prevented. [[17:19:43]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00090_d7e498	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[17:20:01]] 1. Point Re-election of the main committee
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00090_d7e715	We're now on the 1st. Agenda item. Following an agreement at the Presidential Conference as a result of a change in the strength ratio of the clubs, the number of members of the main committee should be fixed by 28. This is set in accordance with § 30 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure a decision shall be taken by the National Council. I would therefore ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the proposal to set the number of members of the main committee by 28 in order to be a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. Thus, according to § 30 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure on the SPÖ club eight members, on the ÖVP club eight members, on the FPÖ club six members, on the Green Club four members, on the Club of NEOS a member, on the Parliament Club Team Stronach a member. It is therefore due to the electoral lists according to § 30 para. 2 and 3 of the Rules of Procedure: from the SPÖ Club: Doris Bures, Dr. Josef Cap, Anton Heinzl, Kai Jan Krainer, Mag. Christine Muttonen, Mag. Andreas Schieder, Hannes Wenninger, Mag. Gisela Worm ; from the ÖVP-Klub: Werner Amon, MBA, Mag. Wolfgang Gerstl, Fritz Grillitsch, Brigitte Jank, Karlheinz Kopf, Dr. Reinhold Lopatka, Ing. Hermann Schultes, August Wöinger ; from the FPÖ Club: Dr. Dagmar Belakovich-Jenewein, Dr. Reinhard Eugen Bösch, Ing. Norbert Hofer, Dr. Johannes Hübner, Dr. Walter Rosenkranz, Heinz-Christian Strache ; from the Green Club: Dr. Eva Glawischnig-Piesczek, Dr. Peter Pilz, Tanja Windbüchler-Souschill, Mag. Dr. Wolfgang Zinggl ; from NEOS Club: May. Dr. Matthias Strolz; from Club Team Stronach: Ing. Waltraud Dietrich. This also involves the election and appointment of the members of the main committee. [[17:22:09]] 2. Point Re-election of committees pursuant to section 32(1) of the Rules of Procedure
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00090_d7e965	We'll get to the 2nd. Agenda item. According to § 32 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure shall be re-elected as soon as the President has informed changes in the force ratio of the clubs. The Committees set up to date with 24 and 18 members are affected by changes. The National Council shall determine the number of members and substitute members. Members and alternate members shall be distributed to parliamentary clubs in proportion to the number of Members who belong to them. After consulting the members of the Presidential Conference, a committee size of 28 members and replacement members is now proposed by common accord for the existing committees with 24 and 18 members and replacement members, each of whom is divided according to the d’Hondt system: Each eight members and replacement members on the SPÖ and ÖVP, each six members and replacement members on the FPÖ, four members and substitute members on the Greens, one member and one replacement member on the NEOS and Parliament Club Team Stronach. I shall now vote on the amendments to the Committee size from 24 to 18 to 28 members and replacement members respectively. Whoever speaks for it, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. The names of the clubs according to § 32 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure announced as members or substitutes and thus as elected Members will be mentioned in the Stenographical Protocol. [[The members and replacement members as well as the elected functions are available on the Internet under ‘www.parliament.gv.at – Parliament Aktiv> Committees’.]] The agenda is exhausted. [[17:24:17]] Decision to terminate the 2015 extraordinary meeting
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00090_d7e1037	I would like to make the following request from the honourable Member. Arbitrator, Dr. Lopatka, Ing. Hofer, Dr. Strolz, Ing. Lugar, Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues before: “The President of the Federal Republic of Germany is asked to attend the extraordinary meeting of the XXV in 2015. National Council legislative period at the end of the 1st century. to be declared terminated on September 2015.” I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this request for a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[17:25:05]] Reading of a part of the Official Protocol
ParlaMint-AT_2015-09-01-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00090_d7e1070	I have the written request of 20 Members, the proposed version of the official minutes of this meeting of the National Council on agenda items 1 and 2 and the decision to end the 2015 extraordinary meeting of the XXV. To read the legislative period of the National Council so that these parts are deemed approved at the end of the meeting. I now read the corresponding parts of the Official Protocol: ‘TO point 1: Re-election of the main committee Following an agreement at the Presidential Conference as a result of a change in the strength ratio of the clubs, the number of members shall be fixed unanimously with 28 members. The SPÖ Club and the ÖVP Club each account for 8 members, the FPÖ Club 6 members, the Green Club 4 members, the NEOS Club and the STRONACH Club each. On the basis of the lists submitted, the following Members shall be deemed to be elected: From the SPÖ Club: Doris Bures Dr. Josef Cap Anton Heinzl Kai Jan Krainer May. Christine Muttonen May. Andreas Schieder Hannes Wenninger May. Gisela Worm from the ÖVP-Klub: Werner Amon, MBA May. Wolfgang Gerstl Fritz Grillitsch Brigitte Jank Karlheinz Kopp Dr Reinhold Lopatka Ing. Hermann Schultes August Woeinger from the FPÖ Club: Dr. Dagmar Belakovich-Jenewein Dr Reinhard Eugen Bösch Ing. Norbert Hofer Dr. Johannes Hübner Dr. Walter Rosenkranz Heinz-Christian Strache from the Green Club: Dr Eva Glavischnig-Piesczek Dr. Peter Pilz Tanja Windbühler-Souschill May. Dr Wolfgang Zinggl from NEOS Club: May. Dr Matthias Strolz of the Club STRONACH: Ing. Waltraud Dietrich TO point 2: Re-election of committees according to § 32 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure The new election must be made due to the changes in the strength ratio of the clubs. The number of existing committees is currently 18 and 18 respectively. 24 members and replacement members shall be adopted unanimously with 28 members and replacement members. The SPÖ Club and the ÖVP Club each account for 8 members, the FPÖ Club 6 members, the GREEN Club 4 members, and the NEOS Club and the STRONACH Club each of 1 members. At the request of the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Arbitrator, Dr. Lopatka, Ing. Hofer, Mag. Dr. Strolz, Ing. Lugar, Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues (Annex C) the National Council unanimously adopted the following decision: "The President of the Federal Republic of Germany is asked to attend the extraordinary meeting of the XXV in 2015. National Council legislative period at the end of the 1st century. To be declared finished on September 15, 2015.’ Are there any objections to the version or content of those parts of the Official Protocol? - That's not the case. These parts of the Official Protocol are therefore applicable in accordance with section 51 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure as approved at the end of this sitting. The next meeting of the National Council, held on Wednesday, 23. It will be convened in writing at 9 a.m. on September 2015. I would point out that the constitutions of the newly elected committees take place immediately following the plenary meetings in the National Council Hall. Since this is a non-public meeting, I am looking for visitors and media representatives to leave the hall and remain the committee members or their representatives in the meeting room. This meeting is closed.
