ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e3103	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the 77. Meeting of the National Council, which is based on a sufficiently supported request in accordance with § 46 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure. The Official Protocols of 73 and 74. ==References== ==References====External links== Meeting of 21 March 1991 In May 2015, the European Parliament's Directorate remained in a state of disrepute and undisputed state. As prevented, Members of the Church are reported, Mag. Worm, strike, fichtinger, Dr. Winter, Mag. Korun, Mag. Musiol and Muchich. [[10:01:03]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e3137	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[10:01:13]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e3364	Deputies Dr. Strolz, Ing. Mr Dietrich, ladies and gentlemen, asked for the self-employed motion 1193/A(E) by Mr Strolz, Mr Ing. Dietrich, ladies and gentlemen, on 'Stop the surveillance state: Gläsner State instead of treating glass citizens in an urgent manner. Call for urgent request will take place at 1 p.m. I announce that this session of ORF III will be broadcast live in full length. I am now interrupting the sitting until 1 p.m.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e3404	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I will resume the interrupted session. [[13:00:55]] Request for urgent procedure of Deputies Mag. Dr. Matthias Strolz, Ing. Waltraud Dietrich, colleagues on 'Stop the surveillance state: Glass state instead of glass citizens’ (1193/A)(E)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e3444	We come to the urgent treatment of the self-employed application 1193/A(E). As he has now approached all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the writer. The urgent application has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e3576	For the reasons of this urgent request, I give Mr Klubobmann the floor to Dr. Strolz. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that according to § 74a para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed the speaking time of 20 minutes. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e3597	Madam President. Dear Members of the Government! Ladies and gentlemen, Estimated citizens here on the gallery and at home on the screens! [[The speaker shall place a surveillance camera with the title “Surveillance State” on the speaker’s desk.]] Do you feel observed? – That’s a question you probably don’t ask each day, but you should ask yourself, because you’re being watched. Your actions will be measured, your decisions will be stored, your fingerprints will be taken, and the surveillance state is on the acceleration track. This Federal Government has the same idea of installing a surveillance camera – symbolically speaking – in your living room, if you are a businessman or a businessman, in your business location.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e3630	Excuse me, honourable Member. – Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I'm trying to reduce the noise level in the plenary session room a little so that we can really follow Dr. Strolz's statements. – Please, honourable Member, continue!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e3645	Thank you, Madam President. – The level of noise is quite symptomatic, because this federal government is trying to curtail your freedom in passing, valued citizens, a little more every day – passing by. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] We are trying not to raise this issue in general noise, but the citizens have very well overcome, Minister of Finance Schelling, that there is something on the go. My parliamentary speech from the last sitting was seen over half a million times. Citizens have noted: There's something going on, where it's not going well for me as a citizen and a citizen where something is going wrong in that state. You want to make us a glass citizen, and as a state you are not ready to live transparency. That is where we need to reverse the facts, and I want to talk about it today because it is absolutely inappropriate to suspect, ladies and gentlemen, the citizen and the citizen, born freely, even in dignity. If you, valued citizens, at some point had a cleaning woman in the house without you having regulated it via the service check, if you had sometime a nanny you didn't log in, then you should be careful. They are extortionable because in the next few years your data will be stored, your actions measured, your fingerprints taken. On the other hand, one state, one like no other, hiding behind his official secret. We have the last place in international rankings on freedom of information. We have a law of official secrecy, with which we try everywhere to keep the information secret from the citizens. We write the year five and a half after the so-called emergency nationalization of the Hypo Alpe-Adria, where at that time in the Kärntner Landtag ÖVP and SPÖ voted together with FPÖ for these absurd liabilities of over €20 billion, and you have still not managed to make it five years after this emergency nationalization that we force the federal states to disclose the liability. Mr Finanzminister! You can turn this off from a Michael Häupl because he says: It's none of your business. But I am already concerned about this as a citizen, and all the citizens who look at it are also concerned. Why? - Because they pay it. They pay these privileges, which Mr Häupl and others hide and, of course, do not want to make public out of bad conscience and therefore for good reason. We write the year two and a half to Salzburg, where over a billion were speculated. The financial reference of the State of Salzburg takes place in December 2012 and says: Well, we speculated there, but I don't know to what extent. It comes out: over a billion, half of the land budget, and they don't know what they are doing. They didn't even have a simple Excel sheet in Salzburg, which documents what they did, and that's absurd. While we are forcing entrepreneurs with a turnover of more than €700 000 per year into double accounting, Minister of Finance, this government has still not managed to introduce double accounting for billions of budgets anywhere in the last two and a half years. And the citizen is further suspected because it is the motto of this government: We'll get you! We'll get you, dear citizen, dear citizen! We'll catch you! - What? [[Call the SPÖ:Where?]] With all kinds of things. They are not able to handle the big things. The large corporations are still going abroad without significant tax contributions. They are unable to regulate this at European level. But the middle class, you want to scrutinize them like a lemon, the individual citizen, you want to scrutinize them. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] What are the last attacks you're planning? – You want to consult each account without a judicial decision. You want to know: Where are you a member of which clubs? Which subscription do you refer to which paper, which magazine? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Where were you last on vacation? You're at a massage club. [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] You want to collect this data. Ladies and gentlemen, you want to drive the citizens into delinquency, you want to drive the citizens into dependence. If you are here, ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, can we rest here again? [[Abg. Lopatka: This is not to be taken seriously!]] [[Unrest in the hall.]] I hardly hear my own word.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e3717	Ladies and gentlemen! I drew attention to this a few minutes ago. Interlocutory calls are, of course, part of a living parliamentaryism, but not if one can no longer follow the speaker's statements. [[Abg. Kickl: Sometimes it's the only sign of life!]] That is why I am trying to reduce the general noise level in such a way – without any talks being possible – that they can continue to be conducted – that one can also follow the speaker's statements. [[Abg. Rädler: This is the case!]] I call Mr Strolz.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e3757	Mr Rädler, if you want to make all this ridiculous, and if I have seen people in the SPÖ and ÖVP sectors here who make it ridiculous that people are going to be put into dependence, then I can bring a very personal experience report at this point. [[Call the ÖVP: You're making fun of this!]] When I decided to go to politics, my closest colloquiums were brought several times as follows: We'll kill him in two days when it's ready. [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] This came from the Secretary-General of a government party. [[Call SPÖ and ÖVP:Who? Who?]] And this party has set up a working group that has systematically collected data about the exponents of NEOS. Obviously they didn't find anything. [[Subsequent calls at SPÖ and ÖVP.]] My luck is that I never had a baby girl black, that I never had a cleaning woman black – otherwise I wouldn't be here today as a party leader. This information will be collected completely structured in the future. But I can also tell you what I have experienced. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] My co-initiator got a tax check all of a sudden. Other candidates sitting in Parliament today suddenly received tax audits when we founded this party. I got the cancellation of a bank credit, from the bright sky. The bank loan was promised by a Landesbank and was later withdrawn. [[Abg. Wöginger: Chastisement-Wahn!]] – That’s not persecution, these are very concrete experiences! It goes even further: When we were recently candidates in Burgenland, we had the need to collect declarations of support. Your threat goes so far that people at parish offices have been received with the following words: Ah, you want to sign here for NEOS? We don't like to see that here. [[Call the SPÖ:Where? Where?]] And not even political dignitaries say that. They go so far that even community officials do this to citizens. [[Call the SPÖ:Where? Who?]] We had people, primary doctors, who have attended an event from us, who were later quoted as their minister. They've been told: We do not wish for any political agitation if you want an extension of your contract. [[Call the SPÖ:Who?]] [[Call to the SPÖ:What municipality?]] We had teachers who donated €100 and were later forced by the service provider. [[Abg. Matznetter: The NEOS are eh!]] I met a journalist today who told me how he was punished with a social security procedure and financial procedure after writing particularly critically. I met people who were driving around the community five times because they said: I had to look – because there is a liner list – whether I can get in there, because I need this kindergarten place for my grandson. And at the church he was already meant: Look, if you're exhibiting yourself here, there's no such thing as that! I met people who were told: Attention, this wipe, this statement of support, take it back, because we can discuss that at the next construction negotiations, right? [[Abg. Matznetter: The NEOS!]] So now you can make fun of all this. These are all concrete experiences. And in this situation do you go here and want to open people's accounts without a judicial decision? To collect this information? – To make people extortionable, to make them dependent, intimidating. There are enough studies to prove that a progressive surveillance state naturally leads to self-censorship. And again: If you had found anything against me in my CV, I wouldn't stand there today. They collect very structured data and information. I can remind you again: Germany has introduced the survey into the accounts without a judicial decision in 2005 and at that time 8 700 accounts have been opened. Last year, 230 000 accounts were already opened in Germany – from 8 700 to 230 000 cases. In Germany, the Arbeitsamt can now open accounts without having to document major suspicions, without legal certainty et cetera. From 2013 to 2014 alone, the cases in Germany rose from 142 000 to 230 000. This is the surveillance state, valued citizens. This is the camera that will be installed with you, because ÖVP and SPÖ are acting on the assumption that there is something there to find that you are under general suspicion that they will get you. This is the message of the state. That is why the state is not prepared to take its own back, but is here in a sense of self-esteem. It is the state for the citizen and not the citizen for the state. Then I ask you: Why do we, the last one in Europe, still need official secrecy in this form? Then I ask: Why, Minister of Finance, would you like to take the fingerprints for suspicion without a judicial decision? [[Abg. Brosz: Why?]] That's what I'm asking: Why does the Minister of the Interior want to reintroduce data storage, although the European Court of Justice and also the Austrian Constitutional Court have said that it is a fundamental illegality, it is a circumcision of freedom and civil rights which is not permitted? – They want to re-introduce it in a mitigated form. Then I ask: Why do you want to introduce a state protection law, an domestic intelligence service where every neighbor can be a V-man, in the tradition of a GDR without parliamentary control? Where do we come from if you, without parliamentary control, sometimes even send criminals into this domestic secret service? Why Needed Do you have a legal basis for nine national secret services? Now, should every prince of the state get his own secret service, or where are we? Why have you been in Switzerland and Norway and looked at it as a parliamentary delegation, how it is controlled by Parliament, and do not implement it in Austria, but let it be granted free? All these questions are open. All these questions are open, ladies and gentlemen. And you're out of control, you're stuck into your phones, into your computers, and you don't want to ask yourself in the government parties of the question. There are some, Minister of Finance, who have been careful – the western axis of the ÖVP, which says: That is not the way to do this, it is not possible to suspect the citizens of our country in general! Today, Minister of Finance, is your revelation. How do you do that? How do you deal with your own critical voices in the party? How do you deal with the concerns of the Federal Chancellor's Office's Constitutional Service? – The Federal Chancellery also says that this is not the case, Minister. And I'm asking you: What are you gonna do? You can't put all of this aside and say: Mule basket for all – mule basket for the constitutional service of the Federal Chancellor's Office. This camera, valued citizens, should come to your living room. [[the speaker shall keep the surveillance camera up to date]] Completely Inhibited in the Future Your doing is measured, your decisions are stored and your fingerprints are taken. That is why we make the following demands: First, no opening of accounts without judicial decision. We are a rule of law, and if there is a suspicion, then we are in favour of opening accounts on the basis of judicial decision. Of course, we should be determined against black money, against tax evasion. We are a rule of law: Opening with judicial decision. And, Peter Pilz, this is, of course, the paint must test for you. You've decided for several times what you're for. After all, you've weathered: There is no opening of accounts without judicial decision. And we'll take the greens at the floor. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] I saved this Tweet. They are under observation, Mr Pilz, on this question. I'll document you. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the NEOS as well as with representatives of FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] You can't stand out there and make it here on fundamental rights fighters, touring Europe and representing citizens' rights – of course, great. I appreciate your commitment, but I hope you're not in a double condition. [[Abg. Pilz: Fingerprints? Fingerprints?]] – Yes, the fingerprints, this will be the following: Will you allow fingerprints in the financial sector? [[Abg. Brosz: That's what you want! It's in there!]] Will you allow that or not? Stock data storage – will You're going here or not? The hour of the Greens will come where it will be shown whether they will make the climber for the circumcision of rights of freedom – yes or no. We have saved your debates. We'll see if you're gonna keep a word here or not. Secondly, no authorization to collect fingerprints and IP addresses. You also want to collect IP addresses. This too will be the question: Are you producing the two-thirds majority for the non-inhibited collection of IP addresses or not? [[Abg. Pillow: Are you with the NEOS or?]] [[Abg. Brosz: Not over!]] Thirdly, no passenger data storage in the European Union. Please sit down on the other hand! Fourthly, no re-introduction of data storage. We are very much opposed to that. [[Abg. Brosz: It's not in it!]] We will make our own request today, Mr Brosz. Fifthly, parliamentary control of the intelligence service. Of course, the intelligence service needs parliamentary control. [[Abg. Pilz: And how?]] Sixteenths: It needs an efficient and effective transfer and transparency database. What you did years ago, Minister, at last bring this to an end, and don't let any of these plans pass through by any country princes who, of course, still want to feed their clients shamelessly without being observed. That's what we've got to watch! Why? That's our money. Glasner State, non-glass citizens – you should be involved in this, as we have to set up surveillance cameras. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the Stronach team.]] Where's the money going? Where is it distributed? Who is thereby given particularly benevolently in the way in which you have been making client policy in recent years? Seventeenths: Harmonization of accounting. Why haven't we done this yet? Also there are some federal states across. This is unacceptable at all, Mr Minister, and you have already come a bit far – do not let your own party's princes stop at the last few feet! Eighth: clear rules for breakdowns. Of course, we need clear rules in the field of public dissemination. Why? – Mr Häupl is here the parade example, which once again conceals as much as he has debt in outsourced areas. Beate Meinl-Reisinger has shown this more often. It's insanity! That's where we need transparency. That's where we need a camera that looks, and it's permanent. [[the speaker keeps the surveillance camera up to date]] [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the Stronach team.]] We need a public statement from the state governments, a public statement from the Federal Government and not from the glass citizen. Not the extract of accounts from you, valued citizens, is simply supposed to go through the area without barriers and everyone should be able to see it, but the state should be transparent. [[Abg. Kogler: This is stupid!]] If it goes after me, we could abolish the round-up of these cameras in the ORF in the morning with folk music, and we make the round-up daily in the state governments. Where do they spend our money? You should watch that in a liveticker and live cameras. Tenth: mandatory disclosure of all liability. Here too, you have taken a step, but you are not yet at the end. Again, Mr. Schieder, it's your party with Michael Häupl, who goes across and says: Yeah, kick me down! I'll do what I want. I hope that the voters and voters will miss a correction in October. This attitude “I am, and the others are none of it,” we will not accept in Vienna. Why? – Because everyone, from the Upper Austrians, Steirern to the Vorarlbergers, for example, has special privileges in the pension sector. As long as we count that by 2042 the Viennans will retire from the protected area with 55 and earlier, all citizens of all the federal states have the claim that Mr. Häupl will disclose his liability. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the Stronach team.]] I'll stay with Mr. Häupl. Eleventh: Entry into force of a federal uniform speculation ban. Citizens have been banned from speculating in Swiss francs as a lesson from the financial crisis. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] – I’ll end up with that thought. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nice to meet you.]] This has been forbidden to citizens. Mr Pröll and Mr Häupl continue to speculate with Franken. That is the final example. It is obvious that the state is sovereign and infallible, and that the citizen is being trampled on step and step. That's why we say: Total reverse! The right to privacy, to family life is a fundamental right. We are free citizens of a free country, and we will demonstrate against these citizens' glasses wherever we can. [[Abg. Rädler: End!]] Therefore: Stop the surveillance State: Glass state instead of glass citizens!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e4082	Mr Schelling spoke on a point of view. Your speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e4104	Madam President. High house! Dear Mr. Klubobmann Strolz, I have known you for a very long time now, but that you are so to speak psychologically suffering from persecution, can only be justified by the fact that obviously conscious and targeted information is disseminated which does not correspond to reality. [[Abg. That's not how it is!]] [[Abg. Kickl: I can't do that!]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Where are we anyway?]] As far as the implementation of the tax reform is concerned, we are at the very end of the review. Therefore
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e4157	Mr Federal Minister, the excitement is therefore because, as a personal accusation, it is at the limits of the dignity of the House. [[Congratulations with FPÖ, Greens, NEOS and Team Stronach.]] [[Call the FPÖ: Order call!]] But now you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e4186	Then I take this accusation back and now try to explain what is wrong with the statements, namely, that they are wrong. We have decided on a tax reform in the Council of Ministers, which accounts for over €5 billion. In the context of this tax reform, it has also been decided that there are counter-financing measures. These counter-financing measures are part of the overall package to enable the input tax rate to fall from 36,5 to 25 percent. We have adopted additional offensive measures. With these offensive measures, it was quite clear that they are necessary to put the appropriate impetus on the labour market and the economy where we currently have the weaknesses. In addition to what is the content of the tax reform, a large housing offensive has also been launched, which enables us to revitalize the market. Part of this counter-financing – and this is part of your statement – comes from the fight against fraud, part comes from the funding, part comes from the savings in public administration. If you look at the anti-fraud package, it is said again and again that € 1.9 billion is not realistic. When you calculate this, the total tax revenue is 1.4 percent. That is why we think this is quite realistic. But to do this, you need instruments to realize that. As far as the general suspicion is concerned, it seems to me that this argument is being put forward, as if one were to argue: If we drive a car, we're obliged to have a car mark. There is a register in which you can look at who the driver is in each district administration authority. And now we're saying this is a general suspicion that anyone who has a car mark is automatically a traffic culprit. If your solution is to abolish the car marks and remove the radar guns from the police, we won't really move on. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Did anyone say that?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] We have therefore decided to address the issues of fraud and tax evasion both at international and national level. I'm on it, too. We have also set substantial impulses at European level in order to achieve this. It is clear that there is enormous damage due to tax and social fraud. And if we cannot continue to review this in the appropriate form and fail to deal with it, then this damage will be correspondingly large, both at international level – where only VAT fraud, which works in carousel fraud, accounts for more than €17 billion – as well as at national level. That is why we in the Federal Government have decided that it is an urgent prerequisite to protect the honest people from the unfair. But we also need instruments to do that. To the point banking secrecy and account register: We have entered into international commitments with the OECD. We fixed the OECD standard. We have committed ourselves to providing data in international data exchange from 2017 onwards. We have therefore decided to introduce a register of accounts, as is the case in many European countries. Of course, what is argued with Germany has nothing to do with Austria, because everything can be looked into in Germany – also in the labour market, in the social field. [[Abg. Stroll: They started as well as we do!]] All of this is not planned, and I would therefore already say: Let us stick to the facts that the draft law will then include! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] However, the question of this central account register also means that, in the future, this account register cannot be looked into until a debit procedure has been initiated. So it's completely wrong to say that we can look into the accounts. We can't even call the account register without starting a debit procedure. Then we save ourselves from sending several hundred inquiries to the banks to find out who has an account, because that is then to be seen in the account register. What's in the account register? - There's the name and the account number in it. There is no amount in it, there is no movement in it, and this must not be invoked until a tax procedure has been initiated. [[Abg. Stroll: It's okay! It's okay!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] Therefore, this information from the account register is possible in the context of audit procedures. And I'm just saying, It is only called upon if the person under review does not automatically declare that he has these accounts. That's always the first step. The second point concerns the question: How can you finally take a look at these accounts? There are strict directives on this, and it is only within the framework of this procedure. There can be no one's access to an account where there is no pre-disbursement procedure: neither in the account register nor in the account opening! This automation, which is being spread there, does not exist. We have therefore proposed that, in this view of the account, there is first a four-eye principle, second, both the account register and the understanding are fully documented, that it is only possible for the person concerned to have access to the account, and that the actual basis of assessment is essentially different from the previously known basis of assessment. So if someone says, I have misstated my church contribution of 200 €!, this is not an essential deviation – only to make it clear. In addition, we will provide for legal protection or a judicial body to verify compliance with the procedural principles laid down. [[Call to the Greens:Ex post or ex ante?]] This procedure is now planned and will be presented accordingly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Stroll: That means you're bringing in a law?]] - We don't have a law at all. We have a law in review, and after the review comes the final proposal. The review period ended on Friday last week, and when the results of the review are incorporated, we will assign and present this to the committees accordingly. That is the essence of such an assessment. That is why I was also surprised that before preparing what came out of the review, this topic was so articulated. We do not remove banking secrecy either, but we are only expanding today's possibilities that are already present in banking secrecy as exceptions. Most do not know that banking secrecy already has such exceptions. The collection of fingerprints and IP addresses was also addressed. This is also a story that is always articulated and presented as surveillance. This is the question: Can we act as an administration of arms equality, or can we not? It is about the fact that this can only be reduced – both the IP address and fingerprints – when it comes to clarifying financial errors with a reduction of more than €33 000. I do not expect anyone to commit a private offence of €33,000, for example in the area of customs. The fingerprints are also not stored, but are only taken for proof assurance, and are then deleted again. Sustainable storage is not permitted. It doesn't provide for the law either. [[Abg. Stroll: This is not the task of finance!]] By the way, we are also the customs administration, and the customs administration is very likely to be able to determine, in the case of smuggling, whether the person who is caught has smuggled the whole thing or not, because, as a rule, the statement of protection is: It wasn't me who put me in the bag! [[Abg. Stroll: Then specify that accordingly!]] By the way, we can also now retrieve mobile phone data in the course of a procedure, but not the IP address. Anyone who knows where the technical progress is will understand this expansion very quickly. As for the transparency database, I share the opinion: There is the transparency database. The covenant has filled them from themselves; the data can be retrieved. You'll be called too. From the countries up to now, only the services offered in the transparency database are inside, but not the funding funds. Therefore, a few weeks ago, I wrote a letter to the national financial experts asking for a notice, until when the countries will also fill this already fixed transparency database accordingly. With regard to the questions of the rules on the exclusions, I can point out from the Federal's point of view that: We have clear rules, and these rules are also 100% respected. The implementation of exclusions is subject to a federal legislation in each individual case, and each department can present and present such federal legislation in its scope of action. In any event, within the Federal Ministry of Finance and within our scope of competence, the relevant legal framework conditions, including in particular budgetary and social provisions, are taken into account in the given event. There are clear rules also in relation to participation management. Here, the Federal Government's federal Public Corporate Governance Code, decided in October 2012, is of particular importance, and it is also 100% respected. In connection with the liabilities you have quoted, I would like to clarify the following: In principle, any liability shall be recorded in each financial statements, including in a national accounts statement. What the Court of Auditors criticizes – and I can understand that – is the definition of the so-called limits of liability. However, the list of liability is complete. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stroll.]] There are clear legal regulations in connection with the liability of the federal government. This is regulated in § 82 of the Federal Budget Act. Liabilities of the Federal Government can only be assumed on the basis of a special legal authorisation. This legal authorisation must be submitted in each case. The Bundesfinanzgesetz has special special legal provisions to comply with: Export Promotion Act, Financial Market Stabilisation Act, SME Promotion Act and so on. This must be done according to the legal basis. The Federal Liability Law regulates up to what amount of the Federal Government can assume liability. Therefore, from the point of view of the federal government, it is very likely that we are transparent about what liability we assume. And what liability we assume, we also report regularly in the committees. We report this in the I have now said what the Federation is doing, because you are talking about a state surveillance, and that is what the Federation belongs to, at least according to my constitutional understanding. [[Abg. Strolz: The countries, Minister!]] [[Abg. Stroll: Hypo has happened at the country level!]] The liability we are documenting has been completely reported to Parliament either in the committees or in the federal accounts, and there are also issues related to this in the committees. As regards the harmonisation of accounting, we have progressed so far that in the future the federal states will work with double accounting and accounting in the sense of a modern and transparent accounting system – we are with the federal states, Matthias. [[in the direction of the Abg. Stroll]] The entry into force of a federal ban on speculation and the transparent financial compensation law have already been addressed. As for the corresponding arrangements, I can report that we have already set up the consultation mechanism in order to establish the harmonisation of budgetary law. You have rightly said that some federal states have concerns about this. The Court of Auditors and the Ministry of Finance are aware of this and assumes that on 20 July the Court of Auditors will be able to take a decision. This consultation mechanism can be terminated on June and the regulation has been adopted, in terms of its form and structure. I have already agreed with the countries, not least on the suggestion made by Mr Rossmann, that the remaining points will be negotiated without delay in order to present this in the framework of an Article 15a agreement. In order to return to the countries, the rules of liability have indeed been criticised by the Court of Auditors, and I can do much about this criticism. That is why I have already been talking to the countries about how we can bring about improvements here – and that is to say, significant improvements to the limits of liability. We therefore agreed, in accordance with the criticism expressed by the Court of Auditors, before the end of the examination with the countries, that such changes should be made. These discussions have already begun at official level so that we can see which legal bases are necessary. What the speculation bans do, I'm right there. Most countries have decided to ban speculation. At the time we did not succeed in making a federal uniform speculation ban. I can support this, from my point of view. The Federation has done a lot of things there too. If you look at what very, very narrow guidelines the Federal Finance Agency is funding, then you can see that this is actually exemplary. That is why we have no problems with foreign currencies, for example. I believe, however, that we must take another approach and take it. The question is how to handle this, because it is usually necessary to assume that it is in the constitutional order. They are financed by all bodies and not just by one of the entities. As far as the financial compensatory negotiations are concerned, I would like to draw your attention once again to how we have put them up. I would like to draw attention to the fact that I am willing to report regularly on progress. We will convene a political round in June to discuss the issues that have now been prepared, and then to start negotiations quickly in the second half of the year. However, I ask for understanding that successful negotiation processes also need something like a trust base. I think it's right that we have these talks with the countries. As I said, I would like to be ready to tell you again and again where things stand. But I don't think it's appropriate for us to discredit this on a broad scale now. This is a procedure between the Federal Government and the Länder, and the content of how we want to set up this financial compensation has been reported several times here in the House. On the other questions you have raised, Mr Klubobmann Strolz, I cannot say too much, that is not in my place of business: neither the intelligence services nor other things. This has also been presented in the application accordingly. In the context of the legislative process of other materials, the relevant ministers can then take a position on this matter. It is therefore clear from my view that the draft law, which we are going to bring to Parliament, excludes the fact that what is being said here again and again is that it is automatic, that it is arbitrary, that it is so to speak, to be sniffed. And that is why we have also proposed that we set up these test procedures as I described earlier. It is not appropriate to put things in the foreground that are still in the river and in consultation, although they are not yet finally available. The final draft will be made available to Parliament. I don't know if everyone is aware of how such a process works. We have put in place a draft based on a Council of Ministers presentation. We have waited for the review and note that there have been comments in the review. The essence of the legislative process is that, after the review phase, we are discussing the critical points, in any case, change the submissions and then submit them to Parliament for decision-making. So I apologize again for the personal words. I know you, Mr. Klubobmann Strolz, long enough and know that you are a very discreet and committed person; a little bit with a urge to Martin Luther – so with the theses in St. Pölten and so and now with the surveillance cameras. I hope we can come back to an objective basis and lead here a reasonable discussion of this request. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e4419	We are going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes, with each club having a total speaking time of 25 minutes. Mrs. Club Chairman Dietrich is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e4447	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that the issue of the removal of banking secrecy is really a matter for every individual shows that this special meeting was supported by three clubs: the Stronach team, the NEOS and two MPs from the ÖVP. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. That's good!]] If I look at my colleague Mr Vetter, I understand how we have jointly given a press conference and have been vehemently opposed to the removal of banking secrecy. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and FPÖ.]] Dear Georg Vetter, I can only hope that you spend this energy to finally make the ÖVP reason! Matthias Strolz has already raised a number of points; I would like to focus on the opening of the account without a judicial decision. How does the situation show up? – From our point of view, the state wants one, it wants to create the glass citizen. [[The speaker keeps a transparent pig in height.]] That is, all the assets that a person has diligently collected in the course of his life, he wants to take a close look at. [[Abg. Pilz: The citizen is not a pig!]] Why does he want that? Why does he want the glass citizen? Why does he want the assets? – So that he can then introduce the asset tax if the money is not enough, and so that he may be able to make another cut in the account and make money for himself. We are completely different. In fact, when it comes to really clarifying scandals in the near-state, in the political area, in the area of hypo, if we want information, how it can happen that more than €20 billion disappears in the sand, the state is doing so. [[The speaker shall hold a corresponding panel.]] Then nothing is shown, then everything is hidden and blackened. Ladies and gentlemen! We want the glass state and not the glass citizens! [[Congratulations with the Stronach team as well as representatives of FPÖ and NEOS.]] For us, it is absolutely unacceptable that every individual citizen should be suspected of fraud and that the state, as has been said, can regulate everything in the dark. Under the cover of the tax audit or fraud control, all accounts are then taken into account, each under general suspicion and the bank secret is lifted. Minister, fraud must definitely be combated, but fraud should be fought where it arises. If you read the “Kronen-Zeitung” last weekend, you can read that Ikea pays taxes at € 2 billion in profit only in the Promille area. To that end, I say: These fraud and tax havens are finally to be lifted! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] You too, Mr Minister, will probably have some experience at the furniture house Lutz from your time, how to bring the money out of Austria tax-free. And now to criminalise the citizens, I absolutely do not think that is all right. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not just the Stronach team and it's not just the NEOS that are against these measures. There are also a number of others that I can now quote. For example, in the opinion of the Federal Chancellor's Office's Constitutional Service, it says that data protection registers are very worrying. Opening data in the account register without knowledge of the bank and the customer is absolutely not in order and is criticized. Land governments such as the Lower Austrian state government are also opposed to this procedure. The Lower Austrian Government believes that this would not be in line with the principle of proportionality and must be considered for social policy reasons. It is not all right to view all citizens and entrepreneurs as potential tax evaders in the sense of a general suspicion. The Vorarlberg government is also concerned. The Government of Tyrol is asking for “voluntary and disproportionate” insights. The Innsbruck University Professor Margarethe Flora also warns of the state-of-the-art administration of the account. Ladies and gentlemen, you should, yes, think about what you are doing, because: They're criminalizing the citizens! This path cannot be supported, and this path is easy to correct again. [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Stroll.]] I'm telling you, too. If the ÖVP had handshake quality, we would save ourselves today's session. Head of State or perhaps head of state – you don't know how the best second in the country will position in the future – has threatened with a veto against the abolition of banking secrecy, and he has also said that his Styrian ÖVP colleagues will vote against it. Mr Lopatka, I am already curious about how the ÖVP's speech looks. Other experts from ÖVP and SPÖ, so-called Granden, have always expressed their support for maintaining banking secrecy. I'll tell you: The step you're taking now is a taboo break! I'm just quoting the memory, because time is going on so fast and you want to forget something like this: Viktor Klima has meant: It is because we want to maintain the traditional, small Austrian savings book, to which Austrians have confidence, in the form. [[Abg. Arbitrators: That's it, the savings book!]] We have promised, and we will keep it. – We will remind you of this every time! [[Abg. Wenninger: There you were in the FPÖ back then!]] Ladies and gentlemen, Michael Spindelegger, too, has been committed to the protection of privacy and privacy, and he has said: It's got to stay! Who can give political confidence if, in the short term, everything that has been promised changes after the election? I would like to say to the Greens: If you speak of the “sorry state”, it hurts me personally, for I know so many people who work hard, so many entrepreneurs who do not know how to cover payments at the end of the month. And to call all the flat-rate villains, that is absolutely unfair in my opinion. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] In Austria, there is a right to privacy protection. It is a political value that the state can and must only intervene in the privacy of the citizen under precisely regulated conditions. This applies to professional secrets, data protection, storage of stock data, banking secrecy. We do not want officials to go out and enter Voyeure in the monetary bedrooms of the citizens. And for us, the way for Germany to go is to reject such bodies as the financial authority, the prosecutor's office, the police, customs, social assistance, promotions, housing promotion, training, maintenance, execution and so on into the accounts of private citizens. The Austrian banks are refinancing their loans to the economy through savings deposits, and if you are now venturing banking secrecy or bank secrecy at the end, that means that money will flow out that a capital flight to Asia, possibly rising real estate prices, rising precious metal prices and much more will be the consequences of your action. We think of it as the former SPÖ Finance Minister Hannes Androsch. Perhaps you remember that yet, no idea, because obviously you are easily forgotten in the SPÖ. He meant: Whoever sees the wind of distrust will reap the storm of loss of confidence. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e4600	Mr Klubobmann Mag is next spoken. Arbitrator. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e4621	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! In the speech by Mr Strolz, which was mainly carried in the first part by persecution stories, I was not sure whether this is still the clubman of the liberal club of NEOS or whether this was an application speech for the freed place of Dr. Franz in the Stronach team, because it was quite unclear what you wanted to do. In any case, I couldn't recognize NEOS or the New at all, rather the rather old-fatherly. The decisive thing is: If you find that you're mubbed there and what else I know everything has been done by banks or who else, it's easiest to show it and bring it to the public. If it's happened, then it's of course a sourry that happened there. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Stroll: How do you prove “accidents ”?]] The decisive thing we are discussing today is what Mr Dietrich has also mentioned, namely: How can we tackle this international development, that larger and larger companies are paying less and less taxes, internationally and nationally in such a way that their fair share remains for the state as well? [[Abg. Stroll: I'm in there!]] The economist Gabriel Zucmann calculated in his book “Taxoases” that € 130 billion were spent on black money accounts in 2013. And that's why the question is: What to do in this context? And there is not only the great world you are waiting for, but there is also Austria as part of this great world. And in the OECD, in the merger of the industrialized countries, it is also agreed that international tax evasion is more advocating the fight. One of the measures is the automatic exchange of information, as it will now be presented. Second point: The Federal Government has agreed to make a tax reform for a number of reasons, namely: to stimulate the economy by reducing the entry tax rate, by increasing the amount of money in the stock exchange, to carry out a relief of the working people in our country, but also to make a step forward. And tax fairness is not only the relief of workers, but also the fact that those who have to pay taxes and now put their money past the Fiscus on black money accounts are caught in the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We are not talking about small sums, we are talking about €700 million in tax revenue that are possible in the Austrian context. We also agree, I believe, that, in the meantime, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Switzerland and Austria are states that have to say goodbye to the form of banking secrecy, which, in fact, protects the great outreachers, while the small people are de facto not affected by these measures either positively or negatively. This is important to me to stress, because every tax evasioner who withdraws a lot of money puts the black money not under the upholstery, but on an account. Therefore, it is important to have an account register to see who has any accounts at all, and secondly, to give the financial also the possibility, in the course of an audit, to examine it faster, with sufficient legal control, subsequent control, possibility of complaint and documentation, but nevertheless, if serious suspicions exist, to see if this person or that company has taxed everything. This is not an intervention into privacy, quite the contrary: It is a more state and more funding and justice! This is what I also expect from a federal government that we do not see individual gaps in the system taking advantage of them in such a way that they manage the money, but that we look and see that everyone makes their fair contribution, just as every employee has to do automatically. I am sorry that Team Stronach and NEOS are starting to make the tax evasions the wall here, with dubious arguments. Maybe you'll go back into the woods again and think about whether it would be better to get the tax evasioners anyway.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e4693	Mr Klubobmann Dr. Lopatka is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e4715	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister and Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! We certainly do not let anyone misrepresent this 5-billion-€ tax reform, even at today's special meeting, Klubobmann Strolz. I'm not sure I'll tell you! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Because this is a effort by the Federal Government to relieve it. [[Abg. Kickl: There you need to talk to your two Neo-Deputies!]] [[Abg. Strolz: It is your head of state!]] Yeah, we're in the review. You can believe that I am at least as in conversation with our national leaders as you are, and I know very well that it is important to listen to our national leaders in the review, in order to reach the best possible solution in this bill. That is why what Minister of Finance Schelling has said, namely: Combating fraud: Yes, but at the same time a yes to very clear rule of law, under which this fight against fraud takes place. However, they want to make this fight against fraud more difficult. Absolutely! They have come to the close of blackwork today, when they have spoken of the cleaner and, and, and, and have spoken, of any services you may use that might then come to the public. If you listen carefully to what you said – and also to what is happening with the club woman from the Stronach team – you have to watch who you want to protect. We say: The more those who have to pay taxes actually pay their taxes, the less the individual has to pay taxes! – This is our access! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Stroll: That's absurd! I'm referring to Wallner and Platter!]] And I also say one very clear and clear to you, because Clubobfrau Dietrich has today spoken to Mr Vetter: We promise to all Austrians, and of course I have also promised our new club member Vetter: With us, there will be no wealth taxes! So calm down! No property taxes with the ÖVP! This has been done, and this is true in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: And what about the hidden inheritance tax?]] Ladies and gentlemen! What we are talking about in this tax reform – and that is not to say: If the entrance tax rate is reduced to 25 percent if each taxpayer/any taxpayer on average has less to pay by 1 000 € if the child allowance is doubled if there is a site security package in a range of 200 million €, then this tax reform has definitely earned the name of a major tax reform. That is what we want to focus on, and we are not going to let you talk about fraud. The second point: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Strolz! In 2011 you read in your book “Why We Don’t Trust Politicians: “ Means: Less energy goes into content work. Not “What is good for our society, for mankind?” is the key question, but: What's the headline? What do we put on the cover? - Just after that, go ahead! That's what you criticized at the time! Right after that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Because what's good for people? – The discharge! But you didn't even say a word about that – not even a word! On Saturday, a commentator in the "Tyrol daily" actually predicted reporting on your speech today. It was held in the "Tyrol daily" by a Mr. Alois Schöpf on Saturday under the title "NEOS are at the end": ‘Unfortunately, NEOS are no longer as an empty mecker party.’ That's exactly what you've done again today: tasted well! [[Abg. New builder: Who is the Lord Alois Schöpf?]] That should make you think. I don't know the creature, but maybe you know him, he's a commentator from the "Tyrol daily". I don't know, but the "Tyrol daily" should know you too. [[Abg. Kickl: Is this the ÖVP party central organ?]] If you don't know her, I'd like to give you a copy of the last Saturday for reading. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, for the Austrian People's Party – and there we do not need a call from anyone – values such as freedom, privacy and data protection are irreplaceable fundamental values of our society. In recent months we have had an intensive discussion process in the party, the so-called evolution process, and the result of this renewal process in the party is our new party program. [[Abg. Kickl: He's sitting back there!]] And that's exactly what's held there: Data protection, privacy, commitment to freedom. These are indispensable values for us, and they are also firmly anchored in our party program. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] As the Austrian People's Party we know that we need service providers who do their daily work, who pay their taxes and ensure that we can maintain this social state with the health system we have with the pension system that we have, with all the other government systems that are financed by transfers. We can only adhere to these standards if these performance carriers are also relieved. This is very important for us in this tax reform, and we have succeeded. We also want to protect the fair people who pay their taxes from the unreasonable. That's what I'm telling you! The register of accounts – it has already been carried out by the Minister of Finance – is a means of ensuring greater justice here. This is also a means of combating money laundering and also the fight against international terrorism in the majority of European states. But it is not a means of looking at any account to know about account sales and accounts. Not at all! [[Abg. Strache: Always “Wiglwagl! ” No clear line!]] [[Abg. Stroll: Judgment: Yes or no?]] And I'll tell you: What you have mentioned, the “glass citizen, ” will not exist with us. We want a good balance between the protection of privacy and the fight against tax fraud. [[Abg. Stroll: Yes or no?]] Twice Yes: Yes to protect privacy, but also to protect against tax fraud! That is in the sense of the majority. And that is the very, very large majority of the Austrians. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In the interests of honest taxpayers, of course, we will have to strengthen the fight against tax fraud, but I will tell you again: This federal government will hopefully come to a good solution here – we need the support of an opposition party – together with the Greens. After the discussions we have held this morning, I am very confident, since, of course, in the interests of the Austrians, we also need to seek the compromise as government parties. And that data protection is not irrelevant to the Greens, should also know NEOS.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e4939	The next item is Mr Klubobmann Strache. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e4960	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I don't know anymore after the clubman Lopatka's speech. There's the gigl and the gogl, and everyone in the ÖVP says something else. You represent this position here today, Mr Schützenhofer, your party observer in Styria, says something completely different, namely that it must not come. [[Abg. New builder: A certain Mr. Amon too!]] So it seems that it is precisely this concept of non-rectified politics to promise again and again before elections something which one does not hold after the election. That's exactly a continuity of your policy. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of NEOS and Team Stronach.]] And if today rightly a special meeting on “Stop the surveillance state: Gläsner State instead of glass citizens” was called up, so I am grateful for it, as we have also asked from the beginning – even in interviews – that we need a glass state, but we do not want to go to a glass citizen and not to the control state à la George Orwell. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is an important principle! We have therefore also announced a popular desire to do so, as it is necessary to build up pressure here. I am so pleased that this has also become possible with the support of the opposition parties today, and of course Klubobmann Strolz is right if he has shown today quite legitimately a moral image of red and black, which we experience with mobbing and stalking at the authority level, at the local level and at the municipal level against dissidents. This is not a mockery or persecution of Mr. Klubobmann Strolz, no, it is a brutal reality in this country that we have to stop together! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of NEOS and Team Stronach.]] There needs to be a break-up of these structures, which today represent something so negative. And I say quite consciously: What are we experiencing? We are experiencing a development in which a government is in office and dignity, which, after the data storage of stocks has been withdrawn, wants to reintroduce it again. That means control where it goes, control state systems where it goes. Stock data storage is one of the areas you want to reintroduce project. We have a trend towards totalitarian control-state mechanisms at different levels. We have the abuse when it comes to data, we have illegal hearings from intelligence services with the NSA scandal, we have developments that you want to store this data of course, so that you have to fear again, that all goes one by one to the various intelligence services or at least to the NSA. We have illegal interception, illegal storage up to the registry obligation, which we have heard today in the debate with which all entrepreneurs are immediately suspected of being fraud. I congratulate you on this great process! They have really chosen the best examples with Greece and Italy, where the registration bank obligation is of no use at all, but is practised there for years. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ as well as with representatives of the Stronach team.]] So really “great”, as you also call examples that clearly fail in these areas. But the main thing that entrepreneurs suspect! You go here and order from above by force order the total ban on smoking! The citizen should not have a free choice in his freedom, and the gastronomy should not decide what to do in his inn at all. These are precisely these patterns in different areas, such as the state takes into account things that it does not have to do with, to the abolition of banking secrecy, which is a good Austrian tradition and where different representatives of social democracy and the Austrian People's Party have repeatedly promised to do the first reluctance, it will not come to an end, it concerns only non-Austrian citizens. [[recent appeal to the FPÖ as well as to representatives of the Stronach team]] And again, you see that you fall down and promise things you don't keep. This is, of course, the next step towards the abolition of good Austrian banking secrecy, and without a judicial decision, you are actually putting the rule of law out of force. And you may also get yourself, as has been so often, the Greens as a supporter for such a thing after the motto on board: After that, we're gonna put some body in place. But the rule of law is put out of effect. There will have to be precise consideration of how citizens' rights are dealt with, how data protection rights are dealt with. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ as well as with representatives of the Stronach team.]] Finally, they want to give the authorities the insight into all private accounts. They say: We want to catch the big tax evaders, we want to catch the billionaires who move their money! Faith You really don't move their money in the direction of Caribbean, Cayman Islands or where?- Oh, my God! They won't catch you! But you are concerned about the small citizens, who then look at the private accounts, how it is going and what is going on in Germany, for example, when you lose your job as an employee there. I say this in the direction of social democracy, as you said today, it is about the protection of the workers. After good night, like you let down the workers! In Germany we see it Hartz IV has been introduced, any authority can look at the private accounts of the unemployed citizens without judicial notice, and if there are savings that it has not stolen, but has earned itself through wages and hard work, and for which it has paid taxes, then it must spend its savings before he is entitled to unemployment benefit. [[Abg. Schieder: We are talking about Austria!]] That is social, but exactly in this direction, it is obvious to you that once again the protection and rights of citizens and workers are under foot. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ as well as with representatives of the Stronach team.]] That is exactly what we are talking about, and this is a development that we are rightly warning against, since we are already discussing. The next step in the European Union is the abolition of cash. A few years ago, you laughed when you said there were really a few who were planning it. It is still said that these are the world conspiracy theorists who claim this. Today, the European Union is officially discussing the abolition of cash. Some countries, such as Italy, but also in northern Europe, have already set limits on the issue of cash and set the first steps in this direction. This is a disaster when it comes to the fact that civil rights should fall in turn, and the state, if the assets are only more at the bank, will best only have to decide on its taxes which are deducted there, and the citizen has no protection at all by securing his savings somewhere. That is to say, these are all developments towards a state that wants to reflect, monitor, control and keep citizens under control. There you still laugh, if some even think about it, after abolishing the cash, perhaps even implanting a chip for every person, so that we no longer need passports and credit cards so that we have total control and know when who is rising and where he is moving. In the future, you pay with the chip at the cash desk and always have all your ID cards with it. Then it's said: He has nothing to fear because the great brother is guarding you, and if he does nothing bad, he has nothing to fear. After good night! These are precisely these unreasonable reasons, developments and lines of discussion that must not take place at all. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ as well as with representatives of the Stronach team.]] This is about freedom, citizens' rights, self-determination rights against a control system that we have, fortunately, overcome in history. But you're taking us back there! That's exactly what citizens don't need and don't want. What we need – and this is perfectly right – is the glass state, that everything that is financed by public taxpayers has, of course, glass and transparent to be and needs to be made public. But not the way you act in the area then with file blackouts to cover everything up and hide everything to actually protect the real perpetrators of this bank crime. This is exactly the wrong way for the citizens to be horrified and also to turn away with grayery. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ as well as with representatives of the Stronach team.]] Yes, this is a direction in which it is of course important to demand honesty in the debate. Putting the rule of law out of force, especially in such sensitive areas, and then pushing any authorities in between is a sweet game with our rights, but certainly not what a rule of law is worthy of. That is why there will, of course, be particular attention here to how the Greens deal with it. Are they once again willing to be available as a low-priced majority for red-black, or are they really fighting for the rule of law and civil rights, for the freedom of citizens and data protection? Or, all this is always just such a presupposed story, which you then, depending on what it looks like strategicly, change and adapt a little and then place such pseudo-needs: Well, in the future, we don't need any judges to notify us, because we're going to make any intermediate authority that's under the control of the respective Minister of Justice or Minister of Finance. That would not be an honest deal with it! Then you would have lost your virginity in all cases. I say that if, in addition, one goes from the Minister of Finance and wants to have fingerprints to solve financial crimes in the future, it is especially absurd. Obviously, one needs some argument, some reason that one now still ensures the fingerprints next to the passport, so that then the intelligence services and anyone else have documented that. Otherwise, you can't justify that. It's just going towards total control, and that's what we're refusing to do. There we will fight vehemently for the interests of the citizens, and there will also be decisive resistance from our side. And believe me, even the majority of citizens see that as it is. In recent weeks I have just experienced from former Social Democrats and also supporters and voters of the ÖVP that they are horrified that you have developed in this direction and have thrown all your principles overboard.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e5095	The next item is Mrs Klubobfrau Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e5116	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Honourable Members and Love See you here and at home! I can assure you of one thing, Mr Klubobmann Strache: To want to establish the business model of FPÖ – Austria as a location for Russian or Ukrainian black money accounts – as an economic model, that is certainly not our model. [[He-Rufe at the FPÖ.]] [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I've always missed you when it came to it. You have discussed this with me openly. You said it was a good example of how Switzerland does it. [[Subsequent calls to the FPÖ.]] Why can't you hide it here in Austria too? So I tell you, if you understand international solidarity in this way, then you stand by yourself with this solidarity. That only once before. But I would also like to come to the other points. [[Abg. Darmann: Is that all you have? That's embarrassing!]] We were originally very surprised that this joint initiative, called “Stop the State of Monitoring” by Team Stronach and NEOS, was in place, because both parties actually represented different positions on a very central issue. If you remember, one of the biggest conflicts in recent years regarding data protection, the stock data storage has been, inadequate mass surveillance of citizens, collecting data without any reason. The Stronach team has always voted in favour of the NEOS, as far as I believe, always against it. We have rightly opposed it with all our means. We have, together with the AKAstock, made a collective complaint, we have also fought this at the Constitutional Court, and we have also won. Thank you once again for the cooperation to the AKA Stock that this has succeeded. The project has really been one of the most controversial projects at European level. Now you have a cooperation here and put forward a motion for a resolution which we have already wondered very much about. I mean, you as NEOS could have brought in the special session alone. But a cooperation with the Stronach team and this excitement do not justify from our point of view requesting the collection of fingerprints, does not justify requesting the collection of IP addresses, nor is it for requesting the storage of stock data with parliamentary control. That is what the request contains. I'd like to read this again. It's inside here: “The National Council wants to decide: no overwhelming authorisation to collect fingerprints and IP addresses in the Financial Criminal Act”. [[Abg. Strache: At the pass, they do!]] I'm telling you, I don't just want any exaggerating, I don't want any authorization to collect fingerprints and IP addresses at all. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I'm going on; I just have to apologize, I'm a little cooled. [[Abg. Stefan: For a week or since when?]] I'm going on. They “do not want to introduce a systematic, inadequate, personal data storage without parliamentary control”. In other words, you are in favour of introducing a systematic, inadmissible, personal data storage with parliamentary control. That's right there, excuse me! We are also opposed to this form of monitoring with parliamentary control. There can be no question at all. This is the core of data storage. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I have read the compromise that you somehow had to stick to a common request. But you can't accept it responsibly here in any way. I can't! Now at the heart of the matter: What I have really missed in your last few years is a much clearer cry when it comes to international tax fraud, in which Austria is really on a black list. And, Mr Dietrich, this is not about the concept of villain, but as far as international tax fraud is concerned, Austria, Luxembourg, Liechtenstein and a few Canary Islands and other notary dream islands were really the number one with banking secrecy. And you don't see this and you don't put forward reasonable proposals here, how you can fight it! The Greek billions in Switzerland are estimated at over €100 billion. This money of tax evasion could be very urgent for the Greek population, which could be the need for schools there, kindergartens, universities and the economy. Two years ago, that was the last EU Commission, the tax Commissioner has clearly demonstrated with a dramatic number that the 28 EU countries are losing more than €1,000 billion by tax evasion, tax fraud, money laundering and cetera. But something needs to be done. That is why, in your excitement, I miss a bit of a serious commitment to how to solve this big problem, because it is really the great ones who make it. If you calculate this in Austria, it is still at least €3 billion that goes up in these 1,000 billion. Proposals, please! We'll do it! At least we're negotiating now. We Greens have always clarified one thing: Of course, there must be a legal protection which is equivalent to criminal proceedings. That means judicial control from my point of view. We also presented a model. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: You didn't say that!]] You can now believe what you want. There's no reason for you, I think, not to hit our side now. [[Abg. New builder: There they would be pretty stupid!]] They could co-negotiate immediately and find good solutions when it comes to it. These are very complex legal issues. It is about the question of not hanging the procedure too high and not too deep. You have to be very careful to deal with this, you all know, because otherwise it will not catch the one that we are actually concerned with again, and we do not want to follow a single Raika account for two years – not only about tax evasion, but also about other criminal charges. I don't want to do that in the future. The direction of impact here is very, very clear, and I do not understand why you do not stand on the side of those for whom we really need this money. Look at the budget situation, € 350 million is missing in the educational budget. Kindergartenpflege – The free kindergarten year is still not negotiated. [[Abg. Deimek: You can also save!]] Of course, one can also save, of course, but why should I nevertheless support tax fraud in a large way by enabling them to dive into Austrian banking secrecy here? It is said that 10 billion € from Switzerland alone were returned to the Austrian banking secret. It's obvious that you can't want that unless you really want to be the patron of tax fraud. That is no different explanation. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] My voice is not really good today. [[Call the FPÖ:The content neither!]] I would like to make one last point. What does banking secrecy mean? At the moment, we do not even have the opportunity to find out who has such a lot of accounts, and that is – even for the justice of the rest – an unbearable state to write to each bank whether someone has accounts. This has this turnaround, and that really can only be done by those who have a lot of money and who also have a lot of support in hiding their money. Or do you know the famous nurses from the Styrian election campaign, the five tax counsellors, one of them in Liechtenstein, one in Vienna and one in Luxembourg, employed to cover taxes? Not me! I think that's the point of impact.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e5279	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Meinl-Risinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e5301	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear viewers! I congratulate Mrs. Klubobfrau Glavischnig for finding a difference between the Stronach and the NEOS team. We were unconditionally here in this House in countless requests against data storage of stocks, and of course we are further on. In these angular movements, which you have obviously tried to get out of the defensive today, offensively confuse with aggression. [[Abg. Pilz: (showing on the request) That's in there! These are lazy compromises!]] The second thing is, nobody, but no one at NEOS protects tax evasion! Nobody! But what this is all about, Mrs. Klubobfrau and very much respected government parties, is the Imbalance you bring here. They are making a tax reform – if you say “price reform” – Mr Klubobmann is speaking badly, and the Minister of Finance has finally said in a round of economic managers that it is actually just a collective reform – which is almost exclusively borne by citizens and, above all, by entrepreneurs. [[Abg. Strache: Tax increases are these!]] There is nothing on the expenditure side that you can save on, and first of all the citizens are suspected of being generalized. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] Mrs. Glawischnig, please talk to small stands at the Meiselmarkt or at annual markets, as the registers find! [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: I am not for that!]] And then tell me if that's really where you say: Well, we take workers and officials out of everything, of course, but with entrepreneurs, we look more closely at that. [[Abg. Steinhauser: This is a completely different topic!]] You differ according to your own morals and have no attitude on this question, and that is what is outrageous to me. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] I would like to talk about this Imbalance today, because this Imbalance is quite obvious. Imagine, you're in a relationship with a person, and this partner starts to monitor your phone at once, to see when and where you stay, what you spend your money where you spend your money, with whom you meet, et cetera. You will probably feel unwell and you may go to him and say, so please, excuse me, I want a little freedom too. Why do you control me like that? And imagine, your partner says yes, who has nothing to hide has nothing to fear. Then how do you feel? This is a general suspicion which is expressed here, and exactly under this general suspicion you are putting the citizens of this country. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] And now we're looking at the other side. Imagine going to the partner and saying: Well, then I'd like to know where you spent your money, who you've been calling, which emails you've written, and so on. And then the partner says: This is not possible because the confidentiality is, as far as my person is concerned, contractually anchored on the basis of our contractual relationship. [[Abg. Wenninger: This is the banal silence!]] That's the silence of office, quite right. Or the partner says, of course, what we often hear, if we in Parliament, as an extended arm of citizens, make inquiries to ministries, find out or make these data available, which would be an excessive administrative burden. That is the current situation. You want the data of the citizens, but don't give your data in any way, and that's an imbalance. [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] [[Abg. That's not an effort big enough!]] The international Right to Information Rating assesses citizens' access to information. Do you know where Austria is in this rating? In the last place, depended on states like Sierra Leone, El Salvador or Liberia. What I am concerned with is the following: If you want to open the accounts without a judicial decision, if you plan to store stock data when you plan to take fingerprints, if you plan further cuts – moreover, I also remember eCall, an arrow transmitter that will be installed in all cars throughout Europe from 2018 – if you want these transparent, glass citizens, then first of all you have to negotiate with us, because we do not want to do so, and second, you first have to provide your data, and without any problem. Mr Finanzminister, you have rightly said that the Court of Auditors' report has said this with the limits of liability, but we also know from the Court of Auditors' report that the methods of calculation are different. That means we have no transparency here. We have no transparency when it comes to debt from distributed areas or local authorities. As long as we don't have this transparency, you can't have our data! I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Of course, we agree with the green request, just as we will now and in the future continue to make applications, because we certainly do not want to give an agreement to storage of data in stock at any time. But what it is about me here is to say again: For us this is a question of attitude. Mr Klubobmann Arbitrator has said that this is not an intervention into privacy, I think he has, then even said, it is the opposite. This is, of course, an intervention in privacy! The question of such interference in fundamental rights is always the question of proportionality, and from our point of view it is not proportionate here. This is a basic attitude that we have and that we will not leave if it perhaps fits us into our own morals. And that's the appeal to the greens. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e5494	The motion for a resolution just mentioned is properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e5561	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Nachbaur. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e5582	Madam President. Dear representatives of the government! High house! Dear taxpayers! Dear account holders and savings account holders! The EU is in a huge debt crisis and Austria is the same. However, the logical political consequences of this debt crisis are not, as one meant, debt reduction, fiscal consolidation or the return to the market economy – that would be a good approach – no, it is about enabling endless money pressure and creating the glass people. It's just about the politicians: By what method can you best turn this huge debt mountain and all open invoices onto the taxpayers? The household is and remains in the mind, so the citizen should just keep the wallet open or the account best. And how much remains after payment of all record expenses and record taxes, this is probably the case now, because obviously the government cannot trust the citizens. Dear government representatives, that sounds like the last of the guns. With the abolition of banking secrecy, citizens are taken the last privacy. The recording of all company accounts and private accounts in a register and insight without a judicial decision, that is simply and decisively unreasonable! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Call the FPÖ:Right!]] This is not about combating terrorism and money laundering, because we have already heard: In Germany, there has been an account register since 2005, and the German supervisory figures show that only 4 percent of nearly 300,000 account surveys are used for the purpose of combating terrorism and money laundering. Everything else is pure pruning in the control act without judicial control. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and FPÖ as well as the Abg. Stroll.]] [[Call the FPÖ:Right!]] It is also interesting that the customers concerned are not even informed about the query. In addition to legal ambiguities, what is happening to the Austrian legislative text, whether this is perhaps too vague or whether it is contrary to the principle of legality: It is simply a worldly border, it is a social taboo that is being broken there. [[Call the FPÖ:Right!]] In this context, I would like to quote former ÖVP national councillor Michael Ikrath. He said: “The targeted attack on banking secrecy is an expression of the deep distrust of politics and further parts of society against financial independence, asset formation and material success of service providers.” [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and FPÖ as well as the Abg. Stroll.]] [[Abg. Strache: That's absolutely right!]] The Socialists in all parties play here on the piano of envy rather than on the performance of the citizens. Speaking of Socialists, I also like to quote Hannes Androsch. He also strongly criticises the abolition of banking secrecy. He says: “This is how we end up in a state of surveillance, intimidation and abuse.” Dear ÖVP, dear SPÖ! [[Congratulations with Team Stronach, FPÖ and NEOS.]] Listen to your ways that you have in the party! Where do the freedom, the justice of performance and the ideal of the high-performance society remain? [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Create You are not a climate where ownership, property and property are considered to be something tainted, be glad that there are people in our country who work hard and save something! This has, in any case, become virtually impossible because of this huge tax burden. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Abg. Strache: The diligent worker is basically a criminal – or how?]] Another appeal: Let the people help the neighborhood! We all know that there are grey zones. Yeah, that's it, and that's not right either. But let us be honest, without this generous neighborhood aid, half of the houses in Austria would not stand at all. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The policy needs to be better saved and not to carry out all of its expenditure on the back of taxpayers who have already suffered so much. Only because the government does not know how to combat this tax reform must not sacrifice the privacy and fundamental rights of citizens. Dear Government, do not mistrust the citizens, but trust You're on it: Most people are diligent and honest. Create Neither do you take off the cash, which would be the next step according to your logic. Rather, we need a positive mood in Austria, a new age of founders, so that the economy can start again – the economy is, as we know, a matter of trust for a large part. And not only should the politicians trust the citizens, but they should also be able to trust the politicians again. To this end, I would like to say the following: The government under Chancellor Faymann seems to be pifting on data protection when it comes to filling in all creativity the marod state funds. But when it comes to tax money, in particular federal liability in millions or perhaps even billions, when asked which companies the taxpayers need to stand up for without their knowledge, we like to call on data protection. I'm talking about the corporate liquidity law. Through this law from 2009, the Federal Government was able to assume liability for companies that had become saddened in the course of the financial crisis in order to make them easier to get credit. To date, citizens are partly responsible for huge sums for these private companies, where the Republic has decided to support them during the financial crisis. A year ago, I asked for a performance test and felt asked 20 times in this House: Which companies are the Austrian taxpayers responsible for? – I have not received a single answer to this day. By the way, one of these companies was the ALPINE – it must be assumed – the biggest pleite of the Second Republic. It seems that through this corporate liquidity strengthening law, the big banks simply passed on their bad loans to the federal government, to the taxpayers. The losses have therefore flown to the taxpayer, and it cannot and must not be that taxpayers must be liable for poorly managed companies that then plead! [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Loacker.]] Where else is the ALPINE? Even on very specific questions, for which companies the taxpayers were obliged, the government only hears: Data protection. Yeah, there's suddenly a data protection. The taxpayers, however, are not in favour of politicians using them to school large banks' risk business – and this is still very secret. In reality, after the Hypo-U committee, we needed a Liability U committee. So that we are clear about the sums, dear taxpayers: The sum of all the country's liability is only half the size of the federal liability. The taxpayers, however, do not want to receive secret liability, but to know their right to privacy. When it comes to tax money, very dear government, there must be no data protection, but when it comes to the taxed money of citizens, we need data protection. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] With a SPÖ without big heads like Androsch and Gusenbauer, hops and malts are lost anyway, but, dear Marcus Franz, dear Georg Vetter, the ÖVP is turning me around! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e5724	Mr Krainer is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e5746	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is about banking secrecy, and the colleague Meinl-Reisinger used the word “Imbalance”, that is, out of lot, out of balance. Yes, there are some areas in this republic that have come out of balance. The first thing we have seen is that the share of the cake, when it was distributed, has come out of balance between those who have wealth and those who go to work for their incomes, because income from wealth has increased dramatically, whereas the incomes of the millions of Austrians who work hard and hard every day and whose pieces of cake have become smaller. This is an Imbalance we've seen. [[Abg. Kickl: The old papers!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hauser.]] The next balance we have seen is who pays taxes and who brings up the share of the total tax benefit in that country. For example, the proportion of cakes for those who go to work for their income – yes, that's a balance of blue government activity, you're perfectly right – is only about 60 percent, but those who pay 85 percent of taxes, whereas those who earn their income over wealth only pay about 15 percent of the taxes in that country, but receive 40 percent of the income. [[Abg. Kickl: A devastating balance sheet of social democratic government!]] [[Abg. Kickl: You know that so well! They demonstrate year after year on 1. May!]] – Yes, we also have an Imbalance. When we talk about data transfer, about transparency, about what the state knows and what it does not know, we only have a real balance. The state knows everything about every pensioner, every pensioner in this country, about every worker, about every employee, about every contract employee, about every official: the income, the annual income, the wage and income tax that has been retained, the social security et cetera, but the state knows nothing about wealth, wealth income and those who, for example, are self-employed and withdraw taxes – most of the self-employed are certainly totally tax-moneyed, but many benefit from the possibilities of banking secrecy just to withdraw taxes. This too is an Imbalance we have. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The Federal Government is quite right to say: We no longer want to see how banking secrecy is abused for tax evasion. And that's what happens. Of course, banking secrecy is misused for tax evasion, by very few and to the detriment of all others. The school will not be cheaper, just because one, two or even ten do not pay their taxes, but those who pay the tax honestly will have to pay a higher share. That is something we have experienced in development. It is important to put forward a bar and to say clearly: Taxation is very important, and this, of course, requires appropriate mechanisms. That is why the account register and, of course, the access to the accounts are in order. But that's, of course, power, and power needs control. We also know this from the government participation of the liberals, for we have seen how they have dealt with the power – the bags are fully cleared. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schimanek.]] Especially when it comes to banking secrecy: I still remember quite well that on behalf of Grasser the then financial market supervision pioneered the SPÖ accounts, and the figures they researched stood 14 days later in the newspaper, by chance four weeks before a election. [[Abg. Sherak: That was good!]] [[Abg. Kickl: Propos Party Rehabilitation, that's an interesting chapter anyway!]] That means, yes, power needs control. That is why it is important to make a reasonable legal protection, as well as a data protection. Yeah, that's what we're trying to do. There is one reason why the IP collection and fingerprints are not yet available: Because legal protection has not yet been large enough in the previous government proposals. To be honest, it did not need any greens or NEOS. It's enough for the SPÖ to look at these things. Yeah, we're looking at data protection. Although Jacky Maier is no longer there, it is still part of the Social Democratic Club's DNA that data protection is an important value. If the liberals are talking about data protection here, I only remember one thing: When the FPÖ was in the government – Mr Bösch and Mr Rosenkranz, you voted in favour – what did the state do? What did the government do? The Central Registration Register, the reporting data of all Austrians, sold! Sold for money! So, when they are in power, the liberals look at the data protection. These are not data protectors, but data dealers! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schimanek.]] So I mean, you should just remember your own decisions that you have taken in this house before you point your finger at others. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] By the way, I would like to say one more thing because we are talking about Imbalance here: I remind you: Hungarian People's Uprising 1956 – 180 000 refugees came to Austria at that time. How many of them have spent one night in the tent? - None. After the “Prag Spring, ” 160,000 people came. How many of them have spent one night in the tent? - Not one. Poland 1980, 1981: 120 000 to 150 000 people. No night had to spend one of these Poles in the tent. Bosnia and Herzegovina in the 1990s: Within a few months, 90,000 people have come. No one had to spend one night in the tent. [[Abg. Stroll: Who's in the government?]] When we talk about Imbalance, I say one thing: It is a shame that refugees who arrive here from the war are welcomed by the FPÖ as much as in Erdberg, and secondly that they may still be accommodated in the tent. That's changed!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e5879	The next item is the speech by Mr Auer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e5900	Thank you, Madam President. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Strolz, some points of your urgent request could and should be discussed seriously, and I also say quite frankly that we could agree with some of them. For example: “Effecting an efficient and effective transparency database” – we have not been asked from agriculture and we have to present it – “Unification of the accounts of the federal states” – quite a positive view of things – “clear rules for disbursement, participation management and the liability of participation” – the same – “compulsory disclosure of all liabilities also for distributed units of the public sector”. I say quite frankly to you: I was mayor for 32 years. There you can read exactly how much liability is, how the level of liability is and what liabilities have been entered in an invoice. In addition, the Upper Austrian municipal law provides for an obligation to hold such a decision-making and discussion of the accounts at a public meeting and not, so to speak, behind walls. It is also possible to discuss the “implementation of an insolvency law for local authorities”. This can be done, but I would draw attention to the fact that this will be much more expensive in the future, because the banks will have to take a possible risk, no way will go. ‘Transparent financial settlement negotiations’ I wish since I was here in Parliament. For in Austria we have a financial inequality and no financial compensation – an inequality treatment! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Stroll: Then do it!]] Well, Mr Strolz, but what have you listed on the subject of monitoring here?- Oh, my God! It might even be quite good if you didn't focus your cameras on us, but on yourself. Maybe you could see yourself then, maybe then you could see what you listed in part here today. [[Members of the NEOS shall address to themselves the surveillance cameras on their own tables with the inscriptions “Surveillance State”, which were previously aimed at the speaker’s desk.]] - Yeah, that would be good. It would also be good if they were switched on. That would be really good if you could see this and compare it. Because I'm telling you quite openly: No to a surveillance state, but yes to certain surveillance, because such surveillance cameras and fingerprints have often led to the investigation of crime. [[Abg. Stroll: But not in the living room!]] That is the other side, so that this is also clarified, ladies and gentlemen. You are, if anything is discussed, always the master of exaggeration, but today you were more pessimistic, so fearsome. You once stood out here and showed us wings, didn't you? Now, as it were, you're flying at unexpected altitudes. – Well, in the meantime, the flight has become a little deeper. But if the sun of knowledge is as low as it is with you today, then nothing more will surprise me. Ladies and gentlemen, this tax reform is certainly not bad for us. It is a clear volume, it brings a corresponding discharge to many. And everyone is in favour of a tax reform – except there is then a point where perhaps some parts of a counter-funding can also be considered. Then it will be critical! Mrs Colleagues Rebaur – that's not here right now – to remember: In 2007, at the beginning of this crisis, not only the federal government has assumed liability, but many Austrian banks have borne corresponding companies with tens of thousands of employees through this crisis. This is also the case once. One should not pretend that the banks had only advantages there. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] To the Account Register Act: Mr Federal Minister, I urge that there be no arbitrary consultation by officials, but that there should be judicial approval. It can't be done differently. Information to customers in the event of access to accounts must be provided to the public about the activities. It is necessary to ensure legal protection for customers, it would also be necessary to clarify whether a certain limit of the amount could not be used in reporting accounts and in the automatic exchange of information, and with regard to the current data collection, grid inspection, it is also a question of whether this is necessary. If you read the draft carefully, you will be asked whether the costs of this management and the implementation of these measures are in line with the benefits. The fact is: If, in the case of accounts of different associations, of people and so on – as an example, only the Maturaball account is listed – where several people draw, all these persons are to be communicated, I wonder if they are useful. I am not talking about groups of guinea pigs, beekeeping associations and other areas, about small regional associations that have a significant impact on village life. Next, the capital outflow-meld law. There is very little discussion about this. Here too, the question should be asked whether it is really necessary to report any transaction. We have the final taxation by the Kest in Austria. So if such a small amount of money has to deliver the interest, I think you should not shoot at the target, but you should ask yourself whether, as it were, every smallest amount is to be reported under this capital outflow law, because the sum of the amounts is to be counted together. If it were a single amount, okay, then one could discuss it, but if the sum of the amounts exceeds a certain limit and this is to be reported, I wonder who is paying this effort, who is to carry out this effort and what benefits this effort should have.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e5976	Next, Mr Kickl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e5997	Madam President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Auer is already practicing as an oppositionist. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of NEOS and Team Stronach.]] If you listen to that, you ask yourself the question of who brought in this law that he has now taken apart. So if you're really that conviction, you'll do another internal round and blow off the entire maneuver. Then today's event would have found a real rainfall. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, in the words of the Minister, it was much of a reasonable suspicion. Each second, third phrase was “founded suspicion. ” You know, I, too, have a legitimate suspicion – but much more than a legitimate suspicion, it is an obvious fact that we have to do with – that the red and black state will and mystery in this country – and from the European Union's side to it – are getting more and more involved. While the freedom and privacy of citizens are getting less and less. That's more than a reasonable suspicion, that's a fact. And with what you're presenting here, you're making a further contribution to this misdevelopment. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Soon there is nothing more where the state does not have its greedy fingers and its sniffinase inside. And you have to ask yourself the question at some point: What is the role of the state? And there are obviously two different thinking models. We believe that the state has to protect the privacy of its citizens, that it has to guard them as one of its greatest treasures; On the other hand, they seem to believe that this privacy must be torpedoed, hollowed out and spyed out. And here, of course, worlds separate us, ladies and gentlemen. [[I should like to congratulate the FPÖ and Mr Strolz and Mr Hagen.]] We know this model – this surveillance state, this state that has its fingers in it everywhere, which has it, in particular, on the property of its citizens –: This is the Marxist thought model. We know this from the SPÖ, we know it from the Greens. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrary]] But now that the modernisation shift within the EIA is causing the People's Party to pick up on this nonsense, this is quite adventurous. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We live in a strange red-black republic, ladies and gentlemen, where there are two kinds of people: There's this red-black nomen-klatura, the greens I count there, and then there are the normal mortals. There are then completely different access to what is private. There is an example of this: For example, if we as representatives of the people here want to know, for example, whether a member of the government, such as the Austrian Chancellor, will take part in a meeting such as this Bilderberg meeting, which is currently taking place in Tyrol and will cause us millions of costs for monitoring, if we want to know what is being spoken there – perhaps about redistribution, Mr. Scheider or Mr. Krainer, perhaps we will have the fight for justice there – then we, the control bodies of these members of the government, will be shot down by saying that you are not doing anything, that is private. So there the private space is completely at the heart of the matter, there one calls upon the privacy that one does not want to give to the people in that country. That's an interesting difference. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] So the Bilderberg meeting of the Federal Chancellor – and whoever else drove around there, there were also enough blacks there – is all private, but the savings book of the grandma disappears against the promise of SPÖ and ÖVP from privacy, which will be lighted through in the future, and the banking secret will be buried. By the way, the seven-year gap in the life course of our Federal Chancellor is also private – that is a private matter. I mean, it's unique in the civilized world that you don't know what a head of government has done seven years of his life. If you're allowed to ask yourself somewhere: Please, what was there, for example, which qualifications have been acquired there, what has been acquired there in skill, what has he done?, then it says: It's all private, please, that's not your business at all, but when it comes to getting into To look into the private sector of the population, to the mobile phone connections, to the SMS connections of people who have never had anything to do with terror or similar things in life, then this privacy does not apply. That's where the state has its fingers all over the place, and I think it's inappropriate. [[I should like to congratulate the FPÖ and the representatives of the NEOS.]] Third example – this is once again about the Federal Chancellor, because he is at the head of the government –: If we want to know, if the population wants to know – in principle we don't care if it has it or not – where is the ominous matura witness of the Federal Chancellor – does he have one or has he none? – then we and the journalists in this country are not getting any information, because that is all private, that is nothing to us, but here one step after another is taken so that nothing remains of the privacy of the individual citizen. This is this world, in which there are, so to speak, two different kinds of people: Those who make up the nomenclature, and those who have to wash out all of this. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we are discussing this – what is the state’s status and what is the state’s concern? – have to be very, very intrusive with each other. In conclusion, I would like to draw your heart to a sentence from Rousseau, who writes at the beginning of his social contract: “Man is born free, and everywhere he lies in chains.” Ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and SPÖ, please, that was no praise, no recognition, which Rousseau has expressed there, but it is a charge for a state that is unsustainable. So stop putting the people on the chain with your tipping methods, with their intervention into the private's most private!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e6124	Next, Mr Magistrate. Rossmann speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e6146	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Internationally, the train is moving towards the fight against tax evasion, tax fraud, terrorist financing, money laundering. Austria is on this train late, very late ascended. If there had not been enormous pressure from the EU, OECD and the USA on the exchange of data in connection with the Interests Directive, we would not have joined the automatic exchange of information in connection with the Interests Directive today. So to speak, we would be here – and it was anyway – that state that took over this commitment as the last one. Austria, and this is not a coincidence, is in a list of the Tax Justice Network at the tax havens in place 18, worldwide, and this must have something to do with banking secrecy. If Mr. Strache turns out here and says that if the banking secret is to be loosened, then this is going to happen to the little ones because the big ones have their money on Cayman Islands or elsewhere, I have to say: No, Mr Strache, not at all. [[Abg. But why don't you protect the granny account, and that of the workers?]] In the period when Austria has concluded a corresponding agreement with Switzerland, a number of people, so-called debauchers, with their assets, with their money, are “repatriated” to Austria in order to seek the protection of Austrian banking secrets and hide themselves from finance. This is about €10 billion, Mr Strache. It's not about the little man and the little things. This is about large amounts of money, it's about big fraud, and we want this big fraud and we have to get to it. [[Congratulation with greens and SPÖ.]] If Mr Strolz or Mrs Meinl-Reisinger are here in the course of the course of the course of the debate and say that no one is against the fight against tax evasion, but at the same time he is panicking, I must say: I don't realize you wouldn't be against tax fraud. [[Abg. Stroll: international data exchange!]] What do I mean by panic? – It's already starting with you saying it's all under general suspicion. – Please, this is an affront against the millions of honest taxpayers in this country, please note! – With this camera you don't see any account in at all. [[Congratulation with greens and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strolz keeps his surveillance camera up to date with the “Surveillance State” label.]] If you make yourself here, compare with Germany, and say how many of the account reviews in Germany have come in recent years, you have to do some things right. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] First of all, it is correct to say that this is not account views, but surveys into the account register. And that's something fundamentally different, because a survey in the account register only means that I see who has which drawing accounts – and nothing else! It's not about cash flows on accounts. In Germany, therefore, these 230 000 cases, of which you are reporting here, are not about consulting accounts, but about the account register. And why do these figures explode in the Federal Republic of Germany? – Because in addition to the criminal authorities, besides the financial authorities and tax authorities, many other authorities can consult the account register. [[Abg. Strolz: This will come to Austria! Do you like that?- Oh, my God!]] – I'm still coming! And this number has, among other things, increased so recently – you would have had that in the “Süddeutsche Zeitung” of 15. April can read; but you don't, you just make up your mind and say something that's not right, and you're panicking about it – as the new group of executioners came in last year to make queries to the account register. In Germany, however, a survey into the account register with the query of account data has only the financial value. [[Abg. Stroll: You open the door!]] Mr Strolz, now I tell you one thing: We are the guarantee that in Austria it will not be possible for anyone except those authorities I have mentioned – criminal authorities, financial criminal authorities and tax authorities – to take a look at this account register and to take a look at data. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Finally, as regards the question of legal protection and the actual view: You can also assume that we are the guarantee that there will be a rule of law solution with a judge. Letter You're in your master's book! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e6253	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Alm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e6275	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! “Winter is coming” I can only say. This recommendation by Eddard Stark to dress warm should be welcomed, because the surveillance state is simmering in some laws in Austria, creeping but still at a breathtaking pace. We are slowly missing the overview of where monitoring measures are being put in place. That is why it is also urgent that we do something like a monitoring account; because it is often the case that sensible methods of investigation are not evaluated or thought through, but that the easy way is simply to collect data and that the fundamental law is bent in some way. Some things also go very fast, like the State Protection Act. Some things go very slowly, like the law on freedom of information, which will never be passed. This process was started in the State Protection Act last autumn. By the way, a Potemkin village was built for the opposition, which, as it were, was allowed to accompany this process, but which was not provided with any really substantial information. That means we got nothing written, but only oral information. In essence, a wish list has been implemented by the BAT, which is sufficient to create V-persons who come from the semi-criminal/criminal environment, whose evidence is sometimes not even in court. It is expected that the duration of the data storage will be extended to five years, with the paradoxical situation that the queries of this data will only be stored for three years. Overall, this law creates a new intelligence service, or, if you think it federalistic, perhaps up to ten new intelligence services, all of which do not receive the appropriate form of control they should have. The legal protection officer can, as it were, be re-evaluated by the authority to be controlled, and parliamentary control is on the spot on this issue. We really do not miss the government's action in this regard. Of course, the legal requirements are satisfied and the BND-NSA-affair comes with the corresponding ads. But most of the population simply wishes to protect themselves from being expelled from foreign intelligence services, and there is far too little happening. The same applies to data storage, where it is proven that it does not deliver useful results. Nevertheless, the calls do not stop the introduction of this storage of data. We have made it clear, on parliamentary questions, how the ministers of this kind stand. Mikl- Leitner and Brandstetter have been diplomatically suffocated in that they did not immediately agree that they wanted such a thing, but it was clear to read out. A conflicting answer came from Minister Stöger, who says: “But I must say again that I see no need for a re-introduction of data storage.” – I hope that my colleague Krainer will then also remind him of the DNA of the data protectors at SPÖ and that this need will not be determined later on. The authorities' data hunger now also applies to financial authorities. It is planned to request traffic and operational data in the financial criminal proceedings. The organisation of the Internet Service Providers in Austria, ISPA, sees this very critically and says that the proposed provision is in clear contradiction to the permissible cases of the processing of these traffic data in the Telecommunications Act. – This is something we should not take on the light shoulder. ISPA goes on to say that we should be moving here on a "slippery slope" where, of course, other authorities also have a desire to access this data. This access to account register is also not to be taken lightly and not as harmless as you represent it, Minister. Mr Auer – and not in the room – has previously carried it out and addressed a criticism point that can be read in the impact targets for the bank package. There's inside: “The goal is achieved when private customers are from 1st century onwards. It is not possible to deduct any larger amounts from its Austrian bank accounts and deposits without the transaction being reported to the Federal Ministry of Finance.’ So, we no longer have a pull determination here that these data will be used, but rather a push determination that these data will be actively transmitted. And that is then a little more far-reaching than just an access with a judicial decision. In view of the forthcoming re-issue of data storage, a State Protection Act, which creates a new intelligence service here, the identification of the financial without judicial decision, insight into accounts, fingerprints and so on, in view of the lack of evaluation of existing measures and also the abolition of methods no longer in time, it is urgent to establish a monitoring account. I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I don't want to put anyone's malice here, but I can say one thing: there's a careless way to deal with fundamental rights here.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e6363	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Alm is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e6436	Next speaker: Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e6458	Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen on the audiences and on the televisions! A great deal has already been put in front of us by colleagues. Of course, we support the special “Stop the State of Surveillance” meeting that we have held. I would like to start with the colorful part of the “Kronen Zeitung” yesterday. Dr. Tassilo Wallentin brings it to the point and ends with the sentence: “The citizens hang and let the great ones run.” – This is now going through like a red thread and almost seems to be trying to distract you from the actual discussions. Mrs Glavischnig, if you say that this serves to combat international tax fraud, I think it is wrong if we control the savings reduction or the savings book of the granny – they will not be involved there. This is a fatal view of this subject, and I can immediately present the drawing that belongs to the “Krone” article yesterday. [[The speaker holds a panel on which a rider is represented with the title “Group Tax”, which tries to catch three horses with the inscriptions “IKEA”, “Google” and “Starbucks” with a Lasso.]] – The corporations – please! – have these tax-saving derogations, the companies are fleeing from the tax payment, and I cannot understand that one is then here in the house saying that one should criminalise the hard-working and the skilled. – This hurts this state most of the time. If we have those people who still have the courage to run a business, those people who still have the willingness to do something, to design something, to assume that they are tax evasioners, then it hurts this sustainable economic location Austria, then no one is willing to do anything anymore. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I bring a recent example. I said then, we're talking about life here, and I think that's necessary. I was at a big party yesterday: A young businessman who operates a discotheque and is willing to execute the "voecklabrucker MAIDULT" – Mrs. Little is here – has tried to raise this festival with 40 employees for three years, has paid for tent rent, organized and paid expensive music chapels. Twice it was so cold and so wet that no people came, and now it was so hot that people went swimming. And then we want to criminalise this one or perhaps watch him get the money out of the family so that he can pay his wages?- Oh, my God! This is the fatale of the whole discussion, and that is why you have to position yourself very differently here. The problem is that this Group policy always gets back cover, that this Group policy – and I repeat what I said in the refugee issue – is largely responsible for having these refugee flows, because we do not pay the justified wages there, because we partially withdraw them from the basis of life and because they then, of course, travel with them or with their possibilities with these goods. Next point, which is not discussed quite properly: The “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten” of Saturday 0.0 percent! – This too must be brought into this discussion about the opening of savings accounts. [[The speaker shall hold a panel with the label ‘0.0%’]] Point one: Who gives you the opportunity to open a savings account? – I think no one can go to the bank and open an account without having to legitimise himself and have to justify all the evidence, all the deposits. Point two: If the deposits on this account are then paid 0.0 percent interest, then no one or no one will be willing to carry the money to the bank. If one sees at present how the small earners, the hard-working, the workers, colleagues, and up to €32 in the quarter for account management and payrolling, even if there is no activity to create but one's own account evidence, then one must also see from the side whether this system serves those people on whose backs is discussed here at all. It is a pity that the colleague It's not here: It is a great approach to finally reach the fair distribution key among the communities. Some colleagues from the ÖVP have even used this for a great picture with the big key in the media, but apparently the colleague Auer has been looking for the right castle for 30 years – because if he is now sorry that the financial compensation is not right, I wonder what he has been doing for the past 32 years. I believe that this is the very decisive, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, and it is also the results. And that's the essential thing: Don't distract from the discussion! I would like to conclude by because this is actually in the circle: No matter if it is the abolition of cash – you think of Denmark; it is only in 2016 and there it is only discussed – whether it is TTIP that goes so far that we even need it to our valuable – as the Minister has said – organic food – the we do not have – to export to America, regardless of whether there are any approaches in this country to the neutrality or now to take a clear position on these bank accounts openings, the positioning of the national leaders is clearly appropriate to the election date. No matter when it is elected – we have just experienced it in the last two country elections –, it is important to maintain power, it happens by all means. But the essential thing is that I am also missing in Upper Austria – there are a lot of Upper Austrian colleagues here – the clear position of Landeshuptmann Pühringer and the question is whether they will be after the 27th century. September is valid. We reject this criminalisation of citizens, we strongly reject this criminalisation of entrepreneurs! We want free citizens! We want free entrepreneurs! We want a country in which life, the economy, the work is a joy! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e6542	The next speaker is Mrs Lueger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e6563	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear Colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen! The fight against tax evasion is necessary as it allows the majority of the population to be taxed. However, this is only possible if public finances are also balanced for those who have no wealth to hide and hide and no loopholes can benefit and benefit from. If we are honest with the truth and as Mr. Strache demands honesty: But then you are honest enough and you also say that the financial office of every employee, of every employee, of every employee, of every employee and of all pensioners up to the Cent knows exactly what he or she deserves and does not have the opportunity to withdraw any taxes, even have the opportunity to look for variants or loopholes, or even to take a lawyer – as in the discussion – and to pay attention to how you can work as tax-savingly as possible. That means, for all those, nothing changes exactly. With regard to the two government templates, which we are actually discussing – the tax reform law 14/15 and the banking law – the assessment phase expired on Friday. And we are also in favour of the fact that there are still many things in the opinions. In the parliamentary process, we have the opportunity to ask for this. I would like to quote David Walch. David Walch is the spokesperson of Attac, who is not always such a government-friendly group, who considers the draft law to be “a breakthrough in the fight against tax fraud”. "In any case, banking secrecy does not offer any advantages for the majority of Austrians: The wages and salaries of the workers and employees are known to both the financial office and social security until the last cent. There’s nothing to hide from them.” – And that’s been since the last 20, 30 years. I don't understand now from your side why you're against it. Tomorrow, as there are still concerns, the Data Protection Council will deal with the law and give its opinion to the Ministry of Finance. If Mr Strolz says that it is now time to defend fundamental rights, I am also saying, as a member of the Constitutional Committee, that it is always our task to defend the fundamental rights of citizens. We should That is why all work together and simply decide on this law in accordance with the law. I am convinced that the account register is also permitted by constitutional law, since for the In general, the procedure can be very well permitted. In the case of access rights – and the Minister himself said that – one has to re-adjust. There are also ideas: First of all, this is the four-eye principle that must be there by the Financial Office. There must be a record, a documentation about who, when, why, has looked. And there are the two variants, either by judicial decision or by the legal protection officer – which one wants to agree on, the discussion will result. I do not want to comment any more on the exploding numbers in Germany, that has been done by Mr Rossmann and many others in the run-up. In Germany all offices are allowed to access, that is not the case with us. It's not in the law now, Mr Strolz, that's not the point. The negotiations – and you all know that – are at the highest level on freedom of information. Mrs Dietrich, you first praised Mr Vetter, who has turned you away. But he was also involved in these negotiations, perhaps you should have talked to him. Or Mr Strolz, you are sitting with Mr Alm in these negotiations, perhaps you should also talk to him before you talk about freedom of information here. The transparency database is an important instrument in which we absolutely need the participation of the countries. We are also referring to the principles of general budgetary management, which should apply both to the Federal Government and to the countries. The state and the population escape income through tax fraud, not only worldwide, but also here with us in small Austria. And if we resist trying to capture tax fraud, find out how to finance our common good, then I don't understand the world anymore. We have the task of working against the fact that large assets simply withdraw from taxation in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e6631	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Zakostelsky. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e6652	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! To remind you of one thing: Today we are talking about the largest volume tax reform in the Second Republic. On the other hand, this reform is being criticised in terms of soil and soil. Now, of course, we all know that, especially in politics, the means of exaggeration are very much used, that politics lives in part of it, and of course in both directions, we have to say fairly. But, ladies and gentlemen, let's leave the church in the village! The Minister for Finance has succeeded in a really big throw – and it has been said so blatantly today – of a collective reform. But let's remember. To create a collective reform that really favours workers in Austria in particular was the great consensus of the demands of all political groups when we think back a few months. With a total volume of €5.2 billion of redundancies, which will be felt especially for the incomes of the taxpayers, this discharge takes place and is really an essential driver for a Economic recovery in 2016 – of course, it will only take place gradually. To keep it under control: This has enabled the Minister of Finance to achieve a really big step towards reform. Now, many say that there is no way to win elections with reforms. This admittedly presents some decision-makers with paradoxical situations. Nevertheless, as long as we are convinced of the need for reforms, the EIA will continue to initiate them and will continue to try to implement them. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Recently, everyone felt that Austria needed reforms. I think Austria really needs it and the ÖVP stands for it. If one leaves aside party tactics, one can see that the present tax reform is in total such a substantial reform. On the other hand, of course, it is about looking at the detail. Today, some of the correct comments have already been made. In the case of these details it is necessary to carry out the corresponding examinations and improvements. Of course, the excitement on this issue must not be that we are respectfully trying to motivate people more on the tax figures. No doubt this is not the issue. On the other hand, however, it is also about protecting the financial privacy of citizens from mild attacks. We need the crucial moments of a legitimate suspicion and judicial approval – justified suspicion and judicial approval, ladies and gentlemen. However, it did not need the NEOS or the Stronachs. I think we can remember that from the beginning of the discussion with Hermann Schützenhofer, the Styrian People's Party has communicated very loudly that it is about protecting the privacy of the citizens from these mild attacks. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stroll.]] – We can check the data, I think there are two weeks in between. In any case, the draft assessment is available. We know on the one hand that the account register is on the one hand, and the second and, as admittedly, much more sensitive point is that, according to the draft understanding of the accounts and the concrete accounts movements, the tax authorities would be concerned about the accuracy of the taxpayer's information alone. Of course, that will be too little. The law was in review until last Friday – we have already heard that. Mr Strolz, I believe that there is still the need to hear the quote. I think we can remember that already on 22. May Head of state Hermann Schützenhofer has clearly stated – literal quote: “The opening of accounts currently being discussed in the course of the tax reform without a court decision or without a judge is not possible for us.” – And Schützenhofer has repeated this today, by the way, in a broadcast so that you can also see, this is not really about electoral tactics, but about content topics. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I could quote a number of other well-known ÖVP politicians – Brandstetter, Pröll and also Mikl leaders – but also well-known representatives of the economy have held: "State arbitrarily, however, must be set close limits where they are taking a lasting part in the lives of the individual." It is up to Parliament to consider these legitimate concerns, as well as the opinions of public and private institutions, and on this basis we will make careful decisions together. I'm too. Convinced that the Minister of Finance is taking these opinions very seriously and will be involved in the final draft law. As the chairman of the Committee on Finance, I would like to set a cornerstone for the parliamentary work of the next few weeks and say: In terms of content, I believe, we agree on today's words. It can't be that our citizens are suspected of being general, nor can it be that the impression of being a businessman has to be equal to being a criminal, ladies and gentlemen. Nor can it be – this has not been discussed so intensively today – that, as is foreseen in the draft, employees of credit institutions with horrendous penalties of up to €150 000 per transfer error of account data, even in the event of negligence, are threatened. Ladies and gentlemen, I invite all the political groups to see us on this sensitive matter, which concerns the fundamental rights of our citizens, not only on 30 June. In June, we will hold our usual financial committee meeting, but in the run-up to discussions with experts, of course also with the top officials of the Ministry of Finance and Justice, and together we will try to reach an all-party view and thus an all-party agreement. If you look at today's speeches, there are, of course, many nuances and many party-tactic considerations, but it is clear – at least this way – for all of us that the well-being of our citizens is in the foreground. The ÖVP has always been and is a party for which the glass state and not the glass citizen should be implemented. Ladies and gentlemen, the introduction of a general suspicion towards private and economic operators would lead to a sort of marginal state. That can and must not be it. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e6749	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Fuchs. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e6771	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! High house! Values Advisors! A clear yes to the fight against fraud – whether tax or social fraud – but also a clear no to abolish banking secrecy for domestics. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The abolition of banking secrecy is only the first step of the Federal Government, the abolition of the cash will be the next step. As you can hear, the EU is already preparing an appropriate directive. And as with the abolition of banking secrecy, the fight against fraud must be justified in the planned abolition of the cash. Indeed, the anonymity of cash is used to withdraw taxes, according to the explanatory statement. Not only we liberals, but also the constitutional service of the Federal Chancellery, several state governments, the ÖGB and many other institutions warn of disproportionate interference in the privacy and superfluous powers of the tax authorities in their opinions. In its opinion, the Ministry of Justice has also criticised the lack of legal protection in the event of the tax authority's insight. Effective legal protection against arbitrary access by the tax authorities is no longer provided in the future. The constitutional fundamental right of data protection is hereby trampled here with feet. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The mass of Austrians is tax-honored. However, the Federal Government places the Austrians, whether entrepreneurs or private persons, under the general suspicion of tax evasion. The principle of confidence in the state's relationship with its citizens is thus replaced by the principle of distrust. The abolition of banking secrecy and the flat-rate suspicion by the Federal Government will affect the attitude of the population as a state and the tax morale of the population because the population feels suspicious. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The Chancellor of the Federal Republic has meant that fraud fighters are getting the necessary tool in their hands through this novel. Such a tool would also be aid in relation to group taxation. In this context, I would like to quote from the Court of Auditors' report on group taxation June 2013: "In the light of the information provided by the financial offices and the large-scale audit, since the introduction of the group tax, there has been no single administrative aid procedure in connection with the application and/or the application of the directive. Post-taxation of losses of foreign group members’. I would like to ask myself why the existing anti-fraud tools are not being used in large companies. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Vice-Chancellor also has strange access to the fight against fraud. Addressed the issue of anti-fraud in the "press hour" on 15. In March 2015, Mr. Vice-Chancellor – I quote – stressed: “It’s not about the whole little one who has an account in Switzerland, but about very big cases.” - Quote. What did Mr Vice-Chancellor mean by this statement? Which little ones have an account in Switzerland? For what reason should the Swiss accounts of the so-called little ones be protected? – Apparently, it is important to the Vice-Chancellor that the financial privacy of those who have an account in Switzerland is protected. The financial privacy of the Austrian savers is apparently not worthy of protection for Mr Vice-Chancellor. The future legal situation will make it safer for locals for data protection reasons to have an account in Switzerland, because Switzerland only reports the achievements of Austrian finance, but usually does not allow Austrian finance to understand the Swiss account. Mr Finanzminister! This cannot be in your sense that the Austrian savers in Switzerland will be better protected in the future than in Austria? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] House searches may only be carried out within the framework of a proper legal procedure. Why is there something else to apply to a bank account? – The draft of this unbearable state law must never become law! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] For us, the fundamental right to data protection and legal protection is essential in the context of a proper legal procedure. We liberals will certainly not provide the government with a two-thirds majority. The banking secret for domestics is untouchable.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e6871	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e6892	Ladies and gentlemen! Probably the least likely to pay taxes. However, as some representatives here, especially of the Stronach team, but also of the NEOS and the FPÖ steu fraud, are not responsible in my opinion. Tax fraud means nothing more than reducing our prospects for the future, because taxes are nothing but the solidarity contribution of a society to important concerns such as the construction of hospitals, kindergartens and other public institutions. To illustrate to the Stronach team a little bit where the problem is in tax fraud, I'm entering his world. Tax fraud could also be seen as a distortion of competition – an entrepreneur pays taxes, the other does not pay. Who has an advantage, and is this advantage that that businessman who commits tax fraud takes, fair and in your mind? The third point is that the small employee, the small worker, is not asked at all. His data and his tax are transferred directly from the entrepreneur. It wouldn't even have the chance of tax fraud. That's good. However, it has never been annoyed that this news is automatically reported that there is no data protection here and that the income of this person has already been practically disclosed to the financial office. There was no protest by the Stronach team, no protest by the FPÖ, no NEOS protest. That doesn't bother you, because it's not your problem either, it's not about these people. Obviously, you are dealing with quite a different issue. [[Congratulation with greens and SPÖ.]] That tax fraud does not mean that everything is allowed in the fight against tax fraud. It is quite clear that we are moving in a tension between fundamental rights and efficient tax procedures. If the honourable Member asks that there be judicial control at the opening of bank accounts, I say that is the fine difference between NEOS and Greens. You demand that we enforce exactly that in the negotiations, there is this judicial control. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Stroll: Only because you have been pushed by us!]] If the strategist comes out and says that he does not want the small unemployed to be looked at by the social offices, I say that he asks that the Greens will enforce in the negotiations exactly that the social offices cannot pioneer the small unemployed. We're going to have a lot of other things to do. We will enforce that the access criteria are precisely defined and that it is built in, that at least the misuse of insight can be prevented, documented and thus explained. [[Congratulation with Greens and ÖVP.]] That's politics. We are dealing with the difficult tasks. You demand that we implement this, because we are interested in politics in the ways in which we can achieve and improve something. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Stroll.]] With self-confidence I therefore say that this tension ratio is in the best hands of the Greens. We have always taken a clear line on all questions, are suspicious and will continue this line. SPÖ and ÖVP were always careless in these questions of the State of surveillance. It has always said that what is technically possible the state should also be allowed to do. I would remind you of the debate on data storage. There's zero reputation here. And if Mr Zakostelsky turns out seriously here and says that the ÖVP has always been for the protection of the citizens and for the glass state, I ask where you were at the storage of data. Don't do that! You measure with two measurements: When it comes to your Minister of the Interior, the surveillance can't go far enough, and on other questions you suddenly discover an ambivalence, because completely different interests play in. The fact that the Stronach team turns out to be serious and takes the concepts of fundamental rights and civil rights into the mouth – that is your right – is, as I said, outrageous. You have a position at the storage of stock data, your colleague Hagen clearly says we want the storage of data. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] - He's still nodding. A confession. [[Abg. Hagen: You're twisting the facts!]] For storage of stock data, but at the opening of accounts, to say that is not possible, that is not conclusive. You NEOS do have a relatively clear line with fundamental rights. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stroll]] But what you are presenting with your request today is no longer comprehensible. With the Stronach team, which stands for data storage to make common cause, this is already questionable, but also compromises to meet this team Stronach and to file seriously in requests that only the overwhelming empowerment to collect fingerprints is problematic, that is not possible! [[Interlocutory calls from MEPs Meinl-Reisinger and Strolz]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Interlocutory calls from MEPs Meinl-Reisinger and Strolz.]] Nor is it possible to say that the introduction of systematic personal data storage would be problematic only without parliamentary control. [[Abg. Stroll: You're a polemist!]] That is translated, stock data storage yes, but with parliamentary control. I would have expected you to be more clear. The Greens have always driven a clear line. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[New calls from MEPs Meinl-Reisinger and Strolz.]] No to misuse banking secrecy for those who believe that they do not have to pay taxes from this point of view. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. That is exactly what we are going to do in the negotiations. We're drilling the hard boards. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e7033	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e7055	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Finance! I have two comments shortly ahead. Mr Zakostelsky, either They were at the meeting on 20 February. May not here, when Klubobmann Strolz said he asked for the court order for the account, or you brought the 22nd. ==References== ==References====External links==* Official website May. ==References== In my opinion, May is in any case in favour of it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] Mr Steinhauser, my dear Albert, this is absurd! You are sitting in every committee where we have submitted requests for non-re-introduction of data storage – in each of them! We'll bring him back today. In this respect, our attitude here is quite clear, and we have said so clearly. But what is at the heart of this debate and the many other debates in recent years is freedom. In my opinion, it is the essential freedom we are discussing here. With freedom it is such a thing because we are very often only in retrospect, then if we already have it have lost, that we miss them, and then it is unfortunately God too late. That's why we convened today's special meeting – by chance 66 years after the day George Orwell published his novel "1984" – because we do not want to lose this freedom until, when we have sacrificed all bourgeois freedoms on the altar of the all-supervising state, we want to make sure that we miss this freedom and that we have lost this freedom. The freedom of the individual is not always present in everyday life. On the one hand, this is a problem, and that is also because you feel very free in Austria. This is already comprehensible if you compare it with other countries or with other times in Austria, because you can actually live freely in Austria. That is why many citizens also agree that we are completely free anyway, and therefore we do not see how the state and politics are doing more and more restrictions of freedom almost every day – always in small doses, always in such a way that no one gets along, always somehow through the back door. That is why many do not even notice when the next small measure comes, which again limits our freedom. If this measure is then implemented a few months later, we usually find ourselves with it very quickly. Although there was a small excitement, it was usually not sustainable, and that is why this measure comes. Many believe that such small restrictions of freedom, which may not even be perceived as restrictions of freedom, have no real impact. The Federal Government then always argues quite clearly that anyone who has nothing to hide has nothing to fear either. In an interview with an Austrian daily, the Federal Chancellor said that he wanted to live as an example in such a way that he has nothing to hide. Right here is the all-important mistake, because everyone has something to hide. Mr. Federal Chancellor certainly does not want other people to know when he has telephoned with whom – Mr. Kickl has talked about these seven years in the CV of Mr. Federal Chancellor – the Federal Chancellor certainly does not want people to know if he wants to hide it, what he has done in these seven years. That's also his good right. Mr Finanzminister, there is no matter what your private account balance looks like. That's your right too. And I don't want you to store massive data from me so that conclusions can draw on my private life and thus know what I do when because my private life doesn't concern anyone. [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. El Habbassi.]] I want you to stay out of there and you don't save this data. I don't want you to know these things about me, and above all I have the right that you don't know. That is why the Constitutional Court and the ECJ have also cancelled the storage of data, so we do not need a new edition either. And so that the Greens are calmed down, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] The same request will now be put here by us for the x-th time. It must finally end with this constant look-out, this Biedermeier Attire, when it comes to restrictions of freedom. This convenience that we continue to accept the comprehensive state and its freedom-restriction measures must finally be put to an end. It is not just about these individual measures, which come from the Federal Government day after day and month for month, but above all about the whole. It's about freedom on its own. For centuries people have fought for having fundamental freedoms and human rights. We sacrifice this struggle day by day and month for month, because it is about the freedom of the state. And if the Federal Government systematically opposes this struggle by proposing new restrictions of freedom in the monthly rhythm, and if it wants to decide – always under the cover of the fight against terrorism or crime – all Austrians are suspected of doing so. That must finally end. The freedom of citizens, the freedom of individuals must be refocused. It must, I believe, be the ultimate maxim of our political action, so that now, 66 years after the publication of George Orwell’s ‘1984’, we do not arrive at what George Orwell described 66 years ago, namely this comprehensive, all-supervising state. It can't be. We must finally start fighting for the freedom of citizens.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e7145	The motion for a resolution tabled by my colleague, Dr Scherak, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e7203	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e7225	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Unfortunately, there is no sideboard in elections, as with medications, otherwise voters would have been able to get the side effects of the two millions of sponsored election campaigns – such as the Stronach and the NEOS team – and to think more quickly about whether this happened. [[Abg. Stroll: Every cent is revealed to us! Crowdfunding!]] In the meantime, they have already become more intelligent, as you can see at the election result. [[Abg. Stroll: That is not the truth!]] In our laws for decades there has been a question of what exactly a worker, a worker, an employee, the officials, every little pensioner, every small pensioner deserves – to the cent exactly! § 84 Income Tax Act. This is no reason for these two parties, who are here soon two years ago, to make a request, which is with the protection of privacy, no reason to make a urgent request – uninteresting! That's the mass of citizens, everything is reported up to the last cent of the tax. There are § 109a Income Tax Act – for years, Mr Strolz! [[Interlocutory calls from MEPs Meinl-Reisinger and Scherak.]] You haven't noticed that either! There, for example, every building savings agent transfers the amount of fees to the cent directly from his client to the finance, even for the newspaper colporteur, for the teachers and teachers, for all. This is not a problem for the millionaires, because it is about the simple people! That is why the question is not a problem! [[Inter-calls at the NEOS.]] But it's about lifting where the black money millions are, then the wings are fluttering. There is still the kickl harmless, which the German chancellor craves the matura certificate. No, at the crucial point where a special meeting is needed, it is about the fact that those who may have spent millions of euros on the side without tax pay a contribution so that the others pay less tax. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Stroll]] [[keeping an attack of a radar gun in height.]] That's where he's waving with the attack, Mr. Strolz. It is typical of being financed from a particular interest. Excuse me, Frank, it was a loan, as it turned out afterwards. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is also baffling, and this is why Members have to change. There it is a little different, but they paid it, and they knew what interest they had. [[Abg. Meil-Risinger: Have you disclosed your party finances?- Oh, my God!]] – That has nothing to do with it, Mrs. Colleague. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: This must have something to do with it!]] If you're elected by tens of thousands of people, then you'll be in charge of your mandate. Mr Stronach's voice was not Your mandate here, but the voice of those tens of thousands, who today also partially watch here. These are not the ones that the millions have shivered. [[Inter-calls at the NEOS.]] These are the ones who have to wait every month to get a transfer to which the tax has been deducted before. You chose them, not Mr Stronach and other millionaires. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Darmann.]] Stop making the policy for it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Hans Peter Haselsteiner can represent himself, he does not need your group here. And he said those who have enough money should even pay a higher tax. There's Hans Peter Hazelsteiner ten times better than you, Mr Strolz, because he's at least honest with that part. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Then you'll be glad!]] Another thing: If you don't care what the rest of the population is like, if you don't care that they pay for the cent exactly when the millionaires come when it finally comes to discovering the black money, then stop being the defenders of the black money millions – you too, Mrs. Colleague! [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: It doesn't matter!]] [[Abg. Is it still possible?- Oh, my God!]] [[Issuances of the Abg. Meinl-Reisinger]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e7407	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Steinacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e7429	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Appreciate fellow citizens, especially those who are here in Parliament today! Welcome! ‘Freedom means responsibility.’ George Bernard Shaw said that. The ÖVP is ready to assume responsibility. The freedom of the individual is always at the heart of us. It is now fully present in the new programme of principles, at the very heart of the matter. Therefore, it is always necessary to carefully examine, rethink, explore and regulate the boundaries between freedom rights and state rights. This is particularly true in connection with banking secrecy. Of course, as we have been discussing for almost three hours now, the draft law on the banking and financial law of the Ministry of Finance concerns the very sensitive area of privacy, where the limits of the freedom of individuals versus the regulatory requirements of the State are to be considered. I would like to make it clear to all the young ladies and gentlemen sitting on the top of the gallery: In principle, banking secrecy continues to exist. [[Abg. Pretty: Yes, basically!]] It consists of the credit institutions' obligation to be silent about customer-related facts and valuations. Please, let us arrange for the understanding and disclosure, but not the abolition of what a credit institution has promised us when creating an account. We now know that banking secrecy to financial authorities in Europe, Switzerland and the USA has been loosened in recent years. This was particularly so in view of the fact that we want to stop international tax fraud, we absolutely want to fight effectively. Let me briefly comment on the draft assessment. First of all, I come to the central account register. I expressly welcome this, because – and I would like to say this to Mr Strache, who is unfortunately not in the Chamber now, but you will be happy to set it up, and to the many other Members who have expressed their views on data storage on stocks today – the introduction of a central account register is not the re-introduction of data storage, ladies and gentlemen, it is a long-standing demand of the economic and corruption prosecutorship, and it brings us efficiency. You also know that only account type, account number and account holder are stored, account balances are not displayed. Ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens also have the right to know again what this debate is all about today. It is about strict data protection, including information from this central account register. Mr Steinhauser, there I am full of you. Of course, it is only under strict criteria that must be consulted. I even go so far as to say that the one who is being asked about must also be informed about it. Protective mechanisms on this question – which our Federal Minister of Finance has clearly said – are now to be considered as far as the Council of Ministers is concerned, as part of the preparation of the government template. Mr. Federal Minister, you've been sitting here for three hours – I know you as a person who can listen well – you certainly take seriously the concerns expressed here today. Like the opinions that are there, I naturally expect to be taken seriously and even more precisely defined where emphasis is needed, in particular with regard to the protection of the law, the protection of the proceedings. Secondly, to take a look at the private accounts: In my opinion, this goes relatively far in this draft assessment and is certainly still to be intensified. I mean, it's up to you to keep your peace. There are, when you have read the opinions, very reasonable suggestions on how to improve them. I would like to express my express thanks today for being one of the last speakers, with all the colleagues who have made constructive proposals on this subject today. We all agree on the consistent approach to tax evasion; there has been no word against it. This is necessary, and the individual's protection needs to the State must not be violated. Because Mr Meinl-Reisinger spoke only of proportionality as a criterion of consultation, I say it is clearly regulated, the necessity and the expediency must also be explained. This request for information must, of course, be duly justified. I assume that exactly this is the measure that, no matter what procedures are now going to be followed – that is what I am going to do – which is then naturally put to the test. The opening of accounts to and for myself may only be the Ultima Ratio in the process. In my opinion, it is a legal obstacle before an account is opened if there is such a suspicion. I do not understand the judge – nice when he comes – I believe that an independent, impartial and non-wisdom law guard is certainly a good opportunity. It is also important to consider how a procedure can be organised quickly. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] I still believe that there must be an opportunity, at least, to take an appeal. I am opposed to an unrestricted interference in privacy – it is not foreseen either. The people can and will never be a goal, but to capture, capture and punish those who cheat, and to punish them accordingly, that is already the goal of this government template. That is why I hope that we will have intensive discussions in the next two or three weeks and that we will achieve a good common outcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e7474	The next item is the speech by Mr Podgorschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e7496	Mr President. Federal Minister! With these measures to counter-finance the tax reform, the State clearly presents its interests to the interests of its citizens. In order to obtain the red and black positions of power and above all to finance the tax reform, the government must always take new taxes, taxes and other measures. Finally, however, we pay taxpayers all these so-called reforms themselves. As a result, the government and tax rates are getting higher and the people's willingness to pay taxes is getting lower. In this death spiral – I deliberately call it a death spiral – is now our government. Indeed, the taxpayer is much easier to tax when he feels that his funds are being handled carefully and they do not serve to satisfy individual or group interests. [[Abg. Rädler: Just like the hypo!]] Professor Friedrich Schneider of the JKU Linz says that 85 percent of the population would like to pay their Obolus. Austria is one of the most taxing countries behind Switzerland, the Netherlands and Luxembourg – the original quote Schneider. [[Mr Matznetter and Mr Rädler.]] It is therefore inexplicable why the Minister of Finance believes that we can manage tax fraud in order to counter-finance the tax reform of €1.9 billion. The government acts as a drug addict who needs an ever higher dose to keep all promises and to be able to serve his own clientele. [[Abg. Wheeler: Hello! Ordinary call!]] As a result, the government is entitled to obtain any means to obtain additional revenue; citizens' rights remain on the track. The achievements of the 1848 revolution, such as freedom of expression, freedom of the press and general civil rights, are now gradually lost through these measures. After 167 years, should we stand before this democratic political epochal step back? Are we threatened after Metternich again with all its horrors? Stock data storage, flight data storage, account opening without judicial decision, account register, fingerprints, the collection of IP addresses, and finally the abolition of cash: Are the next steps to abolish the inviolability of the property and the secret of the letter of the Constitutional Law of 1867 on the grounds that terrorism threatens, or that the so-called empires should be asked to pay for the cash? My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, in this proposal some wordings may not be very happy, but we shall nevertheless be supporting this motion for a resolution. The visions from George Orwell’s novel “1884” – apologies, “1984” – have long since occurred – such as the new word that has long since entered our brains. [[Abg. Wheeler: Ah go!]] [[Abg. Mr Matznetter: ‘1984’, Mr Cot!]] We have already reached the next stage of a surveillance state. We are at the stage of the so-called “Tribute of Panem” in which each year a new victim is found in the form of a certain population to satisfy the greed of the state. What we need, ladies and gentlemen, is a glass state – and not the glass citizen.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e7581	Mr Hable came next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e7602	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! High house! Estimated citizens! Transparency is a daughter of democracy; we have always emphasized NEOS here in the House. But it seems that we have to explain what transparency is meant by this. It is the transparency of the state, which is the daughter of democracy, not the transparency of citizens! The transparency of citizens, of glass citizens – this is the way to the surveillance state. What we need is transparency, yes: but transparency of the state! That is what we think, and there is a misunderstanding. But perhaps it is not a misunderstanding, but simply a different attitude. This attitude – and this squeaker to the investigation committee, to the Hypo-U committee, I must already make – is also noted there: There we are confronted with a federal government, the files are blackened in old manners, which classifies massive documents, i.e. declared secret. That is the way in which the Federal Government provides documents to the Parliamentary Examining Committee – and that is what sets out the ground! This puts the floor to the barrel, because this same federal government, which does not provide this transparency to the committee of inquiry, is the one who now wants to look into the accounts with the citizens – into the accounts and thus into the privacy. Mr Auer says that surveillance cameras are great anyway and are suitable to fight crime. Yes, you're right – but surveillance cameras that are in the public space, not surveillance cameras in the living room and in the bedroom! That's where it goes, though, when you want to look into the accounts, because in the account private life is documented – and there you want to look! Mr Klubobmann Arbitrators say, well, it would only affect entrepreneurs. - Wrong! It is not only the entrepreneurs concerned. And apart from that: Entrepreneurs too deserve fundamental rights, that should be clear! But apart from this ‘littleness’, Mr Klubobmann Schieder, everyone is, of course, affected, including the workers. All accounts are looked in! The biggest back-salto in this whole discussion – and I have to say that clearly – but the greens have laid down. Mr Rossmann, also Mr Steinhauser, if you are now acting as a defender of the rule of law, then that is really something of an unbelievable! [[Abg. Steinhauser: We always were!]] They were the ones who had no eye to the legal protection at all. [[Calls to the Greens.]] They have been those who want to give the government the constitutional majority so that they can look into the accounts. Only when this issue has been raised by NEOS, and only when you have noticed what emotions it causes in the population that are to be looked into the private accounts – well, surprise, clearly triggers the emotions! – only then did you start rowing back. Only then did you nebulously talk about a legal protection officer and not say that he did not control it in advance, but only afterwards. Only then have you, jumping back and forth, spoken of any judicial decision. Say openly and honestly that this was not your invention: At the very beginning, there was zero legal protection! [[Calls to the Greens.]] If you are moving there to give up our pressure and the legitimate pressure of the citizens outside and to demand judicial protection, then it is positive to see, but we will be very careful to see if you are actually doing so. [[Abg. Rossmann: You shouldn’t just read the “Kronen Zeitung”!]] If you are all talking about the fight against tax evasion, I also say: Yes, of course! No one closes the fight against tax evasion. Only: The purpose does not sanctify the means. What you are doing here – insight into the private accounts without a judicial decision – is based precisely on this kind of policy: The purpose sanctifies the means. And that is the end of fundamental rights, that is the end of states of law! And this, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, you have to please yourself here in this discussion. [[Calls to the Greens.]] What we need here, Minister of Finance – and I am finally coming to you – is not, as has been said, the transparency of citizens. What we need is the transparency of the state! What we need is the transparency of the state's assets: What we need is a proper, modern accounting system, because only such accounting allows for accountability to be held, and only accountability allows democracy to work. That is why we need the Single Accounting Regulation. You sent these on your way. However, the discussions that are being held here with the countries do not suggest anything good. Mr Finanzminister, I can only tell you at the end of the day: Please direct these cameras to the accounts of the state, because the accounts of the state need transparency, not the accounts of the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e7681	Mr Katzian. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e7703	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! When you listen to the last speaker and the whole debate this afternoon, you have the feeling that some people with cameras are running into the people's living rooms and sniffing and filming everything there. In reality, however, it is absolutely ridiculous what was given by itself and how it was argued here. I think it has also become clear from the discussion this afternoon what it is really about. On the one hand, it concerns the financing of the tax reform. With regard to the financing of the tax reform, a focus has been placed on combating fraud, and we have now reached the level of declines: We are in the legal implementation of this political agreement. Well, this is the case with every political agreement: If some have not gotten through with all the points, you try a little bit there and there, and it comes to the suggestion of all possible arguments to achieve the goal in the end. But quite honestly: This urgent today was a special class belly spot because we are in the middle of the process of finalising these laws. The Minister of Finance has clearly explained this to you. There has been a template, it has been sent for review. In the review, the various institutions invited to submit their opinions. It will now be brought into play, and it will come into Parliament. Why you have to perform a circus like this today is not clear to me. I have a suspicion of why this is so, and I would also like to express it, but of course one has to go into one point or another of the debate again. I want to do that now. First: This whole issue, that everyone is suspected of being, and as examples, the banking secret and the register obligation – ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, you really have to let this go on your tongue! What is it about the registration obligation? – That’s why all these dizzy bills we get now and are not invoices where ‘table bill’, ‘interim invoice’ or ‘others’ are real invoices, which are also verifiable! Whoever speaks of the chief state today, who is talking about general suspicion, is really about making a business model based on fraud and tax evasion saloonable! We can't do that. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we will never give our consent to this. That is why it is perfectly clear that it is necessary to bring to tax payment those who are obliged to pay taxes here too! Each employee, each employee, in full transparency at the beginning of the month, will be deducted more tax, social security and others. Everyone knows. About the employee you know everything – and others have the opportunity to judge it! With different possibilities... [[Abg. Miel-Risinger: Stop it! Every businessman is looking for it? Or what is that? What does that mean?]] No, I didn't say that. They do just as if we did not have a tax evasion in the country. Then I ask you, of course: How, then, can the colleagues at the financial offices say that we only need the opportunity? – If we make an audit today and find out during the audit, certain amounts have been transferred to an account, and the colleagues from the financial sector then ask: Can we look at that?, they get the answer: Private account, unfortunately, is not possible! – Quasi: Get over the houses! - I can't do that! In reality, it is only about creating the possibility of dealing with inconsistencies. A normal worker, to whom everything is deducted, has nothing to fear at all! They represent it as if everyone is going somewhere with the camera and sniffing and thumping around. That is absolutely not the case! Therefore, it is perfectly clear: Things need to be implemented! It's extremely time-consuming and, in fact, disgraceful that we're only doing it now. But now we do it, and we will implement it together. Yes, the ÖGB and the Chamber of Workers have also submitted their comments in the course of the review. I assume that we will implement it on the basis of the Council of Ministers' presentation. I would like to do that and we will also work for it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e7745	Mr Pilz has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e7767	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, two applications. The first request is from Mr Steinhauser. He explained him himself. I read it to him: [[Quoted print version removed]] I also say very briefly why it was necessary to make this request from our side to and for itself: Because the application of Team Stronach and NEOS is the exact opposite! That's where we wanted at least clarity from our side. Secondly, I would like to put in place a more comprehensive motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Pilz, Mr Steinhauser, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, which I am just explaining in principle. I think it is very important that we talk today about what the surveillance state is fighting and protecting citizens really means, in Austria and in Europe, what that means in legislation, what that means in control, what it means in parliamentary control, and what that means in criminal proceedings. I also tell you why this is so important to me and why it is so important to us: Because today we have a debate about a very small section of data protection. NEOS and Team Stronach want us to discuss today's data protection of tax evasion suspects. I think it is right because tax fraud suspects also have the right to data protection. But please do not pretend, ladies and gentlemen of Team Stronach and NEOS, as if the tax evasion suspects were the majority of the population of the Republic of Austria! That's absurd and ridiculous. [[Abg. You're doing that!]] This is a general suspicion, and this is a real insolence to all people in this Republic who honestly pay their taxes and, if they are workers, have no possibilities such as large-scale parties. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] There is a huge difference, and on this difference we place very, very great value. Federal Minister! The ORF "Teletext" also notes: ‘Finanzminister Schelling makes further concessions (...). A legal protection officer or a ‘judicial body’ would be provided. They're moving! In the present situation of the debate, I think this is the right time, and I note on the part of the Green Group: They obviously move in the right direction. But so that this is quite clear – because in my areas of work I have had enough negative experience with it –: Forget the term “Law Guard”! He has not lost anything in this procedure, so it will not go. We need clear judicial control and judicial approval – without it! That is why we made a proposal, and I hope you will come closer to him: a separate Senate at the Bundesfinanzgericht! We also know rapid proceedings from our parliamentary conciliation procedure with the Constitutional Court. That will probably be possible in this case too. That's the rule of law! And we guarantee that the rule of law also applies to tax fraud suspects. Of course, especially for suspects in criminal proceedings, it is very important that all personal property rights apply. Now negotiations are under way, and now there have been two levels of negotiation: the negotiations by us Greens with the Federal Government, whether a law is in place, because our consent is necessary, because the liberals, who from the number in question would be able to agree to it in principle, and because Team Stronach or NEOS are not able to guarantee a constitutional majority from their number. And NEOS negotiate on a different level, namely with the Stronach team; this too is their good right. Just one thing I guarantee you: We will not negotiate with the Federal Government as badly as NEOS negotiated with the Stronach team. Of course, because as NEOS, if you have a single special meeting throughout the year – a single special session! – to give this special meeting to support a request from the Stronach team, in which little is proposed, under parliamentary control, but to introduce stock data storage, to collect fingerprints, to collect IP addresses, and then, for the Member Strolz, another Member must run out and make a request for the repair of this overall surveillance policy, if one had ever been against the storage of data – you could have really been able to save yourself today! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stroll]] [[Reciprocity of the speaker]] We would like to have you as a reliable partner in the fight against the surveillance state, but in general it is, I believe, failed – even after this experience – if we rely primarily on our greens themselves in Europe. We are in the process of organizing the defence against the surveillance state across Europe, and I can tell you that, fortunately, we are doing this quite successfully. While you are looking after data protection for tax evaders, we are fighting the American and German surveillance state, not only in the interests of Austrians, but at least in the European Union, Switzerland and in other countries. This is important because this is really about the data of the majority of the population: when calling, text sending, the Internet and, and, and. These are our priorities. We represent the interests, not a majority of the population, but the entire population of the Republic of Austria, and not just a small minority of the tax evasion and tax fraud suspects. Okay, we're setting different priorities. I attach great importance to the fact, Mr Strolz, that these differences become visible. You will sometimes ask yourself the question – for example at your present alliance with Team Stronach and Freedom Party – whether you do not tend to embrace the wrong trees politically. You should look at the political trees before you embrace them. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: This is a matter of jealousy!]] Today you have hugged wrong, and today you have to explain again that you are actually against data storage, that you are actually on our side and on the side of the rule of law. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] Welcome – when you come back, welcome to us! But we'll do it without you. We will successfully negotiate with the Federal Government full legal protection in banking secrecy and at the openings of accounts! Without that, there will be no green agreement. And I wish you, Mr Strolz, the next time you negotiate more successfully with the Stronach team. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e7874	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Pilz, which has just been tabled by Mr Albert Steinhauser, ladies and gentlemen, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e7952	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Pilz, which I have already distributed 20 minutes ago in the hall, is also sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e8072	Preliminary word reference: Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Strolz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e8093	Mr President. Estimated member of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, Mr Pilz, that jealousy is a very great thing, because we also work with others today – so we are happy to do it again, if you have good proposals, with the Green common thing! We have come here to the Hoge House to cooperate on matters. [[Calls to the Greens.]] If, as a green person, you have something left for trees, I am allowed to put up a tree for you, Mr Pilz: The fact that you still do not control the Rules of Procedure almost 30 years after entry into the House is a bit sad. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pillow.]] Of course, we also have a club demand. And today we have chosen the way, together with another group, to present a subject. What remains of this day? - First of all: We have been able to move the greens in the last three weeks and have decided today: No view of the account without a judicial decision! The Greens are established; we take you by word. [[Congratulations with NEOS and Team Stronach.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] We take you at the word, because you weren't always in the position. You were Flip-Flopper: 360-degree turnaround within 24 hours and then back again. We'll take you by the word. What has not succeeded today: The Minister of Finance is moving in the right direction, but he is not yet determined. He says he's either making a legal officer or a judicial body. [[Abg. Arbitrators: He has always said that!]] You're moving in the right direction, you're not fixed yet. Within three weeks, the ÖVP has achieved a 720 degree turnaround: [[Abg. Brosz: You don't agree?]] You're Flip Flop Flop Flipper, that's incredible! We will of course continue to keep you in the sweat box. We will not accept this. No view of the account without a judicial decision! We won't tolerate the general suspicion. One more thing to the Greens: I hope that what you have decided for you today will also be for freelancers, EPCs, small and medium-sized enterprises. Then: Eva Glavischnig, what you have done is that you say, well, with the entrepreneurs we may have to make a different arrangement, perhaps without a judicial decision – that will not be possible with us! [[Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek:... Instigation!]] We'll, of course, put our fingers in the wound whenever you go through this back door. We will take your shoes if you put the next flip flop, then you will have to dance barefoot.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e8185	Mr Hagen has spoken. Rest of the time of your club: 1 minute. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e8206	Mr President. High house! Mr Pilz, you know the saying: Hold the thief! So you have now come to mind when you were standing here before everyone, Mr Pilz, and you have been caught! This request, which you have now submitted, is the clear proof of a glaring grenade of the greens. They are the riser of the government in many things; I want only EMS and, and, address. This is the green party: The Prohibition Party is the Greens, and we know that. [[Rejoicing with the Greens]] Ladies and gentlemen, here you have exposed yourself! – Yes, you can laugh; that’s fact. You have been caught, Mr Pilz of the Greens, take note of this! [[Abg. Brosz: What do you want to tell us now?]] Perhaps one last word to our ex-college Marcus Franz and Georg Vetter: What I don't understand – ladies and gentlemen, I appreciate you personally as a human being, but I don't understand that – is that you are setting up such a line. Frank Stronach wanted to break this most corrupt system, and you're just going into this system! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen, these are the facts, and that is not understandable to me. If you had gone to the FPÖ, I would have understood – but not to the ÖVP!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e8267	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. [[Unrest at the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, may I now ask for peace and attention? . We come to a vote on several requests. First: (The sitting was suspended at 3 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.) Glass state instead of glass citizens’. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. Debates of the European Parliament Meinl-Reisinger, colleagues and colleagues on the transparent conduct of the public sector. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. – This, in turn, is the minority. Rejected. Debates of the European Parliament Alm, ladies and gentlemen, on a total monitoring account. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. – This is the minority. The application is also rejected. Debates of the European Parliament Whoever is for that, please give a sign. – This, in turn, is the minority. Rejected. Debates of the European Parliament Steinhauser, colleagues and colleagues on general rejection of the collection of fingerprints and IP addresses in the Financial Criminal Law as well as storage of stock data. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Pilz, colleagues, on the comprehensive stop of the surveillance state. Whoever is for that, please give a sign. – This, in turn, is the minority. Rejected. [[16:25:37]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2015-06-08-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00077_d7e8382	I am still announcing that self-employed applications 1193/A(E) to 1201/A(E) have been tabled at today's meeting. Questions 5308/J to 5312/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations will be convened at 16.26 a.m., which is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
