ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e9816	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! I wish you a nice good morning and open the 61. Meeting of the National Council. The official protocols of 59 and 60. Meeting of 21 March 1991 In January 2015, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. Deputies of Kirchgatterer, Lipitsch, Mag. Ovenauer, Dipl.-Ing. Deimek, Ing. Hackl, Mag. Haider, Dr. Hübner, Jannach, Dr. Moser, Mag. Musiol and Mag. Honey. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e9847	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government who are present in another Member State of the European Union has made the following communication: The Federal Minister for Justice Dr. Wolfgang Brandstetter is represented by the Federal Minister for Finance Dr. Johann Georg Schelling. I announce that this meeting will be broadcast live from ORF 2 to 1 p.m. and from ORF III. I welcome the Federal Minister for Labour, Social Affairs and Consumer Protection Rudolf Hundstorfer. [[09:06:39]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e9895	We arrive at the current hour with the theme: ‘Employment 50+: How Austria goes into retirement later” First of all, Mr Klubobmann Mag has spoken. Arbitrator. I give it to you and draw attention to the fact that the speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e9922	Good morning, Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! ‘Employment 50+: As Austria goes into retirement later on” is a politically important issue, but at the same time delicate one, when we have the political and social goal that people can stay longer in the work process, that ladies and gentlemen in the advanced age have the opportunity to stay in the work process and to stay active in their work. At the same time, however, we also have the social objective of maintaining health, which is particularly important and important in this age segment, because we also want healthy workers. We also know that work is one of the identifying features of social life. She gives her identity. It is also essential for social contacts to be in a working relationship. Finally, we must not underestimate the fact that the older generation, in particular, brings a great deal of know-how as it is so beautiful, or, as you can say, brings with it experience, which in particular also brings substantial benefits to businesses. In the government programme, the Austrian Federal Government has also dealt intensively with this issue and has stated that there are several objectives, namely to advance the increase in the actual retirement age and the employment rate of older people according to a common path and timetable. The target parameters are that the actual retirement age should rise from 58.4 years in 2012 to 60.1 years in 2018, that the employment rate of men aged 55 to 59 should increase from 68.1 percent to 74.6 percent in 2018, that of men aged 60 to 64 to 35.3 percent in 2018, and that the employment rate of women in the age group should rise from 55 to 59 to 62.9 percent. It is important to take into account both parameters in the discussion – if one is seriously discussing how to achieve that Austrians will later retire – that we not only discuss the question of age and annual figures, but also the employment rate. First of all, the employment rate is an essential prerequisite for the financial balance and security of the pension system, and secondly, it is also a parameter which brings economic and economic fairness into the debate, because it is no good for us to specify in the law higher age of arrival if the jobs are not available at the same time. We therefore have two sides of the medal in this area, namely the side of the labour market, the job offer and the employer who must or must be willing to employ workers longer, and the side of workers who naturally need incentives to stay in employment and not retire. In this context, the issue of women's retirement age is always discussed. This concerns the question of the lower or later legal alignment of the retirement age for women, which has a social reason, namely that women in our societies, especially in working and working life, are not sufficiently equal. Equal pay for equal work is an important requirement, but it is still not fully implemented, and the burden of family work is still not equally distributed in our society. [[Abg. New builder: For 50 years we have heard this!]] That is why I also reject the fact that there is a constant debate on raising the retirement age for women as a saving measure. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If economic researchers believe we have to assume that the state can save a lot, then this is a wrong view that we reject. A few more figures to get statistics to speak here as well: The number of employed persons over 50 years of age has increased by almost 40,000 people and by around 5 percent. There are several reasons for this, for which, of course, the measures on the labour market, the birth-like years in this age group, but also the actual longer stay on the labour market. A total of about 30 000 over 50 years of age received employment promotion from the AMS in 2014, which is about a quarter – about 5 700 people – more than in the previous year. We also see, therefore, that the measures adopted by the Social Minister and the labour market service are increasingly being adopted and their impact is unfolding. I have already talked about employment rates: In the 50+ group, the employment rate is constantly increasing. By the way, the largest increase is in women aged 55 to 59 – where the employment rate is the highest – and in men aged 60 to 64, the employment rate also increases sharply. Nevertheless, this increase in the employment rate – and that is what we must say – is not yet in line with the objective we have set ourselves in the government programme by 2018. It must also be said that the economic situation, which unfortunately has worsened since the preparation of the government programme, has been particularly affected by this crisis on the labour market. Therefore, employment policy and labour market policy are generally important issues in the crisis, especially when talking about how our retirement age can increase. It must not be forgotten that it is easy to talk about it in an employment policy and economic policy situation, but it is very difficult to achieve success, because, of course, an economically tense situation unfortunately affects the labour market. We also see that the unemployment rate is, unfortunately, rising with increasing age. For the over 60s, it is almost twice as high as the average unemployment rate. We see, therefore, that the situation in the labour market at the beginning and end of the working life – that is, the young and the old – is particularly difficult and that this is a major challenge. At the same time, we have the obligation to make the budget available in order to counter labour market specific measures. The European comparison shows that much is happening in Austria and that we are still better than in many other areas. Finally, a second detailed look: Especially when you talk about how to achieve that people can retire later or stay longer in the work process, you also need to analyze and look at the individual industries. Here we see that the situation is very different from one sector to another: In the hospitality sector and in the social and health care sectors, people are retired younger. We have to ask what employment conditions these are and what is the reason why these people are very often affected by health in such a way that they can no longer be employed. At this point, I think, once again a detailed view is necessary. The most important, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Federal Minister – I believe that this issue is in your hands outstanding – is: It is not about numbers, it is not about single months, it is not about percentages and quotas, it is ultimately about people in our country. Behind each of these figures are human, individual fates, and we know that this is very often ignored in the political debate. There are a lot of people who say: I don't understand why I'm being sentenced in the debate. I do not want to be part of the old iron yet, I would like to do another job, I want to go to work, but I do not get the job! The company has strongly advised me that I should retire! – These are the mechanisms that we also need to understand, namely that people are very often twice affected by fate. This must not be forgotten by looking at the statistics and talking about what it is all about. There are people behind that, and that is why the political approach must also be in the individual destiny. I am sure, Minister, that this matter is in good hands with you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e9969	Mr Hundstorfer spoke on a preliminary opinion. Mr Federal Minister, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that your speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e9990	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning! I would like to tell you that since Thursday last week, employment, rehabilitation and pension monitoring has been open to you – it has been published accordingly. This monitoring shows developments in which we can say with Fug and Recht: We have structural successes, we are on the right path. The retirement age has increased by 13 months, total to 59 years and 8 months. If one calculates the invalidity pensions, which are, of course, very often used very early, the Austrian men retired last year at 63 years and 3 months, the Austrian women aged 59 and 9 months. Overall, we have a very encouraging development: We have 15 per cent fewer I-pension requests, we have 13 per cent less pension recognition, and we have a minus of 17 per cent, especially in the recognition of invalidity pension. Even if we look at the absolute figures, we are in a gratifying development, because we have less new rehabilitation pensioners than the minus in invalidity pensions. That means we're on the right track. The reforms that we have launched and which have not always been easy – whether in the corridor, long-term insurance or temporary invalidity pension – have an effect. It's clear: The retirement age must continue to rise, but in addition to that already carried out by Mr. Klubobmann Schieder, we also need the support of the economy, the support of businesses. The employment rate of the age group 50+ is increasing, unfortunately it is also increasing its unemployment, but we also have enormously high dynamics in this age group. We have a very high dynamic, which I also stand at. At least last year, 110 000 people over 50 years of age have taken up new jobs. 22,000 have changed their job directly, some 60 000 have been assigned by the AMS, and 28 000 have taken up a job after a break – this break can mean sick leave but also have other reasons – once again. In total, these are 110 000 people. Of the currently 105 000 elderly unemployed, 50+ have 37 000 massive problems to return to the labour market, and unfortunately are very often unemployed for a long time. But with our “Employment Initiative 50+”, we have been able to make a contribution here: A total of 16 000 older unemployed people have made the return to the labour market. First evaluations have shown that the programme is very likely to be self-esteem, what we are investing in comes back from people's employment, through the saved benefits of unemployment benefit, emergency aid, and there are additional wage tax revenue. That is why we need even more employment for the 50+ to achieve our targets. You know, we have defined targets in the government programme, and I do not want to say that we still have a lot to do with the group of men between 60 and 64 in order to achieve these targets. For women it looks a little better, here is the target group 55 to 59, there we are a little better, but also not where we want to be. Here too, we need to put forth even more effort. I know, of course, that there is also a debate about rehabilitation money. Last year we had 3 400 new accesses to the rehabilitation fee. New entrants, that is, they had a normal job before, and then came into rehabilitation due to their illness. One must also say an open word about the diseases, and it is necessary and important to continue here: 58 percent of the women concerned have mental diseases as the reason for the rehabilitation, and the male population is 54 percent. This means that we have to get started earlier, and I hope that through the activities around “fit2work”, which are getting better and better, the situation will get even better and we will be coming to people even faster in the future. By changing the system, we have obtained 8 400 persons who previously had a temporary invalidity pension and have now fallen out of the area for the benefit of the benefits. I know there is a debate about whether these people should be pensioners or not. And here I put the question very openly: Find it right that we want to help young people, whom we want to re-school with rehabilitation money, who we want to give a new feeling of life, that we are telling these young people: You're a pensioner!Unknown term type: "%s".? Do you really think that's right? I can only invite all of you to hold this debate in peace for yourself, but rehabilitation money is rehabilitation money, and rehabilitation money is not a pension, I would like to say quite clearly here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is clear that the costs are. This is perfectly clear to me, and we have decided in Austria to address this cost question on the pension system. In other countries of the world, this question of health insurance costs will be dealt with. If you compare our costs with the costs of other countries, I can only invite you here for objectivity and overall consideration. We have decided in Austria not to charge pension-related benefits via pension insurance. We have decided to charge the compensation allowance, which is a classical social aid, via the pension system. We decided not to finance the additional health insurance contributions for pensioners through the health insurance schemes, but to make a contribution from the pension system for the health insurance companies. We also decided to finance the federal contribution for part-insurers, the partner benefit for farmers and self-employed, as well as the cost of rehabilitation not through health insurance, but through the pension system. These are decisions that have been made here in the history of this House, partly already in 1956, partly even earlier, which were the will of Parliament, not always all parties, but the majority. The fact is that this is a historical development, and I can only ask and ask you here when we talk about what our system costs and try to compare our figures with those of other countries always to count everything. There is no disability pension in Sweden, there is no disability pension in Denmark, there are all the agents working out health insurance – work out according to the methods, according to the models these countries have. If you look at the real pension costs in Austria, we have real pension costs of only 4.3 billion and not 10 billion. Finally, I would also like to say a word on the automatic pension system. It is said very often: If we make an automatic one, then all the problems are solved! There is no country in the world, no country in the world where there is an automatic entry age. You will not find any country in the world where there is an automatic move of the age of arrival, none! Then: How do you plan a business? And there are good reasons why there is no automatic access age. The automatisms that are made in some countries are always financial automation, but never regarding the age of entry. You probably have a legal age in Sweden, and this legal age of entry is the same as it is. [[Abg. Stroll: But as a reference!]] – No, please take a look at this, go through it! And I'll be right there to Sweden. Sweden has an automatic pension scheme, they do. So, what does this automatic mean for the pension level? – The automatic pension scheme means that since 2009, since the height of the economic and financial crisis, Sweden has had to intervene in automation five times in order to avoid poverty, and this five-time intervention has been made through the tax system and costs the Swedish state in the meantime additional 2 billion per year. And if you compare the effective costs of the countries, please count on that, because these tax losses are quite simply there. As a result, it is quite clear that automation does not really do anything, because it is very likely that Parliament also had to intervene in order to avoid poverty of old age. [[Abg. Stroll: That's okay, that's what we're here for!]] And there is a hundred times preferable to me our system, which is open and transparent through the pension account, through the payment system, an open, transparent system where at the end of the National Council, politics decides what the pension adjustment looks like in the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strolz: Average age 64 in Sweden! Six years higher average age!]] Now we come to your average age. Do you know a widow's pension in Sweden? – The widow's pension in Sweden was abolished in 1990. Do you know an invalidity pension? – It was abolished in 2003. And, and, and so. This is all about social assistance, and you know it very well, honourable Members. Add to this the cost of social assistance, then you will expect our system to be cheaper and more efficient, because in Sweden the social rate is 2 percent higher than in Austria! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e10068	Thank you, Minister of State. I draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other participants at the current hour according to § 97a Abs. 6 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 5 minutes. Mr Muchitsch is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e10097	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank you for the opportunity today to debate at the current hour how we can manage to keep older workers, i.e. 50+, in employment longer. We will only succeed in doing so, ladies and gentlemen, if all those who can contribute to this will and must actually make a contribution. And this starts with the people concerned themselves – I'll go in later on – because no one wants to escape early in retirement if the amount of invalidity pension is such a low. It is a question of policy by setting out measures and creating framework conditions, and, of course, of course, the economy that we need as a partner in this issue. The fact is: It has succeeded in increasing the actual retirement age. Like Mr. Hundstorfer and Mr. Klubobmann We have already said that there is a little more inside, and we can get even better when it comes to increasing the actual retirement age, where it is healthy. This means that we have to distinguish very clearly between the professional groups and the industries. However, we certainly do not succeed in increasing the actual retirement age when we are afraid and people are insecure by signaling that we are increasing the statutory retirement age, or when we demand a pension automatic or take away the trust protection from the person concerned by saying: You will have to work longer, we will force you to do so by law! Or: We increase the statutory age of women's retirement considerably earlier in stages! We certainly can't do that unless you want to cut down pensions. If you want to shorten pensions, you have to say: Yes, we want a pension automatic, yes, we want to increase the statutory retirement age! We are taking other measures, and these measures are known. We agree that there are changes to the Federal Procurement Act, since we want to have a bonus for the award criteria for the employment of older workers, not just younger workers. The fact is that we must be able to boost the economy, boost the economy in order to have more opportunities to employ older workers. Unfortunately, I have lost confidence that it is important for the economy to employ older workers – I tell you quite openly – because there are many, many examples where older workers are exchanged, so to speak, where they are replaced by other workers, often also from neighbouring countries, and therefore I really advocate a bonus malus system. [[Abg. Schwentner: May I ask how this should look?]] Such a bonus-malus system is really necessary, because none of those who have to retire early on do so voluntarily, simply because the pension levels at the new entrances in 2014 – you know these numbers – are very, very low. If a man has a pension amount of €123 brutto per month and a woman has a pension of €808 brutto per month, then this is really not a paradise where you say: I want to go there, I'm going to the pension, but there's more to the end of it: They are unable to stay in employment, they are no longer able to work in health. And each one of you knows cases where employees over 50 years of age are sending 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 80, 100 applications and not getting a job. That is why we are in favour of this bonus-malus system, because, as stated in the Coalition Agreement, it makes sense, on a proposal from the social partners, to relieve or reward companies that employ older workers, and to make a corresponding contribution to those who do not. I hope and expect that after the Economic Chamber elections there will be a good basis for discussion with our social partners and that this can also be implemented here. [[Abg. Schwentner: Then there are country elections!]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e10150	The next item is the speech by Mr Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e10171	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The fact is that in Austria we currently have a general problem on the labour market. But this is not just an Austrian problem, it is a European problem. The fact is, however, that despite our first successes in the pension system, we have an objective view of more than just a problem. Mr Muchich referred to the following points: We're going to meet the target. The goal definitely unites us, and the economy is always a partner. But it must be in everyone's interest that we come to success together, and it cannot be that it is always at the expense of the entrepreneurs. As an entrepreneurship representative and as an entrepreneur – these are those who constantly have to put in the beatings – I would like to say quite clearly that one in this current hour: The major problem is not the employment of older workers by businesses, as it is always presented, but the general labour market situation and, above all, the entire pension system. Entrepreneurships are always those who look at the fact that they are in business with each other, and are interested in the fact that the employees remain in the enterprises with their experience and with all their know-how. So I don't think there's any interest in sending older workers to retirement. The 2014 labour market statistics also show quite clearly. We have an increase in unemployment by around 32 000 compared to 2013, but we also have an increase of around 24 000 employees. And because the employment of older workers is always stressed: The fact is that on average unemployment has increased by 0.7 percent, but unemployment among older workers has been “only” – under quotations – by 0.6 percent. So it can be said that the initiatives for the employment of older workers have been successful and that the right common measures have been taken. Unfortunately, unemployment rates rise every month. However, we also have to say that we have a record of employment in parallel, and that is to say, entrepreneurs create jobs, and that is to say, thank you very much to the entrepreneurs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] They are the home companies, which are the largest employers in Austria with 2.7 million employees, and they contribute and see that this Austrian economic and labour engine is running. So much about the employment situation, which is certainly not going to improve, if we are constantly – and I would like to say so – hacking around on entrepreneurs and businesses and demanding new burdens and new punishments. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to say it quite clearly: A penalty has not yet created a single job. We need – and the goal unites us, and I say that quite clearly – healthy and motivated employees, and there we are on a good path. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: There is also a responsibility!]] Many well-known experts say, however, that not the labour market alone is the problem, but we also have problems in the pension system. Minister Hundstorfer has already said: There are first successes, but of course there is still a lot to do. We must note that only a minority of Austrians retire with the rule pension age and that there are still too many possibilities for early retirement. If you look at Allianz's 2014 study, we're unfortunately early pension European champions, and that's a dubious title. [[Abg. Schwentner: Yes, and why?]] As long as the pension system is not reformed, that is, even more consistently, the employment rate of older people will remain below the EU average and the budget will be increasingly burdened – and we must leave this way more determinedly! [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: The Minister shakes his head! He sees it differently!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I come to a very important point, namely that we should not discuss penalties or malus, but incentives for the employment of older workers. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Johannes Kopf, the dedicated chief of the labour market service, has recently brought it to the fore in the “Kurier”. In fact, he said to the programmes: “I expressly welcome all these initiatives. However, it would be wrong to expect too much of it. This will slow down unemployment, but it will still rise in 2015 and probably 2016.” The explanation for this is simple: “Austria is an export country and economically highly networked.” In this way, the domestic economy could not be evaded by the international to weak economy." In the example of tax reform, head – and this is very important – means: “The original goal was to relieve small and medium-sized incomes.” Tax reform will help increase domestic demand. However, this is about the goods of daily needs (). And the value-added of these products often happens abroad’ ( ). From a purely labour market perspective, a reduction in additional labour costs would probably be more favourable." [[Abg. Loacker: Chamber 2 away!]] “This would have stronger employment effects.” Ladies and gentlemen, I think nothing is added to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e10275	Next item is the report by Mr Dr. Kassinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e10296	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! We have now heard the attempt of a marketing event of SPÖ on the subject of 50+. I have been able to read out few specifics – many numbers, all subsumable under the title “Once again the world of beautiful speech”. I would like to limit myself to a number that are of real interest in Austria in these days, namely those of almost 500 000 unemployed. This is the number that is causing me concern, and the unemployment rate has almost exploded in recent years. I do not expect the so-called hidden unemployment to do so, because the fact is that the employment rate of between 55 and 65 years is disastrous in Austria, for example compared to Sweden: We have 40 percent in employment, the Sweden over 70 percent. There is an enormous increase of 14 percent in the 50+ range compared to last year and also for foreigners of almost 90 percent. This is not a natural disaster, which is totally unforeseen about us, but it is homemade, which is fully accountable by the government. This is the result of a long-standing policy of announcing, of nothingness, of looking away, of beautiful speech. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The process of these problems is always the same. First: The problems are already evident at an early stage. Secondly, The government does nothing, speaks things beautifully, insults those who show the problems, and ignores proposals for solutions, especially those of the opposition. Following Agenda items 1 to 9, we will hear from the Social Affairs section a variety of these proposals, which are simply rejected. At some point you get the bill presented, and that is the case now on the labour market. Moreover, this procedure also applies to other issues, such as Euro, ESM, Greece, TTIP, CETA – the problems are on the table, and you do not do anything about this either. We will also be presented with the invoice for this. The real problems are still not addressed. It is significant for Austria that we must wait for the Economic Chamber elections on this issue. The hat burns, and we have to wait for the business chamber elections – no one understands! What are the real problems that need to be addressed clearly? – There is much too much immigration into the labour market, especially less qualified – this does not create the economy, even if the number of jobs increases – and, subsequently, immigration into the social system. We have exploding costs in your department, Mr. Hundstorfer, because the number of unemployed is exploding because we do not have the pension system under control and the costs are rising rapidly. I was in the Committee on Budgets last week: In your area alone, Minister, there is €2.7 billion more expenditure than last year, €1.1 billion in budget excess. You can't talk about that. I would like to say: Whatever the case with this mini-tax reform, Minister Hundstorfer has already used 1.1 billion of this money – they are already gone! We have the problem of increasing black-and-collar work – you don't do anything. [[Interference of Federal Minister Hundstorfer.]] One may also discuss the efficiency and effectiveness of the labour market service, and – we have already heard it – the economy is burdened by much too high taxes and taxes. What's going to happen? – The industry as a motor of the economy is moving away, we already see this: The voestalpine builds works in America and China, only not in Austria. What are you doing about it? - Nothing! There is a lot of proposals, solutions and best-practice examples. With regard to 50+: Of course, you will always try to dissuade the Swedish model. The fact is that Sweden is much better able to integrate people over 50 years of age into the labour market. You can't discuss that away. As far as the cost-effectiveness of the whole system is concerned, I would give you the advice to look at Germany, where this is much better handled. As far as the protection of Austrian workers is concerned, I would ask you to accept and implement FPÖ proposals. Finally, I agree: They have long ceased representing the interests of the Austrian workers. In an increasingly complex and dynamic and globalised environment, however, that would be important. They have long ceased to take the concerns and fears of the Austrian workers seriously. I invite you to take up the counter-proof, but please with acts and facts and not with announcements and marketing events. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e10383	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Schwentner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e10405	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Dear spectators! I don't know how you're up there in the gallery, I can only tell you how I'm doing: I don't know exactly which event I'm at. It is said to be “current hour” and it should be about people 50+ on the labour market, but somehow I feel that we are now in the Chamber of Commerce campaign, as Mr Muchich has indicated. He said that perhaps we could talk about 50+ measures on the labour market after the economic chamber elections. I would like to point out that after the economic chamber elections the country elections are coming, then there will be another country elections, then there will be country elections, maybe then national elections will come, and it will continue and continue – then we will be in the third year of this government, and in fact you – at least in the social field – have not yet implemented anything of what is contained in the government agreement. I would like to hold this here at this current hour. As far as the unemployment of people is concerned – I think we all agree in that –: We want people not to get out of the sick, not to retire from unemployment, but to be able to work and work as long as they want, even work longer when it goes – but it doesn't work. We know that a third of the people do not retire directly from the job, but from different situations: from the sick, from the unemployed, or from women from another situation. Many women are simply at home, co-insured with their husband and waiting for the pension. That is, we are talking about a large number of people, and we should talk about it seriously. What I lack in this context is that I have not been able to find out what is actually planned – from you, Minister Hundstorfer, from the government, whether there is any agreement on the many issues that exist in relation to people 50+ on the labour market. We know that it is very difficult for jobs to find working conditions difficult. But we also know what we could most likely start with – I honestly don't know why we haven't done this for a long time: We could search through all the service regulations, collective agreements and any other business agreements that exist and see what there are in these obstacles that prevent people from working longer at all. Many want to work longer but cannot do so because of the various agreements. That is, we should go through everything, and I wonder why there is no support and why we do not look at it in all possible areas, which actually prevents people – men and women – from working longer, why they are taken out of their jobs so quickly, why many employers – for example, the city of Vienna – are happy when they can get away from women with 60. Can we please consider this together and then talk about other things, which are obviously also in the government agreement and which we do not know what is planned? Please explain to us how this looks with the bonus malus system, because I think that this is basically a right idea! It is good to try to create incentives – in the word “incentives”, Mr. Col. von der ÖVP, we are still meeting, namely incentives for workers to work longer. What must not be is that the promotion of businesses should be, or would not find our support if it were so planned. It is important, however, that entrepreneurs also recognize what they have in their business in quality through people over 50 who have experience and expertise that are good colleagues who can take on leadership responsibility. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. El Habbassi.]] All these are qualities that I would like to highlight because they are far too rarely mentioned. We are always only talking about the problems of the people 50+, but these people bring a lot of conditions for the labour market that are extremely important. What would interest me if we were already on this issue: What about the planned part-time pension or part-time pension, as it now stands? We could not find out what you were actually planning in this respect either. The specific situation of women has been raised by Mr Schieder, and I would like to point out once again: Please, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, there is no point in derogating from the intended path at the age of women's retirement – they hopefully do not – because we know that very, very many women do not retire from employment, but that they do not have jobs, and that this group in particular has the greatest difficulties in the labour market. [[Abg. Loacker: They don't do that anyway!]] In other words, we must ensure that jobs are promoted for women and that they are supported. Only then can we talk about their retirement until later, or is there still much to do, what all the contracts are going to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e10456	The next item is Mrs. Club Chairman Dietrich. Mrs Club Chairman, I wish you all the best for your new function and give you the floor. [[General acknowledgment]] - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e10486	Madam President. Estimated Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, thank you very much for the congratulations. I will bring myself, as far as I can, with my personality for the citizens and do my best to improve the situation for the state of Austria and for each individual. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The current hour deals with a very, very important topic: As Austria goes into retirement later. I have to ask, Minister Hundstorfer, are the Vienna officials not part of Austria? – When I see Vienna officials retired at 54,5 years of age, I think we need the highest level of action there. It cannot be that in Austria there is a two-class society in which one to 65 – many self-employed up to 67 and longer – must work, and on the other hand, a privileged shift continues to retire at 54 years. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This is a state that has been abolished. These are privileges that we need to begin with. We have so many privileges in the pension system, which are well-forested, and a fair system for all needs to be created. Mr. Minister, if we rightly complain today of the labour market situation, we must also say that these are only symptoms of a missing location policy. The reason for this situation is – and in this statistics right – that we lost more than 70 000 jobs between 2008 and 2012 due to the missing location policy – jobs that have migrated abroad. Turn the radio on: Company Voith, St. Pölten – again 150 jobs less, and so it goes day by day. What we need is a location policy that allows companies to recruit workers and boost the economy – and not so far a government that aims only to create new burdens and new taxes. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have 500 000 unemployed, is that just a number? – No, there are fates behind it: fates of family fathers who do not know how to finance the training of children; fates of young men who want to start a family and think about how to finance how to finance an apartment; Women wishing to be reintegrated into the work process; Women who are forced out of the labour market by young people – all single-sicksales. We don't forget either: Some 66 000 people are currently in re-training. That doesn't sound like much, but that's as much as the inhabitants of Wiener Neustadt and Baden together, that's a lot. These re-training measures, and also statistics, are not always the most targeted. There is also a need to focus on ensuring that more quality is imparted in the AMS. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Today we have heard on the subject of 50+ many times that this is the area in which many are too old for the labour market, but still too young for the pension. Nevertheless, I would have expected the President of the Chamber of Commerce Leitl, who now often speaks in the course of the business elections, not to send his employees, who are in the company for more than 25 years, home with a “golden handshake”. I would have expected the social partners to be an example in the employment of older people. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] My colleague Christoph Hagen has tabled a request on the subject of Executive 50+, which will only be pushed to the long bank. If the issue is serious to you, then we are negotiating these opposition requests and we are working together to be able to move something for the 50+ generation labour market situation. Minister Hundstorfer, you always compare Austria with the EU and say that we are the pre-schoolers. If we do not compare ourselves with the EU, we compare Austria with Austria! And that's where I tell you: We have the highest unemployment for 60 years, and you cannot be proud of it with God!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e10574	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e10595	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Appreciate audiences on the gallery and in front of the screens! “Employment 50+” is the theme of this current hour, and I think it is quite clear that the SPÖ is taking this topic now, 2015. Since 1970 we have experienced 14 different social ministers, 11 of them from SPÖ, and now, 2015, you are pretending to have invented the solution to how to deal with the employment of people over 50. [[Abg. Kickl: They can't talk about the rich tax anymore!]] I suggest to you that you are not about reforms at all, but that, when you look at social policy, you consider what you need to do in order to maximise the retention of power. Unfortunately, these are not reforms, and that is why nothing happens, as Mr Schwentner said earlier correctly. Nothing will be implemented by the reforms you have written beautifully in the government programme. Let us look at where the SPÖ is responsible and where it could do something for the employment of people over 50: for example at the Austrian Post. There, 0.5 percent of pension claims are made at the regular retirement age – 48.9 percent are due to incapacity for service, says the Court of Auditors. Let's look at the ÖBB: There 3.9 percent of employees go to the regular retirement age in retirement, 41.7 percent due to incapacity for service. That is to say, the inability of SPÖ to keep people in employment where it itself has the say. Before looking forward to the right, we look at the state teachers in Upper Austria, who go to the regular board to 1.1 percent, the federal teachers on the other hand to 15 percent, as it looks a little better. [[the speaker looks towards ÖVP]] So where You have the saying, it's particularly dark. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] The Federal Minister complained about the automatic, that it is so terrible when a pension automatic comes when the pension system automatically adapts to demographic changes. – Yes, this is bad, because then social democracy and the ÖVP can no longer distribute political gifts, then the system essentially regulates itself, and politicians only need to make small corrections and do not become unpopular because they change the system. [[Interference of Federal Minister Hundstorfer]] It would be safe. You do not want this automaticism, Mr Minister. But what you do not say is that you want another automation very well, namely that automation that always pays the boys. The next generations always pay. That's automatic, and that's right for you. But that the system automatically adapts, you don't want that. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Kogler: Are those who have died to pay for the boys?]] In reality, the system must reflect an appreciation of the work of older people. This appreciation must also be reflected in the pension system in such a way that longer work is worthwhile. We can support this by flexibilizing the pension approach. With the pension account, there is a good condition for people to have in mind how much they will get. And then we dynamic the whole thing, put it in the individual's own responsibility when he retires. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Other countries are going to do it. I think Sweden has a good model, even if you have spoken badly today. One could lock eyes and ears and see in other countries what there is. The fact that the Austrian system is not a successful one repeatedly underlines the figures. Mr Haubner, I would like to say one more thing to Mr Haubner – unfortunately he cannot hear me now because he is not in the hall; thank you, Mr Wöginger, you are directing it to him: [[Abg. Wöginger: I'm telling him!]] The ÖVP has been in the government for 28 years, so I was very surprised by the opposition speech by Mr Haubner. [[Abg. Wöginger: Thank God, otherwise you wouldn't be so good!]] If he demands that the additional wage costs be reduced, I ask what ÖVP has done over the last 28 years. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] And I say to Mr Wirtschaftsbunder: If you remove the chamber cover 2, then you have a direct relief of the additional wage costs! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e10741	Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e10763	Madam President. Estimated Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate Seers and Advisors! Mr Loacker, the Social Democratic Social Ministers you have referred to, and the whole social democracy has always been about making a responsible social policy. For me, that means securing the so-called risks of life. Risks of life are for me sickness, unemployment and also age, Mr Loacker. I mean, Social Democratic Social Ministers have proved that they are very responsible in this respect, especially Mr. Hundstorfer, who, especially in times of high unemployment, takes labour market policies and takes a lot of money to help every unemployed person back to the labour market. I think we all know how much money there is in labour market policy. And I think it is not quite right, Mr Loacker, to say that we are not Think about it because we think we have found the solution anyway, because you know with how much emphasis and how much commitment we are working in this area. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is important to ensure social systems, and this, of course, also applies to the pension system we are talking about today. On the part of social democracy, it is important to maintain the solidarity of the pension system, that of the pension system which builds on the generation contract and not, Mr Loacker, on a pension automatic which you have referred to. We do not want machines to decide whether the retirement age will be increased or how the pension will develop. I think that's not what people in Austria deserve. People should not be unsure, but policies should decide how the pension system will develop over the next few years and decades. Of course, there is always a need to keep in mind demographic development, which is no question at all, and we do so very responsibly. On the other hand, on the other hand, I am convinced that it is particularly important to look at the employment rates over and over again, because it is also about having high employment rates so that money can also come into the system so that pensions can be secured in a sustainable manner. In this respect, ladies and gentlemen, we are all required. On the one hand, companies are, of course, required to offer jobs – this has already been addressed a few times today – and on the other hand, it is of course also important for workers to want to stay in the job longer or to stay in the job. I am convinced that it is not the aim of people to think more about their pension from the age of 45 onwards. I just don't think so! I think people want to make a contribution. And it is also not desirable to go to retirement at the end of a professional life into unemployment and then from unemployment. I don't think that's what you want. We've heard today: A third of the people are retired from unemployment. I mean, you also have to work to ensure that this doesn't happen and you don't get a little bit of self-esteem at the end of a working life – as I want to say now. And here, as I have already mentioned, both are asking to work on it, both companies and workers. As I have already mentioned, appropriate employment rates are particularly important from my point of view, because then money comes into the system so that pensions can actually be secured in a sustainable manner. From my point of view, a number of reforms have been implemented since the 1980s. That has already been mentioned today. For example, I would like to remind you of life throughput or of the very long-term but already noticeable equality of civil servants' pensions with the other types of pension. I recall the reform of the I-pension, and I also recall the increase in early retirement payments. I know, ladies and gentlemen, that all these measures are sometimes very painful for those concerned. The fact that they have been taken, however, Mr Loacker, points out very well that we do not only think in election cycles, but that we are actually trying to maintain the solidarity pension system, based on the generation agreement, even in the future. This is the first time we've And these measures have also been implemented very successfully by Federal Minister Hundstorfer in recent years. A few thoughts still about the age of women's retirement, because this is always discussed and is almost presented as an all-healing remedy, as if this would solve the problems in the pension market – if I could say so now. It has already been mentioned: The different retirement age of women and men has a social reason. I am convinced that the different loads between women and men, whether by family work, childcare or also care in the old age sector, have not yet been eliminated by a hundred percent, and therefore early raising of the age of women's pension is not the right answer. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We must first see that these inequalities will be eliminated, and as you know, from 2024 until 2033, the retirement age will be raised. There too, as I mean, the Federal Government has done its homework. I'm appealing to everyone: If we turn away from the automatic pension system, we decide together how we can keep people in the job for a longer time, and together we secure our solidarity pension system!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e10848	The next item is the speech by Mr Wöginger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e10869	Madam President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Before I devote myself to generation 50+, I would like to lose a few general words on the subject of labour market, because it is important overall and, of course, is a challenge in Austria to face this difficult situation. The situation is strange: On the one hand, the number of people employed is increasing, some 20,000 people are also in employment per year, but there are also about 30 000 people who become unemployed. – This is a difficult dynamic, and this phenomenon shows itself not only in Austria but throughout Europe. So, of course, there is a need for action in this direction, and we have already decided on this in Parliament, and I would like to point out that, for example, the €370 million labour market package, which includes integration aid and combination wage models, which has enabled over 20,000 people over 50 to be re-integrated into the labour market. That is, ladies and gentlemen: The measures we have taken are quite clear. So we don't look away – no! - but we're looking at it. However, we cannot counteract the general development, combined with low economic growth, in such a way that we can accommodate all those who are additionally available to the labour market. Every unemployed person deserves our attention and support, that is not a question at all, especially those who actively cooperate themselves in finding a job again, and who want to do a job, ladies and gentlemen! These people deserve the support of politics. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But I would also like to stress: We MEPs are not the labour market service. We have a well-functioning system. You can always be better, but overall the system works well. 900 000 people per year AMS, 580 000 people were actively transferred back to the labour market last year. In other words, from my point of view, the situation of numbers and data is true, but we cannot rest on it, but there is still a need for action. Now to generation 50+: In this area, of course, there is a need to catch up on the employment rate. This increases and also takes the measures relating to the retirement age. Nevertheless, we have a challenge to face. - Why? Because this is a demographic question. The baby boomer years, i.e. those born in 1960, are now moving into this generation of 50+, and in the case of these baby boomers, unemployment is also increasing in the quantity, but not in the percentages compared to the previous year. We even have a slightly lower unemployment rate in the over 50s than in the overall comparison. The problem with this group is that these people have an extremely difficult time finding a job again or being re-introduced into the labour market. We also know these cases from our speeches. Over 50 years of age have been particularly difficult, and they also deserve the attention of politics, ladies and gentlemen. We must therefore make every effort to improve their situation. Yes, some measures are taken: 93 000 people over 50 years of age found their jobs again last year by means of the programmes we are offering. But thanks also to the entrepreneurs, ladies and gentlemen, for they are also willing to hire and take over these people, and this is ultimately crucial for the fact that people can really be reintegrated into the labour market. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Minister, I ask you this question too. – Yes, the way is right, but are these measures sufficient? Do we have sufficient sustainability in our system, including with regard to the retirement age? We agreed here at 60,1 years. We're almost 60 years old now, depending on how you calculate it. I'm quite open to this. I don't want to lie to myself with numbers. It's right: We are experiencing declines in long-term insured persons and I-pensions. And rehabilitation workers, Minister, are not pensioners, that's right! It raises the question, however, of which pot this is financed. If I speak to some 50-year-olds who receive rehabilitation fees, it is about whether these persons are being re-introduced into the labour market again. That is in the sense of these people, ladies and gentlemen, too. If we are talking about mental illness here, we must also be prepared to help those concerned in this context, including with compulsory rehabilitation in this area. After all, it is useless if these people sit in front of the white wall at home, so to speak, but we really need to rehabilitate them. There is a need for action in this area, ladies and gentlemen. Now also a word on the so-called pension automatic: Let's call it an adjustment factor! This doesn't have to be a cool or cold automatic machine, but we have to face up to the reality that life expectancy is rising and therefore, of course, the retirement age has to rise, ladies and gentlemen. We should not close our eyes before that. What is to be done from my point of view? . We should quickly introduce a partial pension and allow for a slow slip-out from working life, while developing this In addition, support is provided by the boost bonus. Incentives must be created to ensure that businesses also recruit older workers, ladies and gentlemen. This is the credo, and we should implement it in the next few months.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e10961	Next item is the report by Mr Neubauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e10982	Mr. Federal Minister! Madam President. I thought, when I came to the House today, that if there is a current hour at the beginning of the plenary session, we will actually learn some news from the Federal Minister, for example, about measures the Federal Government wants to put in place in order to finally address the really bad situation in the generation of 50+ or on the labour market. – But what we heard today from five speakers of the government groups was not up-to-date, ladies and gentlemen, but these were old hats and nothing else! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Muchich has tried to inform us very eerie of some thoughts about the labour market. But you cannot go here and blame the economy, my dear colleague, because on the one hand, people are being canceled, on the other hand, but no 50+ people are being hired! – This is a little too little for me, because the incentives and the framework conditions must be created by the Federal Government, and this has been missed in recent years, ladies and gentlemen. She just didn't do that! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If the economy is generally put down as described, I can give you some examples of how it looks where social democrats are ruling. The problem we have in Austria is that on the one hand, we have laws that massively burden the social system, but on the other hand we have laws that create more and more barriers to the economy. With regard to some of the laws that are antique, I should like to point out the following: For example, at the company RHI, members of the board receive foresights from € 450 000 to € 650 000. There, workers retire due to an antique legal regime of 52 years, and – you hear and marvel! – the costs of the special support are borne by the VAEB and the federal government must fully recover it. – This system must go bankrupt, ladies and gentlemen, if people with 52 years of age are allowed to retire and the Federation is still financially refunding this terrible measure! At Salinen AG, ladies and gentlemen, a certain social democrat named Hannes Androsch is the leading personality. At this company 1 069 employees were sent to pension. Hundreds of people were also sent to the post, the youngest being 39 years old. And when a 45-year-old didn't like it because he wanted to work, he had to go to the Constitutional Court to enforce his right to work. I congratulate this discreet and committed member of the post for putting it through! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] At Bank Austria, ladies and gentlemen, 800 people have been cut off. – All of this is socially democratically governed areas, and it’s just too cheap for me, ladies and gentlemen, if you just come here. produces and says that the economy alone is to blame that the system does not work! We have an increase rate of almost 14 percent among the unemployed in the 50+ generation, and we therefore have an incredible burden on the labour market as a whole. A question by the liberals in the Upper Austrian Landtag, ladies and gentlemen, has now been made clear that the figures of 472,000 unemployed people in Austria are not correct, published by Federal Minister Hundstorfer. Rather, the Social Democratic Councillor Jahn, in reply to her question, found that in Austria, apart from actual statistics, there are also 250 000 people in unemployment who are not consciously covered by statistics. Mr. Federal Minister, there would therefore be 720 000 people unemployed in Austria. That's a scandal! Why do it? You have nothing to do with this, and why are you hiding the numbers from the public? With this in mind, I call for transparency from you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Thus, while there is an incredible situation on the labour market, the Court also reveals that it is in the Austrian National Bank as in ancient Rome. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, there are still the luxury pensions. It has been found that there is an average income of €98 000 and that, in addition, social benefits for 54 employees amount to €12.9 million a year! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Minister! If that's your redistribution in a social democratic way...
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e11051	Ladies and gentlemen, please come to the conclusion.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e11067	While you, Federal Minister, dream of the Reich tax, people become poorer every day by your policy! I'm trying to reverse!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e11094	The next item is Mrs Dr. Mückstein's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e11115	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Values listeners! All the time during this debate, I am thinking of the people I know from psychotherapist practice, who have big, huge problems in keeping their jobs or getting back into work from unemployment. – I fear these people will not feel understood by you! Yes, there are privileges in this age group, but also a much bigger problem, namely incredible hardness for older workers. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I find it not only needs jobs and healthy, motivated, self-optimized workers and employees, but above all needs healthy working conditions. The fact is that older people are still very often pushed out of the job. People often do not go out of work in retirement, but, as it were, move out of the sick or out of unemployment into the pension. Let's be honest: The crisis areas for older workers are to be found where there is a reduction in staff cuts and savings and where restructuring is being carried out. There are major problems. Yes, older people are under enormous pressure in such situations on the labour market. Assigned: Recently, a lot has been done against Mobbing and Burn-out. It has been clarified that occupational health promotion measures have been strengthened, and the duty of care of employers in particular has been stressed. But how do you help older workers, Mr Minister, if the employer himself is the one who mobbs? I would like to give you an example of psychotherapist practice: It is about a woman, 52 years old, single mother of two almost adult children in training, for 20 years in operation, until then well-healthed and highly appreciated; it is of course also one of the more expensive employees due to her long-term activity in this company. Half a year ago, the company was then taken over by a German group. This woman is being put to the side of a young employee. Since then, these two are constantly being played against each other. It is no longer directly communicated with this employee, but only via the young new employee. In the next room you make fun of her, so she can hear it right now. New name signs are placed – as by chance, their name does not occur, and so on and so on. She complains to her boss, who says: You've got to go through that! That's how she's getting more and more withdrawn. Then she gets to hear the accusation that she's too quiet and too introverted. The works council does not help her, because there is now an agreement with the management of the company, as the personnel reduction has to take place. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Incredible!]] You can imagine what happens: This very healthy woman, until recently, falls into a burn-out symptom in a really heavy expression, has since been in the state of illness and suffers from anxiety. And unfortunately this is not an individual case, but these cases have been massive in recent years. I believe that the bonus malus system promised by the Federal Government could help. I think it should come, but we haven't heard anything about it today. Those who cancel older workers should bear at least part of the costs incurred by this non-social behaviour. But that alone is not enough. I think that the social dimension of work needs to be much more taken into account. There should be operating agreements for burn-out and mobbing prevention. We need to design the workplace conditions that take into account individual wishes and needs of the workers. Stress factors, competitive and labour pressure must be reduced. Recognition culture must be promoted. And – I think that is very important – it would need internal consulting groups and, above all, the right for experts to be drawn from outside in the event of special company-related stress and crisis situations such as they happen when they are restructured or saved. Older people in the working world need not only beauty and employment programmes. They need above all our solidarity and our protection and an age-oriented design of the working world.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e11162	Next item is the report by Mr Ertlschweiger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e11183	Mrs Presi-dentin! Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen viewers! It is a fact that both the working world and the demands in the working world have changed dramatically over the past decades. Austria is not considered one of the most reformable countries, but unfortunately it has not participated in many of these developments, either because of lack of flexibility or because of party-political clientele thinking. The invoice is now presented to us, we have heard it today: 500,000 unemployed, 55 000 young people alone who are without a job. Getting Now They say: We have an economic crisis! – Of course, we have an economic crisis, but this economic crisis has only been a fire accelerator and has not originally been decisive for us to face these problems now. The problems would have come anyway. It is crucial that we finally begin to fight the cause and not always the effects. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The fact is: If we want to remain competitive, we must finally take up reforms and adapt to the changed conditions, even if this is painful. In order to maintain the competitiveness of our economy, it is urgently necessary that flexibility in the labour market also increases. Businesses are changing their requirements more and more quickly, and it is crucial for employees to adapt to these changing conditions, improve their qualifications and stay up to date, no matter how old they are. The magic word means lifelong learning. We've heard it today: The population structure shifts, there are more and more older people. It is also vital that the retirement age shifts backwards. At the moment, ladies and gentlemen, Austria is European champion of early pensions. Nowhere else do people go to pension earlier than we do: with an average of 58.6 years. In the sense of the Generational Treaty, this is not fair to today's youth. It's not fair, because anyone has to pay the token. If we want to maintain our pension system, we simply need a longer lifetime. That's a simple bill. In this sense, we also need to significantly improve the employment conditions of older people in the future. The palette ranges from health promotion on the one hand to the age-oriented work organisation on the other. Work helps people to stay physically and mentally active, to stay networked, to think networked. According to a French study shown to me by my colleague Marcus Franz, every additional year of work reduces Alzheimer's risk by 3 percent. This is not an essential aspect. The times in which one has worked for the same company for a lifetime belong to the past. It's no longer contemporary. The duration of the operation is becoming shorter and shorter. The identification of employees with the respective company is reduced. It is therefore necessary to provide incentives for both workers and employers to invest in and strengthen their training activities. In my opinion, three aspects are essential: Firstly, we must threaten labour market opportunities of low-qualified and long-term unemployment Increase people by continuing to invest more in training and mediation – we have already heard this today, keyword AMS. That's a good and right thing. Secondly, we must finally provide the labour market with the human capital that is so urgently demanded. We need to train people whose skills are also needed in the labour market. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Only in this way can we compensate for the shortage of skilled workers, and only the creativity and creativity of qualified professionals is the key to innovation. Last point: We must ensure that as broad a population as possible have equal opportunities for start-ups in the labour market. The educational content serves as the basis for lifelong learning, because only a well-founded general education, which already starts in early childhood, makes it easier to absorb and then process new knowledge in life, in working life. Our education system is, I stress the focus on education policy, geared towards mediocrity. There's a leveling down instead of up. If we want to rise on the labour market, ladies and gentlemen, then we must put the lever on education policy. Only innovation creates high-quality jobs. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] You don't have to be an expert to see that the current system doesn't work when 20,000 young people who can't read and write meaningfully leave school every year. These are the unemployed of tomorrow! These young people today are the unemployed of tomorrow! That's our big problem. We must give all stakeholders – both in the education and research and in the business sector – the opportunity to fully develop their potential. We must finally put the principle of performance in the foreground. The performance has to decide on success and failure. There is only one proof for the ability, ladies and gentlemen, to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e11275	The next item is the speech by Mr Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e11296	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If you are the last speaker to speak, you think you have to repeat a lot and actually not be able to put anything new on the tapet. We are talking about the dramatic development of people over 50, a total of 37 000 people who are hard to find a job again, as Mr Hundstorfer has also done. The proposal of the bonus malus system actually gets back into old patterns. The new we actually need is another mentality. We really need a mentality reform that deserves this name – because how should we entrepreneurs believe that the government is serious about promoting the elderly on the labour market when, at the same time, it adopts the people with a golden handshake in close-to-state businesses? How should we not want to do the same thing as an entrepreneur? We need exactly the reverse variant. We must arrive in a policy that deals with new working worlds, also with a more flexible working world for people 50+. That is what Mr Schieder is quite right about: You have to be serious about it. There are a lot of people who would like to work in old age. Madam President Bures has just won Mr Rudi, who at the age of 74 has still served us in the canteen. Yeah, they want to work. Many, however, are not allowed to work anymore because they are becoming too expensive. That is the basic problem. To this end, I have to point out something to Mr Muchich: You lose confidence in the companies. – Citizens and businesses lose confidence in the government. That's a serious difference! [[Congratulations with the NEOS and representatives of the Stronach team.]] If Mr Schieder thinks it is serious in this respect too, then he must also immerse himself in a new world of work for his group and not continue this scheme of 40, 50 years ago – as trade unions are organized, as social partners are organized – over the next 40 years. I think it's particularly important that you don't punish companies if they don't employ employees over 50. I imagine this in practice very difficult when companies in the valleys, especially tourism organisations – I come from tourism – do not find employees over 50 years old. Do you have to punish them because there are no jobseekers over 50? Do you punish them if there is no one or because of the immobility of those over 50 years old who cannot and do not want to drive from Salzburg to the Gasteinertal because they have their families in Salzburg? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] Dear colleague Matznetter! The problem is, we're talking about something and we don't know anything more. That would just have to be changed. Basically, it is quite easy to make it easier and fairer as a government for citizens, easier and more just for businesses – and then jobs are created on their own. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Matznetter]] I don't think it's responsible to have the tokens pay the workers over 50, but the tokens actually have to pay this government. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e11351	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e11372	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I don't want to charge the time, but there have been some statements that just can't stand in the room like that. Mr Neubauer, if you already call Salinen AG, if you also call the mining companies there, you also call the numbers! It is about 991 people; Point one. Point two: It's a run-out model. Point three: They know that the operation has to pay; as long as these people live, they have to pay 12.5 percent of the effort. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] This is the old mining process, and as a result it is not a privilege, but it is quite simply a run-out model that currently applies to 991 people. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: This is a privilege!]] It's getting less monthly because a few people die. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: This is a privilege!]] – That’s no privilege at all, excuse me! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] There's an old model out there. - Point one. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] Point two: Mr Neubauer, if you claim here that Bank Austria and UniCredit are related or married to social democracy, please learn history and see who the UniCredit really is! [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: What about the Sparkasse?]] Point three: the transparency of the figures. I can only recommend one thing: Talk to Mrs. Landesratin Jahn, she will be happy to confirm that she never said that or not at all. [[Abg. Neubauer: written answer!]] - Yes, then talk to her! In the meantime, we've cleared this up by phone. And if you quote here from a Court of Auditors report on the central bank, I would also like to ask: Tell me when this Court of Auditors report was written! ==References====External links== December 2012, and at the same time we adopted the Special Pension Restriction Act thereafter, in deep agreement with the President of the Court of Auditors, because the Court of Auditors was present at the time of the whole legislative process and is very likely to have contributed everywhere. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: There you were already ministers!]] The President of the Court of Auditors is not quite far from you, I believe. They did not have the size to vote in Parliament. [[Abg. Kickl: Learn story!]] You didn't have the size to ensure with a constitutional provision that people have 30 percent pension-minus, because that doesn't fit into your populism cult. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Call the FPÖ:Luxuspensionen!]] Mr Kassinger, excuse me for expecting something else from you. [[Abg. New builder: We expect that from you too!]] If you quote from the Budget Committee, please also quote the balanced invoice, then you will get away from the 1.1 billion € long ago. - Point one. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger.]] Point two: If you juggle with numbers, please juggle with all numbers! I'm not going to be able to hold the following: In the years 1998 – I was not a minister for a long time – the budget estimate was lowered until 2013. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: But now you are Minister!]] The biggest outrage occurred in my period, 2011, because in 2011 we had a discount of €1.1 billion – only to know what the budget proposals are all about. [[Abg. Kassinger: That means nothing for a long time!]] The next question is: Do you want poverty? The implementation of the proposals of the Freedom Party concerning pensions alone is a plus of €11 billion. Is it responsible policy to say on the one hand, we have increases, and on the other hand to double the increases again? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neubauer]] Is this responsible policy?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Tell the whole story, Minister!]] – This is not a responsible policy! They say the Voest's wandering away. – Yes, we have an energy problem with European steel companies. That's what we need to solve. I hope we agree that we do not want the advantage that America currently has in energy, namely the difference of 25 percent lower energy costs, in Europe. I hope we agree. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger.]] – No, that’s the crucial part! They come from the economy... – But the additional wage costs for Mr. Eder are by and large for Mr. Eder. [[Abg. Cashier: Additional costs!]] Talk to him! Unlike you, I do this to let me explain what is really a production factor and what is not. [[Interlocutory calls from MEPs Weninger and Kickl]] In the steel industry, the energy factor is a much greater factor than the personnel costs. You just need to look at the staff levels. Do you want fracking, do you want nuclear power, or don't you want these things? We are, I believe, very agreed that we do not want fracking and nuclear power – and then we have to solve an energy problem together in Europe. But then don't sit here and explain that the Voest is wandering because Austrian politics fails. It's just tasteless!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e11624	No one is reporting on this. [[10:38:14]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e11645	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Request for a brief debate on the response to the question 3229/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e11958	Before entering the agenda, I shall inform you that the request made pursuant to § 92 of the Rules of Procedure is to have a brief debate on the reply 3229/AB to Question 3394/J by Mr Mag. Dr. Zinggl, colleagues on protocols of the Bundestheater Supervisory Council meetings by the Federal Minister for Art and Culture, Constitution and the Media. This brief debate takes place in accordance with § 57a para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure after completion of the agenda, but not later than 15 a.m. [[10:39:31]] Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e11983	I would also like to say that Mrs Magistrate. Meinl-Reisinger has requested that the Constitutional Committee report on the motion for a resolution 840/A by Mr Mag. Meinl-Reisinger and colleagues concerning a Federal Constitutional Act with which the Federal Constitutional Act, BGBl. No. 1/1930, amended, a period of until 24. ==References== In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 43 para. 3 the request made by the Rules of Procedure to hold a brief debate on this request for a time limit. This brief debate will take place following the debate on the reply to the question. The vote on the request for a deadline will take place after the end of this debate. [[10:41:28]] Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e12010	It is proposed that the debate on points 1 to 9, 17 and 18 as well as 21 to 23 of the agenda should be summarized. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. That's why we're going into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e12034	Consensus on the duration of the debate was reached between the members of the presidential conference. Accordingly, a day block time of 9 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP each 122, FPÖ 113, Green 95 as well as Stronach and NEOS per 50 minutes. We shall now proceed to the vote on the speaking time just presented. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign in this regard. – This is unanimously accepted. [[10:41:29]] [[1. Point]] Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Social Report 2013-2014 of the Federal Minister for Labour, Social Affairs and Consumer Protection (III-138/470 d.b.) [[2. Point]] Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 752/A(E) by Mrs Ing. Waltraud Dietrich, colleagues on ‘Federal uniform scheme for minimum security of demand’ (471, e.g.) [[3rd. Point]] Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 824/A(E) by Mr Dagmar Belakovich-Jenewein, Members and colleagues on anti-poverty and social dumping offensive (472d.b.) [[4. Point]] Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 877/A(E) by Mrs Herbert Kickl, colleagues on the transparency of contributions and benefits in unemployment insurance (473d.b.) [[5. Point]] Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 777/A(E) by Mr Mag. Birgit Treasure, colleagues and colleagues on increasing the resources of the competent bodies of wage control according to the LSDBG (474 d.b.) [[6. Point]] Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 876/A(E) by Mrs Herbert Kickl, colleagues on potential analysis in social security (475, e.g.) [[7. Point]] Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 878/A(E) by Mr Herbert Kickl, colleagues on the merger of social security schemes (476b) [[8. Point]] Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 352/A(E) by Mr Mag. Gerald Loacker, colleagues with regard to multiple social security schemes (477 d.a.) [[9. Point]] Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 755/A(E) by Mr Mag. Gerald Loacker, colleagues with regard to the merger of social security funds (478 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e12204	We now come to points 1 to 9 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Kickl has spoken. I'll give it to him and set a speech time of 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e12231	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is nice that at this item on the agenda we will be able to make an immediate contribution to the debate that has been held before. We are largely concerned with the problem of the labour market, and we have just been presented with a large part of the problem in the statements of the Federal Minister. The SPÖ assumes that it has consumed the labour market and social wisdom with the big spoon and that all others are therefore swimming on the proverbial fire soup. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I am telling you, Mr Minister, that you will not continue with this concept, only because reality does not adhere to your requirements. And because you always make it relatively simple and every quote that is brought by us, and every number that is brought, then try to depress by You say the source is wrong, it is incompletely quoted, et cetera, et cetera, I have made the effort this time to quote you yourself, and I hope you do not suffer from amnesia and can remember your corresponding statements. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wenninger]] All quotations are related to the developments in the Austrian labour market, and they show the expertise and the corresponding analytical assessment of SPÖ in this highly sensitive area. In fact, Mr Wenninger, if I may briefly sum this up, you are whistling out of the last hole.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e12270	Mr Kickl, we agreed not to violate the reputation and dignity of the House. I would ask you to take this into account in the further speech.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e12286	I am very much in favour of paying attention to the reputation and dignity of this House, Madam President, however: In a girl's pension we're not here either. I would also like to maintain that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But first of all to this chronology, Mr Minister. ==References== April 2013 – I intervened randomly somewhere – you made the following indicative statement on the situation on the Austrian labour market in view of the already dramatically high unemployment levels. I'm quoting dog peddlers: “Over the course of April, the labour market should also be normalised with the weather capitals.” – Quotes. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the weather has actually improved. Perhaps you missed the profession, Minister, you might have been better off in a weather editor somewhere. But that was the only thing that improved, because on the labour market the valley trip continued. That's why you've intensified, Mr. Federal Minister, and on the 2nd day of the year. September of the year 2013 then accordingly announced – quote dog torfer –: “I assume that there will be no further increase in unemployment at the latest from spring 2014.” – Quotes. Well, ladies and gentlemen, spring 2014 has actually moved into the country. The second part of the announcement has not been fulfilled again. - So much for your assessment. Once again you have tightened up and extended the period of your forecasts a little and then have on 20th. February of the year 2014 – I quote – said: We have reached the point of departure, and I am “too convinced” that there will be fewer unemployed in January 2015 than this year. - Quote dog torfer. These are just a few examples of the precision of the SPÖ's assessment of the dangerous developments in the Austrian labour market. And whoever is so close to it in the analysis, ladies and gentlemen, there is a danger that the measures he is trying to take against these misadvantages have not properly recruited the vision. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You can't wonder, after all I've quoted here, that no one believes you anything anymore. In the meantime, you have discovered the miracle weapon for employment in Austria, which is now the tax reform – the tax reform that the mayor of Vienna has just spent a lot of time collapsing with you in a kind of “friendly fire”. This is now the new miracle weapon: the purchasing tax reform, which is more breaking up from day to day. Then: When a tax reduction was mentioned at the beginning, we are now only talking more about how to drive taxes on the one hand to reduce the other taxes. This has nothing to do with a tax reduction. And even if you are able to bring about a stronger tax reform, ladies and gentlemen, I guarantee you one – and this also shows us the experience of the past: The increase in employment will not benefit Austrian workers, but will benefit those who have come across borders since the opening of the labour market in the East and who have been your miracle of employment so far. That's the truth! And that's what the experts of the AMS will confirm to you. Mr Sozialminister, you are at the end of your Latin – that is the truth – and you need help. Social democracy has become a work-market policy in the meantime itself a supportable project. That is why our group has, of course, also provided assistance in the form of proposals in the Committee. And there you have to look at how to deal with it. At the beginning I said yes, wisdom has been consumed with the big spoon, and you don't need all that comes from the opposition, because you know everything much better, although you don't turn the trend around. I wonder if it would not be useful to start an anti-poverty and social dumping offensive in Austria, just as we liberals have called for. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We asked for that! – You have rejected this with your government fractions. They do not seem to want the Austrian population and workers in the border area to be protected from this brutal displacement competition. It is only interesting that you, if They go out of this house and put up the hoods of the Chamber of Workers and the union and then move through the country in the election campaign, which there sees quite differently. Requested there You are exactly what we are bringing in to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. But here you can remember nothing more. – This is the Social Democracy in 2015! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have called for the introduction of the country of origin principle into minimum security, i.e. until it is an Austrian citizen, each one of us should get only what he would get in his own country. [[Call the SPÖ: You voted against it!]] I think this is very, very reasonable. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Yeah, you're making fun of it. At the same time, your heads of state discuss, namely, the horse from behind, how to take away anything from those who are with us and do not integrate. Let's turn it around and say, First, integrate, become a citizen, and then you can work! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What we now have in Austria in relation to minimum security is indeed an insanity. I think of Schiller, “The cranes of the Ibykus”, in a slightly modified form: “Who counts the peoples, calls the names that “come together” in the Austrian social system?” Why am I coming up with such a thing? – Because we only asked for Tyrol, where people come from, the minimum security: 80 nations have been found in Tyrol alone, including the interesting nation “Stateless ” and among them the interesting nation“ Unknown. ” [[Intrusion of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] – So much about the Austrian social system and the incentives that are being sent out to the whole world. Another help: Cases in the case of unemployment insurance and the AMS. I think this is necessary in the sense of strategic planning, that would be appropriate! I do not want to rely on your pi-mal-dumb calculations in connection with the financial performance, this essential tool for combating unemployment. All of this is rejected or postponed. This is a disastrous state, ladies and gentlemen. You should be freed from your mental reservation against opposition requests. Now I'm gonna tell you something: The problem you have is that this construction site is a very, very burning job, but weitem is not the only one you need to hit around with. See the Social Report: Current real wage losses in Austria! I tell you, the people will have nothing to do with your wage tax reduction in far-reaching areas, because so many people deserve so little that they will not pay any more wage and income tax. So that's the famous blow into the water you're producing and which you're actually selling as a cure. With what remains of these people, what does that look like with what they need to live? – The low-income earners who are said to be especially dear to you on the side of SPÖ are those who have to spend 40 percent of their income for rent and for housing. Now I can remember that you have waged an election campaign with the slogan “Leistbares Wohnen”. Yes, where is this liquefied dwelling, if 40 percent of what you have in income goes up for this dwelling, where is it? This has nothing at all to do with the euro and with any other developments on the They like to talk out, not at all with the bad weather, but these are home-made problems that have their causes in your tax and tax return. That's the point: These problems are home-made! And you refuse to do anything. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now we want to think that in a situation where people are getting less and less, it would be appropriate to decide on a package of measures against inflation. That's what we called for. They did not want that, so they did not want a package of measures against the price, they pushed it to the long-term bank in the Committee – that is the true translation of the term “returned” – and so on. There is no need to wonder, then, that the request for the merger of social security funds – that would be a reform step once, because we would talk about financing through savings and not through new taxes on the other hand – has, of course, also been rejected and also the question of the evaluation of the potential of the aggregation of social security funds. You don't even want that, ladies and gentlemen. This shows that you are in the truest sense of the word with your Latin in the end. The Austrian population would be well advised to give you a corresponding departure at all the next elections. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Will happen eh!]] I can only tell you that this discussion with you will lead us from among the liberals with the required hardness, because this unculture, the opposition, that no applications will be made, and then we will reject everything or move it to the long bank, so that it is not discussed here, that is an unkind that you will not pass on. We'll end this game!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e12394	The next speaker is Mr Muchitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e12416	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Minister of State! It's always the same thing: When Mr Kickl is here at the speaker's desk, he throws everything over the pile, which I actually did to say. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: With you too!]] [[Abg. Kickl: Now you have to talk counter! Outside, you're talking like counter!]] I wanted to speak on item 1, Social Report; all this is now down because the speaker's seat has been made out of party politics. I don't like that and I don't think it's fair. Nevertheless, I would like to lose a few sentences on Agenda item 1 before responding to the FPÖ proposals. The fact is that the social report 2013–2014 shows exactly what we need for social policy in the future: with figures, data, facts, with proposals from different areas. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Do not show up, but do!]] This is really for all of us here in the House who take social policy very seriously, ultimately the basis and also a great basis for work in the field of social policy. I assume that all here in this area want to secure and expand our social system. The fact is, we don't always have the same ways there. We differ in the area of financing, distribution and justice, but I assume that the goal for all is the same. I was at the meeting of the social spokesmen of the European Union and the European Parliament on Monday in Riga. There Austria was praised how we manage to counter it accordingly in these difficult times, while other countries are much, much worse. This is, of course, always surprising. [[Abg. Kickl: Bad seeing we do well!]] The fact is that there will not be a social minister who will receive the professional title “Zauberer”, he says: [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: He doesn't have to be magic!]] I am responsible for everything, I have a solution for everything, and I will solve everything! There won't be, that's not possible. The most important measure to achieve these objectives is clear: Economic and monetary union! The fact is, the ideas are there, the proposals are there. Now I would like to break 1 lance for Agenda items 2 to 9, too. It's not all bad what's brought in by the opposition. These proposals encourage us to discuss these issues and also to discuss them in the Committee. I don't think it's bad what's coming here. I think it is bad only if these applications cannot be implemented in accordance with the law and their funding is impossible. That's a problem. If, today, FPÖ is bringing forward a resolution on Agenda 1 on the package of measures against structural unemployment in Austria, then we must say it again: I understand that this is a subject that the FPÖ is facing because it is populist. [[Abg. Kickl: You'll still have to think otherwise!]] The fact is, it is not legally possible, colleague Kickl! It is not legally possible! [[Abg. Kickl: Do you see what is happening between Greece and the EU? See that?]] The fact is, we can't close the barriers and borders and say: You can't come in, but we can't go on either. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Then you will create the legal bases, instead of saying it can't be done! What kind of political claim is that?]] The fact is that more employees from Austria work in the European Union than they want to keep away from the Austrian labour market with this request. This is simply not possible, so this request is clearly populist and should be rejected accordingly. I would rather wish if there were any requests if there were proposals from the government parties that she too would agree. Why did you not agree to the wage and social dumping law? It contains all that you have demanded: that the 13th and 14th Monthly salary that the allowances with 1. In this way, we must ensure that the Member States are properly monitored. Why didn't you agree to that? [[Call the SPÖ:Genau!]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: I will answer it then!]] The fact is that the wage tax reform will come. The fact is, the SPÖ is on it. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: What is the SPÖ for? For what?]] There will have to be a wage tax reform that not only relieves those who are already paying wage tax, but also – in the form of a negative tax – those who do not yet pay, because they simply earn too little. We are called upon to implement this, and I assume that it will also succeed because it is an important contribution to boost economic growth, strengthen the economy and secure jobs. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e12587	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Schwentner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e12608	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Dear spectators! We now have a somewhat difficult debate because we should discuss nine issues and also the social report under one. I would like to start by referring to the Social Report because it already has a central result that should actually concern us all or make it clear to us, even the government parties, but we do not know where the tax debate comes to an end. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] The main result of the social report is that we are dealing with an enormously uneven distribution of assets in Austria, namely that for three decades, whether economic or financial crisis, income from wealth has risen unevenly higher than that of work. That means in good German that those people who have possessions increasingly have more over the years than those who work. This is reflected in the Social Report, but it should actually be known to us all. We should counter this by taking appropriate measures. But they're still missing. On the ÖVP side, there are no answers to what is going to be done to make the distribution of assets more just in Austria, as there is no answer from the SPÖ colleagues to what is going to be done in order to be really stable throughout the discussion and to ensure that those who have a lot in this country also make their share. These are very, very few, that is now percent comparable to America. Of course, it is not possible to compare America with Austria from the size and population. But there is also a very high concentration of assets in us, and I think it is a question of justice that those who are capable also make their share, as do those who work and permanently share in it. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] In good German: Get down with the taxes on work! This has been said by the ÖGB for months on posters, so please do it at last! One should not only discuss capital taxes, but also implement them accordingly. A recognition of the social report is also that housing costs are rising, that those people who already have little income have to pay more and more for living, for life as a whole. There are more and more people living in precarious situations, especially women. Once again, the Social Report states that wage shears between men and women have remained unchanged over the last few decades. That means that women still earn a lot less than men, up to 25 percent, depending on how to calculate it. This is a condition that is no longer tolerable, and I will not tire out to point out it again and again, because the need for action is so enormous that it should give us all real thought. As has been said, the disparity of wealth is increasing, and the number of those who make contributions and who are increasingly difficult in this country is increasing. I would now like to address some of the requests that have been discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment, first of all those of the Stronach team for minimum security of demand. To this end, I would like to say that I was recently at the poverty conference in Salzburg, which is not only a meeting of people dealing with people at risk of poverty in the various institutions, but also very, very many people involved, and the central element of this poverty conference has been the need-oriented minimum security and the completely dissatisfaction with it and the question of how people actually deal with it. At this point, Mr Minister, I would like to point out to you – but you know it as well as I do – that there is a new Article 15a agreement with the countries on financial compensation this year, as is the implementation of the need-oriented minimum guarantee. I can tell you that a victim who was himself on the panel said – and ex-Social Minister Buchinger and Public Prosecutor Herbs were the same opinion – that the minimum security is something like a federal dead end from which, if we don't change it, we won't find out that it doesn't come to people and does not help. However, the members of the minimum guarantee will become more and more like those affected by poverty in this country. In Austria, 1.5 million people are now at risk of poverty. This person at the panel also told us what it is like to apply for minimum security. And that's... Not only that the minimum security is paid out only twelve times, and not, as actually thought, 14 times, people do not know themselves, because they do not get any corresponding information, they are not accompanied, they are not offered any help, they do not even understand the forms that are presented to them, and there is no help in filling them out. This is about a group of yes, since it is important to turn a lot of screws. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] Unfortunately, there are a lot of people affected. [[New call of the abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] Yes, it's not up to me, I'm supporting it. It is complained that the assets that are included are much too low. This means that people get very, very fast into minimum security. And it's complained that you can't deserve anything to do with it. This means that the introduction between the minimum guarantee and the return to the acquisition process is far too poor. In addition, there is much too low heating costs. – These are all problems that many affected. At the poverty conference, the popular lawyer, who was also sitting at the panel, said that the condition, how minimum security is executed and handled, is unsatisfying. And that's... There are, in part, a lot of illegalities, how to retain minimum security, and there are very unkind officials. It's always been complained of, even at the People's Procuratorate. That is why I would ask you, Mr Minister, if you renegotiate this now, to look at exactly how it really is for people who have a minimum degree of security and what you can do to ensure that from Bregenz to Burgenland all have the same demands, with the exception of those who are at risk of poverty, because the minimum security, as it is now designed, does not help. Thus, in the case of minimum security, as was once planned and perhaps quite well thought of turning on many screws so that they are really designed in such a way that the people concerned feel in a certain sense of security when they depend on them. However, it is positive to mention that, due to the minimum security, much more people are insured than was the case before. I am therefore on the issue of health insurance and therefore on a painful subject where we will certainly not give rest, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and SPÖ, until there has been a merger of social insurance companies, because there really no one in this country – except obviously representatives of you who are distributing posts that secure their power – understands why we have different social security companies with different contributions and different benefits. [[Abg. Kickl: Darabos is for that too!]] Even in a family, people are insured differently and can rely on different benefits. No one can explain to me that this is only reasonable in any way. It is not fair, it is not transparent, nor is it cost-effective. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Get used to the fact that a few more requests will be made by us and we want to discuss this issue for a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e12684	The next item is the speech by Mr Wöginger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e12705	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Schwentner, the risk of poverty in Austria is falling, as the Social Report clearly states. [[Abg. Schwentner: No, it stays the same!]] For 2013, 127,000 people were identified less than at risk of poverty than was the case in 2008. The ratio has fallen from 20.6 percent to 18.8 percent. [[Abg. Schwentner: Yes, but there are still a lot of poor!]] So at least give back what is in the report! In addition, I would like to thank the Minister of Social Affairs and the officials and staff of his home for the very comprehensive report. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] The number of working poors, ladies and gentlemen – these are those people who have a low overall budget income – has also decreased slightly, from 9 to 8 percent. We must also take care of the tax reform. Then: There is a large part of part-time workers, where household income is higher than only part-time income, and I am in favour of supporting those who have to contend solely with this money and its standard of living. We must be careful not to give money where there is a total higher household income. This is the case for many parttime workers. Why? – Because freedom of choice is also a priority here. It is true that God is grateful, still many life partnerships and couples, both of whom are active, where women or men are part-time and the household income is higher than what is achieved with part-time work. The number of people with very low standard of living fell from 485,000 in 2008 to 355,000 in 2013. Now, of course, it is also important to continue to pursue that, as far as possible, we can distribute our standard of living and prosperity to all the population groups. A note also on the distribution of income: Media income increases by 1.2 percent from 2012 to 2013 and 13 percent from 2008 to 2013. Thus, in this period, income has increased by 3 percent more than inflation. In terms of redistribution, income justice – this is what it is called – there is a difficult word for the Gini coefficients. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] What does he say? He says how well in Austria is being redistributed from the better to the weaker incomes. There's a scale from zero to one. The lower this value, the better the income is distributed in the country. Austria has a value of 0.27, Germany has a value of 0.30, and in the European section we have a value of 0.31. So that in Austria is not redistributed, just not right, ladies and gentlemen! We are Europe's redistributors, and we have to make this clear. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What is required and what I call on the social partners to do in the salary tables is to have a redistribution in the life-earning curve. We need higher entry salaries and a flatter wage and earnings curve. It does nothing if only a lot is earned at the end of working life, but we need higher entry salaries at the beginning when young people create families if they want to create property. That is where we need higher incomes, and that is why we demand that the redistribution of the life-earning curve in the salary tables be illustrated. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A comment on part-time work: Many women want to work part-time, I know that myself as a works council. We have about 800 people at the Red Cross Upper Austria, who are in the care sector, and many women want to work part-time because they also want to care for children. Our task is to calculate child care time properly in the pension system. There's a lot of good happening, but it doesn't matter whether the children are born more closely or whether they are between the birth of the children exactly these four years. When children are born at close intervals, the four years per child must be counted. That is what we are calling for, and it must be implemented! [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dietrich.]] We must also support those women who are in the old system. All women born in 1955 must be given the opportunity, if they have worked at the beginning, to have children, then they may have provided care in the households that they can also weigh up half of this time with child rearing. We must support those women who do not bring these 15 years together. Ladies and gentlemen! These women have done essential things in the care and in the education of children, to which our attention is due. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Social Minister: The minimum security must be re-established. – Mrs Schwentner, I am completely different from yours. I think the minimum guarantee is there for those who also need this help they need for a certain period of time. I always call the 20 percent single-schoolers who have a hard time in life, and we need a social network for these people. But we do not need this social network for those who are trying to exploit this system. And if I look at this in the federal capital, I see a problem there. We need the same guidelines and criteria, and there can be no longer any difference between the median income of a worker with a four-member family and the income of a minimum insurance relative with a four-member family! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That's where we need action! It's got to pay off when you go to work! Performance must pay off, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e12821	Mrs Nachbaur. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e12842	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! Dear taxpayers! To push record unemployment in our country to the European and international economies is simply far too cheap because unemployment has fallen in the comparable countries of Europe, while it unfortunately rises from month to month in Austria. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] On Sunday, Social Minister Hundstorfer said in an interview that the next one to two years will be very difficult on the labour market. He will be right because the anti-local policy will continue in our country. I dare to say that the predictions in the election year will then change abruptly. In 2018, thanks to great promises – as is so common in election struggles – the forecasts will look sensational. The Minister will urge the electorate to state that only by red re-election jobs and prosperity are guaranteed for all. But, ladies and gentlemen, socialism has never worked. On the contrary! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Misunderstanding state care leads to social and financial ruin. ==References====External links== This was shown in the 1980s by the Austrian state-owned industry. In South America, especially in Venezuela, one can actually observe what socialism is doing. [[Abg. Steinhauser: It was so good there before!]] [[Abg. Kickl: We have no oil!]] Hopefully, people do not fall into these red, envy-based redistributive fantasies. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Only a functioning private economy that operates within the framework of a slim and reliable rule of law can reliably create jobs and prosperity. At this point I would like to thank all the entrepreneurs who are active in Austria despite this anti-local policy of far too high taxes and the partly unbearable bureaucracy. Thank you for creating jobs here anyway! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Especially dramaticly high is unemployment in people over 50 years old, we have heard, and in foreigners. Experienced employees are incredibly valuable, but because of the far too high additional labour costs and labour costs at all, they are often far too expensive for entrepreneurs of God. Therefore, the costs must be reduced. Bernd Marin says: Early pensions and contribution gaps cost us € 15 billion each year – a hypo every year! A year longer work on the other hand brings the state 1 billion € annually. Austria has the youngest pensioners in the EU, but thank God we are at the same time among the healthiest people in the EU. Therefore, this discrepancy is simply not explainable. Two years ago, for example, 84 percent of officials in Tyrol retired as “hackler”. And at Post and Bahn, only between 0.5 and 3.9 percent of employees work until the regular retirement age. It simply is not possible for all of us, though we are grateful to God for getting older and especially healthier, to work less for each year. Every politician who claims this and builds such a regime actually expropriates the hard working people and, above all, the youth – you have to be so honest! [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and representatives of NEOS.]] But as a liberal person, I prefer incentives instead of compulsion. That means: If someone works longer voluntarily, then he should also benefit from it. There should be a tax reduction for the longer working people and, on the other hand, a reduction in the additional wage costs for the employer. Performance just needs to be worth it! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Katzian.]] As for the unemployment of foreigners, it is now high time to correct the missing immigration policy that Austria has operated. Austria must see that the best qualified and most skilled people immigrate, not the most unqualified. Austria has become a magnet for unqualified immigrants, and there you can take a calm example of Canada, where I have experienced it. If someone wants to immigrate and he brings something to the land: please – otherwise not! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Abg. Katzian: We already heard that!]] Finally, a quote by Andreas Schnauder from the “standard”, which cannot be blamed for anti-socialism and which is also too high on every suspicion of thinking particularly liberal in economics “Economic policy has existed since then” – since the era Faymann – “inventing new social benefits and promotions that satisfy certain client groups, constantly working on surveys and the Boulevard and fasting emergency packages for acute problems, but moving sustainable solutions and real reforms to later”. “Nothing that the government does may hurt the masses, because this arouses unwanted resistance. [[Abg. Steinhauser: Socialists and Communists everywhere!]] [[Abg. Pilz: And what about the professional killers?- Oh, my God!]] A forward-looking location policy, which also demands victims, has no place here.” – Quote. Socialism and the sweet poison of state care do not work. We should rethink about the social market economy. This made us well driven, and wide sections of the population were able to build prosperity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e12990	Mr Hundstorfer, Federal Minister, spoke. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e13011	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to address a few points below. Can I say something about immigration? [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: You can say anything!]] I would have a great request – I know that immigration is, of course, a topic of the liberals –: 12 percent of Austrian workers do not have an Austrian passport. [[Abg. Kickl: How many unemployed?- Oh, my God!]] Of those who have been disillusioned over the past six years, 40 percent have an academic degree or are FH graduates. [[Call the SPÖ: Look, look!]] This has nothing to do with those who came in the 1970s. Take a look at a Salzburger Berggasthof, for example! There the dishwasher is a Hungarian primary school teacher. In a Burgenland transfer firm, the party leader is a Hungarian lawyer. These are the ones that have moved in recent years. [[Abg. Kickl: And this is a sensible model?]] You can also ask your entrepreneurs in Tyrol, because you are supposed to be so business-friendly, why 800 German workers have left Tyrol, because, in Rostock, Leipzig and Dresden, the labour market is working again due to urban tourism, why not Austrian unemployed – including those who are very close to you – have been invited to the Freedom-Economics Ring, but have automatically received Hungarian workers. [[Abg. Neubauer: Thank you for advertising the business chamber elections!]] Talk to them, discuss your ideas with them, and then we'll talk to you! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] You know very well, Mr Kickl, that your requests sound great, of course: Closing of the labour market vis-à-vis Hungary, Bulgaria, Romania, Poland. That's great, no question! – You just forget that when you join the EU you were sitting in the government, you voted in favour, and you know exactly what contract content you agreed to. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: EU accession? What are you talking about?]] You know very well that one of the fundamental freedoms of this European Union is free access to the labour market. Mr. Haupt was then Minister. Ah, isn't that with you anymore? Okay. For example, you also know that Austria benefits greatly from the fact that 240 000 Austrians work in the Federal Republic of Germany. [[Abg. Kickl: Why are you riding the European directives only in this area?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Kickl: Because they are needed there, Minister!]] You also know very well that, as a result of the Association Agreement, 49 000 Austrians work in Switzerland. You know that very well. [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] Tell this 49 000: It's too close for you! Tell the approximately 250 000 Austrians who are commuting to the Federal Republic: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, [[New calls to the FPÖ.]] Tell me that at last! You know very well that we were the only country that took advantage of all the transitional periods until the last moment – the only country! You are quoting statistics on the BMS here, and I must say that it is pretty slow for you to do so, because he has already sold us the Tyrolean statistics, we have already had them in the Committee on Social Affairs. Today, only the example of Eritrea has not come. This is a new challenge. [[Abg. Kickl: We discuss this!]] The fact is: You know exactly how this Tyrolean statistics came about. This is about those entitled to asylum who have not yet resided in the labour market. Also, tell the numbers about what it's all about here! To the BMS I can only make one point, Mr Wöginger: The reference period in Vienna is as long as that in Upper Austria. That does not give what is supposed to be. Because, for example, you constantly demand disclosure from the AMS: Finally open Parliament's homepage, there you have listed all the numbers of the UG 20! Everyone! [[Abg. Kickl: Then you could agree!]] What do I need a cash crash for?- Oh, my God! – The Ministry of Finance is doing it together with the budget service of the house. That's what it's all about. All of this always takes place every month, but it doesn't seem like it doesn't matter to you. If you address wage and social dumping here, explain where your support voice was! The only thing you can do is: Some problem – bum, bum, bum, bum – arise, and if we want to work together on a solution, follow the silence in the forest because the solution may not be quite the way it fits you into the crab. It's populism pure! They lead people behind the light. This is the same as you say that the minimum pension has to be increased to €1,200, but not to say how this can be financed, but at the same time protect the asset. [[Abg. Kickl: But you lead all foreigners to minimum security! You don't ask where the money comes from either!]] They are a representative of a party that protects the billionaires much more than the ÖVP. We have done a number of things here with the ÖVP. Only with you have we done nothing in this respect, because you say a strict no to all property taxes. Tell me that too! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] If you complain the rents: Yes, on the free market, rental is a subject. [[Abg. Kickl: These are the fees you drive up! The fees in Vienna! That's your responsibility!]] But then, objectively, you also say that where social democracy has massive influence, it looks different. [[Abg. Kickl: You have to answer the fees!]] There was no increase in rents in municipal construction and no increase in cooperatives. I would ask you to say that – but objectivity has never been your topic.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e13267	Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e13288	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! Mrs Nachbaur, I am proud and I am glad to live in a country that supports people when they are in distress. They are being picked up by the Solidarity Community. I'm really proud of it, and I'm glad I'm allowed to live in this country. I think we should make every effort together to ensure that this remains the same in the future. I believe that, and I am speaking now to Mr Kickl, we should not split society, but we should ensure that the entire solidarity community – and of course I also count the entrepreneurs and the workers – can maintain this social state, from which we all benefit, even in the future. I'm really convinced of that. Mr Kickl, you said earlier that social democracy was like eating the wisdom with the spoon. That is what you have said, Mr Colleague. [[Abg. Kickl: Take it!]] None of us claim that. If you were fair, Mr Kickl, you would also admit that we have good, really good discussions in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. [[Abg. Kickl: You'll delay everything you don't like!]] - We don't delay everything. Today, too, some of the opposition parties are dealing with requests here, but you must also accept, Mr Kickl, that your opinion is not the same as our opinion and that a request can also be rejected. That is also democracy, Mr Kickl! [[In the case of SPÖ and ÖVP, as well as Bravoruf des Abg. Wöger.]] If you say that we have quick solutions, I tell you, Mr Kickl and colleagues from the liberals, that sometimes I have the impression that you have a solution to all the problems. [[Abg. Neubauer: You don't even have a reason to reject the request!]] Their solution is simple – always and everywhere, no matter what topics – the foreigners. I think that this is really very worrying. I mean, in this discussion, which is really difficult, as we all know together, one should simply show a little more seriosity and not always make this bashing, always hack at others and split society. With the proposal, Mr Kickl, which you have tabled today – oh, we have a 100% problem awareness, just different solutions from the Freedom Party – and with the request concerning the dependence of the BMS on the country of origin we also have to tell people what that means. [[Abg. Kickl: You don't have a problem awareness!]] This would mean that people who are entitled to social benefits by law – including certain foreigners, as exactly as is laid down in the BMS Act – should receive benefits in accordance with the country of origin principle. This would mean that people who live with us and have the same costs as everyone else receive a social benefit which is much lower. [[Abg. Kickl: You can be a citizen!]] I have already asked myself, Mr Kickl, where there is justice, where there is solidarity with people who are also paying us into the system. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: They don't pay for anything!]] Maybe not at once, but sometime. The same is true, Mr Kickl! [[Abg. Kickl: Even those who come from unknown! Even those! How's it going?]] You also know very well that there is no equal treatment for Austrians and foreigners, as you would like to believe in this request. There are differences here as to the claim to the BMS. [[New calls to the FPÖ.]] A word to Mrs Schwentner concerning the BMS. I also believe, Mrs Schwentner, that we should think about federal uniform regulations in many areas – no question at all – but I do not believe that Mr Sozialminister Hundstorfer can solve the whole – I say now – state reform. [[Abg. Schwentner: How about a law? Then it would be possible!]] It's just not possible. The BMS was introduced with an Article 15a agreement, i.e. there is federal competence, but the execution is made in the countries. That is why it is very difficult in this area to bring about a united solution. What I would also like to say to the BMS: It is a performance that has been introduced at a time, ladies and gentlemen – and this should also be made aware of – than has been reduced in many other countries in order to help people in distress. It is intended to be a springboard to be reintegrated into the labour market. It is also a matter of looking at the time of reference, which could now be reduced to 62 days. All in all, I would like to conclude that, as I said at the outset, I am very proud to live in a country where the solidarity community also supports people who are in need.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e13437	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e13458	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen at the visitor gallery! I noticed that this social report did not stress something as I actually expected, namely that poverty and the risk of poverty had fallen. [[Abg. Wöginger: I said!]] – That has been said, right, but it has not been emphasized. Of course, it is not emphasized, especially not over there, because if you know that poverty has fallen, then of course there is no need for wealth taxes and “eating the rich!” because they are all “so evil”. [[towards SPÖ]] We have massive redistribution in this country, and the result is hopefully that poverty is falling, because if we divide so much and do not reduce poverty, then we are doing something in principle wrong anyway. The Social Report provides some information on things that we already know anyway. The Federal Minister has rightly pointed out that the numbers of the AMS are always available on the homepage. But what becomes visible from these figures is the state of reform in economic and structural policy, and, of course, the Minister of Social Affairs cannot take responsibility either. This is also the subject of tax reform. You, Mr Minister, just told me in an answer to a question that would not concern you. – Well, this is a little bit of a matter for you, because a lot of things that fall into your department also influence the stress of the factor work. It is about wage costs and additional labour costs. It is, of course, about things that are difficult to reduce in terms of pension insurance contributions, and in times of high unemployment it will also be difficult to reduce unemployment insurance contributions. But there is also accident insurance, where there has also been double-digit growth rates in recent years, as well as at the Chamber of Labour, as you have told us in detail in a request response. In nine years, chamber envelopes increased by 40 percent. I would like to know whether all the estimated workers have had 40 percent more in their pocket – because they do not. And what you've done with this money? – Some national workers’ chambers have increased the workforce by 40 percent, others have simply bunked deposits, others have built palaces for their people, and others have financed pension-related benefits and provided provisions for them. These provisions alone increased by 91 percent over the nine years. And all this at the expense of the little people who pay compulsory contributions from their wages and salaries! At the moment, all the institutions are committed to sparing, but the chambers that are automatically financed away from the wage sum – and I really do not take out the Chamber of Commerce, just that it is said – are piling up fat that could get bad. If this is always said that small incomes belong to you, then I am perfectly with you. If one were to lower the Chamber of Labour, then the small income would benefit disproportionately. Yes, disproportionate! [[Abg. Katzian: That would fit you to cut down the working chamber housing!]] Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Once you have abolished the compulsory membership, you can demand as much money from the volunteer members as you want, but as long as there are only forced members, you have the responsibility to deal with this money sparingly and not to accumulate reserves and finance functional pensions. [[Abg. Katzian: Neoliberal politics pure!]] I'm already on the subject of retirement. The Social Report also refers to pensions, and now, at the same time – otherwise, the Social Ministry always says that there is nothing to do with civil servants' pensions – officials' pensions are included in order to get better figures, because there will be fewer officials in the future. It will then be even more beautiful because pension expenditure is not measured by total government expenditure, but in percentages of gross domestic product, as if we were paying pension expenditure from gross domestic product. That's why all of this looks much more nice. In reality, we have a dramatic situation. We need to get things under control with reforms that won't be fun. If we do not address these reforms, we will land where Greece, Spain and Portugal have landed. We want to secure the social state, and for that we have to do something, not just look at it and talk things over.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e13561	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Loacker is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e13633	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Aubauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e13654	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! High house! After so much negative that we have heard now, I am forced to remove the positive, and no one can talk about it. Overall, the development of retirement pensions is gratifying. Positive is the marked decline in hacker control and the initial decrease in I-pension. The figures show that the reforms adopted in 2012 are very effective. Now, however, it is important to continue to work with the new arrangements already agreed, and to implement them urgently. What do I mean by that? . I mean, we need urgent incentives to keep older people in their jobs longer. We finally need the bonus suspension pension. Those who work longer voluntarily after the regular retirement age will then de facto receive 10 percent more for each year worked longer. This is a good offer, especially for women, who can thus reach higher pensions. Of course, it needs the appropriate jobs, but we have already heard today that a lot of money is being pumped into the promotion, into the active labour market. It is very important for us to get away from the principle of everything or nothing when we take up retirement. To do this, we need the new sub-pension. She will stop many people from taking up retirement from one day to the next. Through many discussions in the senior government, we know that many people are waiting for this opportunity, namely the opportunity to slowly move out of work and then slowly move into the pension. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If you reduce your working time by at least one third, you should be compensated for half of the pension. Who should this apply to?, I am asked again and again. – for persons entitled to the hacker scheme, i.e. for women from 57.5 on this day, for men from 62 on, and for the corridor board, i.e. for men from 62 on. We have been discussing this for a long time; now it takes action. We really shouldn't let the workers wait any longer. The partial pension not only brings pleasure to the elderly, it also brings additional income in tax and social security. We must not abandon such a win-win situation, ladies and gentlemen, after all. Another point that matters to us seniors: The reform fund should also finally be set up at the city of Vienna. Vienna refuses to adopt the regulations for federal officials also at Vienna's national level. – That is no longer to be accepted! And that has nothing to do with the election campaign, but that is a question of justice. [[Abg. New builder: I don't believe that!]] Yes, we are all sitting in the same boat – I am quite there with my colleague Muchitsch. Our common goal is to reach a pension from which we can all live and secure it permanently. To go to bed as early as possible was the concept of yesterday. Incentives to work longer, we need that. Slowly slide into the pension, that's a future model. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e13697	Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein has now come to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e13718	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It would now be very tempting to join the ÖVP-Jargon and to heat up the Vienna election campaign a little bit. Mrs Aubauer, you are in a government! Apparently, Mr Wöginger did not fully understand that he was a government partner. You've been here twice today and you've been holding opposition elections. You can do this in Upper Austria in the election campaign, I think it makes little sense here, because the ÖVP is the second government partner. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] What you've asked for here today, you'd like to do in your function, because you'll certainly get our support. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But now to the real problem field, which is very far. We have heard it today, it is a matter of various agenda items, including the Social Report. If one listens to you like this, Mr Federal Minister, and also many speakers of the government groups, especially the SPÖ, then one might think that people are already organizing joyous dances. There is talk of some percentage areas: 0.01 percent less are at risk of poverty and 0.1% have more jobs or others. These are statistical data that do not help people outside at all, and we should also beware of it, as if milk and honey were flowing in Austria! The data say: We have nearly half a million unemployed in this Republic, Minister of State! We had a committee, there was no request from the government parties. It's not like you're sitting down and saying, Oh, God, we really have problems, we'll pack it up! – No, you don’t do anything and you refuse the oppositional applications, you come here and say that everything is just populism, it all sounds great, we couldn’t afford it all and that’s not possible. I begin with the sectoral closure of the labour market. Mr. Federal Minister, you always come with the leader – and not only you, but also the representatives of the government parties who then explain this to us – it was not legal. – After all, it is not the task of politics to say that it is not legal, but it is the task of policy to create legal opportunities for something to go. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You know, the best friend of your Federal Chancellor, that is, the new best friend, a certain Mr. Tsipras from Greece, who does exactly the same. He tried to break up the existing legal circumstances and, interestingly, found a congenial partner in Federal Chancellor Faymann. That's the truth. Every head of government, every government tries to get the best out for its country. It's just with you that you say: Don't go! We don't want to! Let's not do it! We're not going to do that! – This is simply the wrong approach. Let's look at the data: We currently have – these are data from Statistics Austria, Mr. Federal Minister, these are not any fantasy data that you can access at any time on the homepage – an increase in employees. Now you have already said – what have you said? – 40 percent of all foreigners who have flocked to Austria for the past five years were academics, but would have to work in some auxiliary jobs. First of all, it must be questioned whether this is the right system to let really well-trained people work in auxiliary jobs, or whether there is not even a rethinking to take place. The second is: They simply did not understand what we want with the sectoral closure of the labour market. This is not about saying that all borders should be closed, but in sectors where it is not possible, no one should come in – that is quite simple! – and where there is a lack, a need, we can record people. There is nothing to be done to bring people into the country to which there is nothing to offer, no job. Then we come to statistics as in Tyrol. It is also exciting if you say that we know exactly that this is the statistics, which are the asylum seekers we have not yet accommodated. But I'm wondering, You have a working group, at least you have announced it, which is to see whether asylum seekers are allowed to work on the labour market. You can stop them immediately. If you do not even place asylum seekers who are already fixed to stay here on the labour market, we do not need to bring asylum seekers to the labour market. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Hagen.]] But then you should also have the size, Mr Federal Minister, and say immediately: I agree that asylum seekers may go into the labour market up to the age of 25 years, which I now take back; for we have a problem, and we do not want to make this problem even bigger – with people we do not even know how long we have it in this country, given the high rate of asylum, that is, over 80 percent, who will not even be entitled to asylum at all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwentner.]] Don't cry in between, Mrs Schwentner, you're still on it. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Königsberger-Ludwig and Mr Schwentner.]] They are the ones who stand here and complain that the heating aid is too low, and since there has been a green government participation in Vienna, there is no heating aid in Vienna. – That’s so much about your policy, but that’s green policy! [[Complaints and bravaders at the FPÖ.]] But, Mr Federal Minister, we are continuing to stick to the unemployment problems we have. It is interesting, of course, if you say that 12 per cent of all people on the labour market are foreigners; then I wonder why 27 per cent of foreigners are unemployed. That is, there is a problem, and these are all those who have a compulsory education degree. So something doesn't exactly match your numbers. Mr Federal Minister, if you do not believe it: They were from 2006 when I remember correctly, until 2008 President of the ÖGB. In its intelligence service – and I would like to give it to you in color – the ÖGB calls for a restriction on the immigration of foreign workers. The ÖGB considers this to be urgently necessary. It calls for this against the background of unemployment and assumes that by 2019 unemployment will increase to 19.2 percent after the Austrian calculation, i.e. every fifth will be unemployed in this country. These are figures of the ÖGB, which is the FPÖ very far away. Mr Federal Minister, at least read this, at least take your own people, your own people seriously, you were the president of this association anyway! [[Abg. Kickl: Trade unionists are coming anyway!]] You should think and think about it. I know, even with all the other requests for which I now no longer have the time, for example concerning the aggregation of social security funds, you always only have a categoric No, since there is not even a thought, an evaluation, since there is only: No, no, no, It's clear to me that you have four country elections. There will be You lose a lot of mandates, and these people will have to accommodate you again. And precisely for that, you have these organizations, such as social security, where then some failed politicians and pensioners are to be accommodated. That's it, and that's the truth. You just don't say that because you're trying to beautify everything. And it should somehow be given the impression that you are doing so much and that everything is so great anyway. – No, it’s not great, it’s not beautiful in this republic, it even says the ÖGB that unemployment will continue to rise massively. Mr Federal Minister, you must finally act there. Stop hiding and say it is not legally possible! Create You're the legal conditions! In this sense, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Wheeler: Slower!]] [[Quoted print version removed]] I ask you to accept this and finally think about it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e13828	The woman's wife. Member of the Belakovich-Jenewein resolution, which has been read, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e14016	Next speaker: Mr Spindelberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e14037	Mrs Aubauer said earlier that the times of retirement must belong to the past. This is also reflected in the present social report. In the current hour, we have heard that Federal Minister Hundstorfer has been very successful in introducing measures in the area of social security, or pension insurance in particular, which lead to the actual retirement age going in the right direction as it continues to rise. But I ask you, my Ladies and gentlemen, it is really an objective discussion. Why don't you all stop spreading the fairy tale with each other, so that the ASVG-pensions won't be financed any more! At the ASVG – and this has to be said clearly – it meets the workers and employees without exception, and you tell us again and again, we cannot afford to do so. – That’s just not true! Now I deliberately make a provocative comparison: For officials, we have a 45-year transitional period, which we can afford until the pensions are adjusted to those of the workers and employees. And if you think that because of the black and blue government's burden package of 2003/2004, an average pension of a worker is already only €1 170 gross a month, then you don't have to be afraid that this minimum amount would no longer be eligible for funding. The same game you made just before, Mrs. Belakovich-Jenewein, makes her always with the health insurance companies. The fact is that the members of the self-management of our health insurance companies do good, I even say, excellent work. They ensure that the total health insurance budget of €15 billion almost reaches the insured, as this revenue is only offset by two percent of the administrative costs. If you have read the report carefully: In 2013 even a surplus of €215 million was achieved. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] When federal authorities, countries and social security schemes in the course of the health reform attempt to build a new supply network around the patient, a better structure that benefits patients, especially in the rural area – and I am now deliberately saying that we need regional structures in the health insurance sector – and not unnecessary co-operation debates. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Ehmann.]] What we also need is also strong representations of interests for workers and no demolition, as NEOS wants, by saying that one simply shortens from year to year the Chamber of Labour, because precisely these revenues, which the Chambers of Workers have, ensure that we can offer countless benefits to those who need it, namely to workers and employees, such as representation before, among other things, the workers' and social courts. [[Abg. Loacker: chamber pensions!]] We are certainly not in favour of agreeing to a breakdown of workers' rights, by means of your permanent requests you make here.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e14086	Next, Mrs. Klubobfrau Ing. Dietrich speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e14107	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated Minister! Dear Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig, my colleague Dr. Nachbaur has never referred to the subject of asylum. What she wanted is a strict immigration policy; that is what we stand for. We want to be able to decide by analogy with the Canadian system itself who comes to Austria, who the state needs. Asylum is a matter for us, where we want to get a quick settlement, but of course we are facing the fact that people in need are being helped. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I have looked at the social report from one side, which was extremely interesting, namely with regard to poverty in Austria. 1 572,000 people live in poverty. If you say here today: Well, we're one of the richest countries anyway, with us only 18 percent of people are at risk of poverty!, that's almost every fifth. I'll tell you: The fact that every fifth arm is at risk of poverty is clearly too much for one of the richest countries, we cannot accept that in this form! If you look exactly into the report and ask what is at risk of poverty, what criteria are to be met, then you can see the following: These are those who cannot keep their apartment sufficiently warm, which it is not possible to eat meat, fish or a similar vegetarian dish every second day, which cannot have cars that cannot have a washing machine, no telephone, no mobile phone. If someone meets three of these criteria, he's in danger of poverty. Think about it: no washing machine, no sufficient heat, no meat! – This is really worrying, and that is actually a shame to this country that there are so many people living in poverty. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] If you look even more closely at who that is, you can see that it's a lot of women. We have already heard it today, with 890 € pension you live on the minimum of existence – that is the average among women. There are also one-parent households and households with three and more children. – In a state where we already have a demographic problem, we punish those who are willing to have more children. We also need to think about whether we do not finally achieve a family-friendly policy! Furthermore, if you look at the employment status of those at risk of poverty, then of course many unemployed people are at risk of poverty, but also 8 percent of those at work, namely those of the Working Poor. That means they work hard anyway, but still don't get over the rounds. Interesting is also the view into the Education: 13 percent of those who have Matura and 13 percent of those who have a university degree are at risk of poverty. Citizenship: Where do those who are particularly vulnerable come from? – These are only 12 percent of Austrians, but 33 percent of those who come from EU or EFTA countries, and 32 percent of those who come from other countries. This, Minister, is proof that integration policy is not working in Austria. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Call the ÖVP: That's not true!]] Figures and facts – you can shout ten times: That's not right! – you have to take note of it! Ladies and gentlemen! Austria has a system of diversity: On the one hand, there are those who hardly get over the rounds – we have now more precisely illuminated – on the other hand, there are those who have directed it in time to enjoy privileges, for example privilege pensions – to an extent that is truly insolent. We demand - and we have said this so often - a uniform system for all, a fair system for every Austrian, whether he is an official, whether he is a freelancer, whether he is an employee or not, so that this inequality treatment finally has an end. But we also want a transparent pension monitoring so that you can look more closely. And in this sense I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I'm looking for acceptance.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e14181	The just from Klubobfrau Ing. The motion for a resolution tabled by Dietrich is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e14394	Next word: Mr Obernosterer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e14415	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen at the visitor gallery and at home in front of the TV screens! I think something's out of the question: Where to help and help, there must be a social state to help. But you must not lose sight of something: that a certain self-reliance and performance continue to pay off in this state too! This will cover the issue of minimum security. It is important that the most socially weak or people who are not entering the labour market are helped. But I do not think it can be useful to make the minimum guarantee as Mrs Schwentner of the Green Group has said. In what is supposed to have everything in it, we would have a minimum guarantee model, I believe, where people do not want out to work, but where many others would like to get in with violence, in this minimum security. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: We already have that!]] That is why, I believe, it is also necessary – and the Minister of State is indeed with the social representatives of the countries regarding an Article 15a agreement in negotiation – that there is a uniform system throughout Austria and that those who need to be in minimum security are also given clear incentives to return to work. [[Abg. Peter Worm: Where?]] At present, in some countries where the funds are further doubled, there is little difference between those who get minimum security and those who go to work. [[Abg. Kickl: Have we always said!]] I believe that this needs to be looked at closely, and that should also be better developed in the future! There are, of course, a few more requests, and finally, Agenda items 1 to 9 will be negotiated under one. These include, for example, a request from the Freedom Party, which I was very surprised at, which also calls for a doubling of the posts of the financial police. As you know, we are currently working to reduce bureaucracy. Checks must be, but we also know that many controls are partly unnecessary. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: The Court of Auditors does not know yet, colleague! Why haven't you told the Court of Auditors that yet?]] We know we have to save there. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: President Moser is actually very grateful for such clues!]] – You only need to ask your business colleagues from the Freedom Party what the financial police do, how much they control and how they control them! If I look at the development of the financial police and know that, for example, in Vienna alone, the financial police was increased from 80 people in 2008 to 134 in 2014, if I know that there are around 500 KIAB employees in Austria and in the event of an emergency there is still a pool over which up to 250 employees can be drawn, I have to say to a request for a doubling of the financial police's posts. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Foreign employment of course also plays with it!]] Go out and talk to the businesses! Go out and see what the financial police is responsible for! It is important, and it is right – and I believe that the workforce is sufficient. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Protect foreign black workers?! Do you protect the foreigners in black-and-white work?- Oh, my God!]] There are enough people there! With a doubling of the posts we will not get the problem under control. We have enough people. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Why does the Court of Auditors not know?- Oh, my God!]] At a time when we are talking about debureaucratisation, reforms, red tape, it is incomprehensible for me to demand that the bureaucracy, the conditions and controls be doubled. [[Call the FPÖ:As you were twenty years in the...!]] You'll probably have to spend a little bit. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e14577	Next, Mr Pock. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e14599	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! Now that we have been talking for a very long time about labour market policy in the field of minorities, I would like to focus again on the majority of our population, namely women's employment. On Saturday, we adopted a new chapter of our “Plans for a New Austria” at our Annual General Meeting, namely equal treatment in the labour market. [[Abg. Rädler: How many people were there?]] [[Call the ÖVP: Five!]] I would therefore like to take the opportunity today to look at this issue more closely. We, of course, also have concrete proposals as a constructive opposition party. On the one hand, in our opinion, the topic of income shears is still not solved. It closes, but very slowly. On the other hand, we have a female employment rate which is clearly below those Scandinavian countries. We stand at 67 percent, the Scandinavians are all on average well above 70 percent. In addition, we have a high part-time employment rate for women. With regard to the reasons for this, I must contradict the EIA and the liberals: It may not be that those women who are currently in Karenz or are raising small children are mainly in part-time employment – this is not in keeping with one another. Currently, 45 percent of women are in part-time employment, so we should have a real new generation of baby booms. We wouldn't have noticed that yet. Last but not least, on the subject of poverty in old age: I would like to draw attention once again to the fact that women with an average pension of €800 are retired, but men with €1 200. If we take these building blocks together – the unsolved problem of income shears as well as the problems that on average fewer women than men are in employment and that there is also a significantly higher part-time employment – then poverty at the end of employment is the logical result. We have therefore clearly defined as the aim of the labour market for women the same opportunities that exist for men at present. I know that something is happening on the part of the government, but unfortunately far too little. We demand a much faster pace in terms of income, employment rates and pensions. On the one hand, we call for an analysis of collective agreements by the social partners, because in our society stereotypes in terms of both vertical and horizontal careers – i.e. with regard to the hierarchy levels and the choice of sectors – are still very strongly anchored. It follows that men and women actually have very different career paths. This is where the work in the bil-dung area begins – and not only with the AMS! We are also asking for an analysis, especially with regard to the budgetary situation, of whether the conversion from budget-related to personal social services would make sense at present, because of course it is a question of how dependent a person who does not currently have an activity can be from the partner or the partner. In concrete terms, I make the following requests: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] I'm asking you to make a difference. We are constructive, and I ask for a discussion. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e14685	The motions for resolutions tabled by Mr Pock are sufficiently supported and are therefore under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e14813	Next speaker: Mr Hechtl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e14836	Mr President. Federal Minister! Appreciate High House! Just how detailed the 2013-2014 Social Report has been designed shows me in an impressive way what a large area of responsibility this department has. As far as labour law is concerned, this report confirms that despite very difficult economic and budgetary measures, it has succeeded in reorganising essential areas of labour law and in bringing about improvements that also entail financial additional expenditure for the federal government. I am thinking, for example, of the part-time education allowance, which for the first time has succeeded in creating a legal right for part-time workers, so that they can take a training measure. We know very well that in today's labour market the qualification is an essential element. For example, I also think about the care care or part-time care, which enabled better compatibility between work and family life. Finally, care is an important area in our society. If you look at the figures of this social report, you will see that we have the 450 000 members of care funds and the federal government spends €2.5 billion on care alone. With regard to the care, I would also like to mention the changes in the care exemption for the patchwork and rainbow children, which makes it possible for the first time to use a care exemption for the physical children of the partner. The change in labour law, by which the workers are equated with the workers in relation to the exemption for elementary events, is also an important and correct step towards harmonising the labour law provisions of workers and employees. I could make a number of points from this Social Report. I would like to point out one thing, namely, the changes in the protection of workers. One important point for me is that now, in the context of the risk assessment of a workplace, risks that can lead to mental stress must also be taken into account. Finally, I would like to address the request made by Mr Loacker, in which the Chamber of Labour, the legal representative of the staff, is addressed. In fact, with this proposal, I say quite openly, he wants to make the Chamber of Labour disappear in the sinking. [[Abg. Kickl: Oh, you!]] Of course, every institution – and the Chamber of Labour is a very good legal representation – also needs financial resources. The working chamber envelope is 0.5 percent of the basis of assessment. [[Abg. Loacker:... increased since 2004!]] If you say you want to reduce this basis of assessment by 0.5 percent each year, then it will go to zero – until it is, as you have said, a voluntary representation of interest. [[Abg. Kickl: Save on the SPÖ propaganda! A few ads or commercials less!]] Especially in times when it is about combating social fraud, which is about demanding more and more wages, which are about representing the interests of workers in the health, labour law, insolvency, consumer protection, I believe we must strengthen the Chambers of Workers and not weaken them! [[Abg. Kickl: You can save yourself the SPÖ propaganda!]] When you look at how the Chamber of Labour is constantly rowed in surveys, it turns out that it is usually represented in the first two places, far above the ranking of politics! [[Abg. Loacker: Then people can volunteer...!]] I believe, Mr Loacker, that you would take a strong interest in the 3.5 million employees – in Lower Austria it is more than 500 000 employees, in my district over 30 000 – – a legal representative who enjoys full respect and recognition, which is one of the pillars of the social partners. I think we all appreciate the work of the Chambers of Workers. We support these Chambers of Workers and will at least oppose this request, you can think so!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e14926	Next speaker: Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e14947	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! We've heard it more often today: 22 different social security institutions are clearly too much in Austria! We have often called for a merger from the FPÖ, and we will do it again and again until it is implemented, because no person in Austria can understand such an administrative burden. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, there is no understanding at all of such an administrative bacon for the insured with their forced contributions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Shopf.]] – Mr colleague, it is repeatedly addressed by your party to the administrative reform. The administrative reform – where is it, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government? – Far and wide not in sight! [[Abg. Rädler: How long was the FPÖ in the government? When were you in the government?]] Mr President, as long as there is no combination of these many different social security institutions, we are going to make this request again and again until one day it is implemented, for one cannot exist, dear friends of the government, ÖVP and SPÖ: that these administrative devices provide only posts for well-paid officials of SPÖ and ÖVP. Dear friends, it won't play with the Freedom Party! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Rädler: Have you had a Social Minister? Main: FPÖ Minister of Social Affairs!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen, allow me another sentence on social and wage dumping. In a letter from the Chamber of Labour, addressed very well by Herbert Kickl in the beginning, the experts draw a mixed balance sheet with regard to social and wage dumping. – I quote: “A thorn in the eye, however, is still the so-called ‘mountaign privilege’ to the AK expert. That allows foreign companies operating in plant construction not to comply with domestic collective contract wages for a period of three months.’ Dear friends, in my opinion, this is a disadvantage for the domestic economy, and that should be changed immediately! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e15023	The next item is Mrs Dipl.-Kffr. (FH) Pfurtscheller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e15048	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate viewers in front of the screens and at the gallery! I have dealt specifically with the issue of women and pensions in the social report before us, as have some of my previous speakers. In Chapter 12, there is a reference to the above-average poverty risk rate of single pensioners. This is also underpinned by the fact – including Mr Pock, who mentioned this earlier – that Austrian women received an average of only €852 gross pension in 2013. We are all aware that a way out of this misery is to ensure that women work in full employment, earn as much as possible and work for as many years as possible. In order to support this, a great deal is currently being done in Austria: Childcare facilities are expanded, all day care is offered in schools and much more. But I would like to point out another solution. We women in the Tyrolean People's Party have been conducting information events on women and pensions throughout Tyrol for some time. At these events I have the opportunity to talk to a lot of women. Many tell me that they don't necessarily want to work again soon after the birth of their children. Many want to spend time with their children and their families and therefore also make a conscious decision with their partner for part-time employment. I therefore think that policy should respect this desire of women and that it should give families a chance to improve the pension rights of women with the help of the pension split. I know, Minister Hundstorfer – you have already said it in the Committee on Social Affairs – that you think this is not a cure. And you're right about that, too. There are, of course, many women who like to choose to work as fully as possible despite their children. I myself belong to this group, too. Of course, there are also women who simply have to go to work because otherwise the family income would be too low or because they are alone. But I am convinced that the pension division can be a way of several to ensure that women in the pension do not slip into old age poverty. We already have the possibility of splitting the pension, but only in the first four years of life of a child and even if it is requested extra. Unfortunately, this possibility is still very unknown to the public. Mr Minister, I am pleased that, as you have informed the Committee, you will be planning an information campaign in the near future. From my point of view, the pension division should be urgently expanded and optimised. Pension division should continue to be possible and not only for the first four years of life of a child. Moreover, it should be carried out automatically as in Germany, and only those couples who should not have it should be able to opt out. Mr Minister, I see no reason why this very good option for many families should not be improved in time. This does not create any additional costs for the state, because the balance on the pension account is, as it were, only transferred from the man to the woman. Minister, I think – no, I know! – that many families in Austria would be very grateful for this alternative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e15096	The next item is the speech by Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e15117	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and especially valued spectators in front of the televisions! [[The speaker presents a table with a source titled “The press, front page, 23.12.2014” on the speaker’s desk, on which three coloured beams – orange, blue and green – can be seen for the development of the purchasing power of workers, employees and officials.]] [[Call the ÖVP: A Taferl!]] [[Abg. Höfinger: Maria Taferl!]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: The difference between orange and green is not...!]] Mr Minister, I should like to join with Mr Kickl's speech, who has rightly said that it is very dangerous to focus on the weather report on this important social report in the labour market. This poses a particular danger in view of the increasing weather conditions that we are causing through our living. When I look at this social report as a family speaker of the Stronach team, I see it is particularly shocking for the most important cell in the state, for the family. Costs for families increased by 59 percent between 1995 and 2013 than overall social expenditure. That means, of course, we have a particularly low standard of living for the one-parent families and for households with three and more children. – This is the situation of the families in the country of Austria! I hear again and again, we want to shape Austria as the most family-friendly country. Because the colleague on the table has made an outrage at the speaker's desk: Col. Rosenkranz, I am convinced that you are an educated person and read the “Press” – and this is nothing but the front page of the “Press” of the 23rd century. December 2014, is not too long ago! During the Christmas holidays I have read this “Press” edition several times. [[Abg. Rädler: And did you understand?]] That says everything about how this social state is developing Austria. By the way, everyone today can read about the privileges of the National Bank in the current daily editions. That's not how it's presented, so be glad, sunshine! If I look at the development of purchasing power at the workers from 1998 to 2013, that's a 14 percent minus! The staff remains the same, and – now it comes – the officials rose by 23 percent. I would like to know one in this House because the next morning or tomorrow the Economic Chamber elections begin and because we have a President of the Chamber, who is said to have only thirteen Members sitting in this House, who always shudders at politics, speaks of “sanding off” and speaks of Austria internationally: [[Abg. Haubner: It's over!]] Isn't he talking to you? Or if I look at the head of state Pühringer, who is getting nervous now because of fear of lost country elections in autumn, and in the bureaucracy that he has built up in Upper Austria himself, now lets the lightning flash, then do I ask, ladies and gentlemen, do they not talk to each other, or does Mr Christoph Leitl not speak with the party colleague Fritz Neugebauer? [[Abg. Rädler: That's your president anyway!]] On this occasion, by the way, I should like to congratulate the really successful winter sportsmen, the Austrian national team, on the great successes they have now achieved in America. These are promoters for Austria! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I am really glad that Fritz Neugebauer is not a winter sportsman, Mr. Colleague! If Neugebauer were a bob driver and would be riding in the Viererbob at the Austrian national team, then this bob would have been in the start house for forty years because Fritz already put on the brakes before he even moves! [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and the FPÖ representatives.]] Friends, that's this Austria, that's this government that decrees standstill! Ladies and gentlemen! May I say the following – also to Minister Hundstorfer and colleagues Schelling, who can finally go to reforms – it has been mentioned how many social security institutions we have in this country: [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: He already hurt himself skiing!]] Where are the administrative reforms? Where is debureaucratisation? And what does Fritz Neugebauer say: Not even 0.01 promille and it is stretched. This is the reflection of this government! If these measures are not addressed, we have no chance of social equality, then we have no opportunity for a social Austria because this client policy is being pursued further: Client policy in the area of chambers and social security is being pursued, as friends and relatives are provided, the jobs are only passed around. [[Abg. Haubner: Which one?]] And that's the problem. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister and, in particular, colleagues from the government parties, we should not discuss new taxes. The President of the Court of Auditors Josef Moser has presented 595 proposals on how to save expenditure. [[Abg. Fekter: 460 are implemented!]] I am convinced that Mr President Moser not only wants to criticize the government but also to consult it. I am in favour of quick discussions, that targeted discussions should be conducted to save on the structures and the administration, to achieve debureaucratisation, and not to tax the hard-working people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e15305	Next word: Mr Schopf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e15326	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kickl spoke today about, among other things, an offensive against wage and social dumping and announced this Quasi offensive. [[Demonstrative applause by representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Bravo, Kickl!]] Ladies and gentlemen, why I address Mr Kickl and his speech is because precisely his party – precisely his party – was that party and is still that party that, when we discussed, discussed and decided on this wage and social dumping law here a few years ago, 2011, we voted against. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Because she was good!]] [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: The one who opens up to us! - Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: It was right!]] The Freedom Party voted against when we passed this law! [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Yes, it was right!]] [[Abg. Kickl: That's not the only thing you don't understand!]] A few weeks ago, a few weeks ago we discussed in this House a revision on wage and social dumping and decided to amend it with the objective and ultimately also with the decision that it has been for a few days, in concrete terms since 1. January 2015, higher penalties are given. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Great it was!]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Well, a few days?- Oh, my God!]] It was agreed and decided that control and control in the area of social and wage dumping would be extended. [[Abg. Kickl: Who controls?]] [[Abg. Kickl: Who controls?]] Not only the basic content, ladies and gentlemen, there is now also the possibility of controlling the whole payment with supplements and supplements. [[Abg. Kickl: Who controls?]] Another essential point that trade unions have always called for: not only will allowances and supplements be controlled in the future, but it will also be checked in the case of overtime payment schemes governed by the law or by the collective agreement. And behold, when this novelle was decided, a party stood up against it again: The Freedom Party voted against the amendment. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Yes, it is!]] [[Abg. Kickl: Perfect!]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: With bad laws!]] Ladies and gentlemen, the law is unique, and it is unique in Europe, because in the whole Europe has no such law. We are therefore very proud in Austria, especially from the point of view of the Chambers of Workers, trade unions and from the point of view of workers, of the fact that there is this law. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Why do we innovation it then?]] The figures and facts, the figures and facts, my colleague, speak a clear language. [[Abg. Kickl: You are the wage negotiators! - Oh, my God!]] Last year alone, only last year, there have been 70 000 companies controlled, more than 200 000 colleagues have been affected by these controls and, ultimately, many ads, over 1,000, have been refunded. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] There is a double-digit volume of punishment. Finally, ladies and gentlemen: It is therefore even more incomprehensible to look closely at the demands and requests of the Free Party, which it calls for in the area of wage and social dumping. They claim, in application 824/A(E) in 472, that in future workers who have been identified and documented more than once under such a wage and social dumping relationship lose their entitlement to pay. Workers should lose their entitlement to pay. They also call for workers who are affected more than once to lose their entitlement to unemployment. [[Abg. Kickl: Come on, excuse me! To hello!]] Furthermore, the workers concerned will in future lose work and residence permits. [[Abg. Schimanek: Sure!]] Ladies and gentlemen! That is, the liberals do not want to punish the perpetrators, but the victims of wage and social dumping. [[Abg. Kickl: These too! They're perpetrators, too!]] And we as Social Democrats strongly reject this.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e15654	Next word: Deputy Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e15676	Mr President. Minister! Believers here in the plenary and at home! The first word by Minister Hundstorfer was today that we should undergo the social issue of a general consideration. – That’s exactly what we liberals do constantly, we don’t look forward to issues that are unpleasant. They, on the other hand, are trying to negate this whole social area as much as possible and to cover up unpleasant truths. It is not quite easy to always get all the numbers on the table – I will come back to it later. But only a number: Over 30 percent of GDP is already going to the social sector – Mr. Kassinger has said it today – and your budget is of course also strong like an Kaisersemmel. Let us now come to minimum security! A brief explanation for those who do not know: The minimum guarantee is divided into a high-quality minimum guarantee and a minimum private security. The private law concerns everything in the care and old-age home sector. I'm going to take this out because it's certainly right. Our topic is the state of the art minimum guarantee. Here is also a number: 240 000 people in Austria are currently in minimum security. The charges are, as has been said, a bit different depending on the federal state between €820 and €870 net plus additional benefits. These amounts, as well as the number of minimum insurance beneficiaries since 2011, have increased annually from 15 to 20 percent. Let us now – Mr Kickl has mentioned it briefly – still on the topic of Tyrol, where in the last committee meeting a particularly for the SPÖ, I think, an unpleasant topic – where we have to say to Tyrol that the Green Councillor Baur and the Black Head of State Platter have been treated there. No one understands that, of course. Also because of the press release by me: What do you think the Tyroleans asked me to do? They could not believe that we in Tyrol have over 80 nations, Hermann Gahr, over 80 nations whose members get the minimum security. [[Abg. Gahr: We know that!]] You have to explain this to someone who's going to work. With regard to the nations, as said, some examples – I am not going to mention Eritrea and the other African states now – but we have 29 stateless, 34 with unknown nationality and, for example, an American. This list is very colorful and very amusing for reading, you can then look at it on my homepage again. What has also been striking in this response is that there are no statistics on additional services, i.e. housing facilities, refrigerators and so on. There are simply no statistics. There are also no statistics on research, i.e. whether the District Headquarters team in Tyrol has researched whether this US American in America Has wealth or that in Eritrea or elsewhere where. There is – exactly – no research on this, of course. [[Abg. Kickl: It's only for domestics!]] I imagine this funny, like the County Headquarters I'll call somewhere in Eritrea to find out if there's any wealth. There are, of course, no statistics on abuse either. They just don't exist! Landesratin Baur writes quite amusingly that you are only very few cases known. – But there are no statistics on this. Whatever is not available – in Tyrol the value is about 55 percent Austrian citizens and 45 percent of the rest of the world – is a statistics about 55 percent Austrian citizens, whether they have migration backgrounds or not. Let's put that down. You did not believe me at the last committee meeting, Mr. Minister. The topic, which is not just a federal topic, is the following: The cost-laws that come to us and are getting stronger not only concern the federal government, but also the countries and the municipalities. Above all, the communities are increasingly moaning under the burden. I brought you the budget of Mils, a small village with 4,000 inhabitants. Minister, this is the draft budget 2015. [[The speaker presented a copy of the budget draft to Federal Minister Hundstorfer.]] With us in Mils, the minimum guarantee for the budget is just over €450 a year: This has to be a small community! This value has doubled in my community in the last three years, that is, you can calculate which avalanche will roll on us in the future. As has been said, we have always called for minimum security to be in place in principle for Austrians and not for the whole world. I would therefore also like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I believe, Minister, that the truth is to the people. According to my estimate, the taxpayer costs the demand-oriented minimum security – there is no value on your part – no matter whether federal, country or municipalities, in about €1.5 billion. I have already said that, unfortunately, Austria has not been the country where milk and honey flow. That is why we need to save once and bring the money where the working population in Austria needs it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e15758	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mr Wurm is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e16032	Next speaker: Mr Höfinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e16053	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Since 9 a.m., we are discussing the social field today, and in the current debate with many agenda items, we are of course also dealing with the 2013/2014 Social Report, which is a very comprehensive report, as we have just heard or how we can read. This shows us that over the last decades in this country a comprehensive and also a very complex social system has been established in close cooperation between the social partners, covering the various areas of life – from infant to old age – and providing assistance and answers in all areas of life. This social system is a wonderful foundation that also distinguishes us from many other countries that would see it. But: A sustainable social system lives on the fact that it changes, develops further, adapts to the circumstances of time and remains so future-oriented. What is the current starting point? . We know that fewer and fewer people are getting into work more and more later because of the weaker years and because of the longer training. We still get into pensions earlier than 40 years ago. Thank God, we live longer than we did a few years ago. This population group will also grow enormously due to the strong years that are about to enter the pension. In the field between them, i.e. for those in working life who, through their hands or mind work in reality, lay the bulk of the foundation, the financial basis for this social system, the effort is increasing. [[The speaker points to a distance of about 30 centimeters with his hands]] That is to say, we must constantly adapt to these circumstances and adapt this social system accordingly, because the challenges will be bigger, not smaller in the future. We currently have some very current topics – these are pensions, the number of unemployed, of course also the area of care, which is increasing by many older people – and we need to give answers, now that these programmes can be financed and they have effect. Therefore – this issue is already written in the Government Convention – it is also about partial pensions. Mr Bundesminister, your house, the Social Ministry, is now called upon to finally present a model to enable this gradual transition. This is one of the most important steps in the coming period, so that we can then decide on these fundamentals and laws here in the House. In order to address the labour market situation, which is more than strained, and the unemployment rate: I am amazed and surprised that employees are still being played against employers during today's discussion in 2015. That's something unimaginable. [[Abg. New builder: But your coalition partner!]] We have only mastered well in recent years of crisis, because there was close cooperation and cooperation between employers and workers. I think that must also be the basis for the next few years, for dealing with the upcoming tasks in order to find a good basis for our work again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e16105	Next, Mr Magistrate. Alm to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e16126	Mr President. Mr. Minister! When the language comes to the social security systems, one always gets the impression that we are living in the best of all worlds, as is the case with many other materials. Twenty-two social insurance institutions are the easiest solution to manage, with the lowest overheads and the best benefits for all insured persons. That sounds incredible, so it is, because it is not so, and the following two points that falsify this: First review: In health insurance, for example, there are different benefits, and without competition. The insured persons cannot choose their own social security institutions, but obviously some of them work better than others. If the system were actually the easiest, then the services and the service catalogue would have to be the same for all. Second point of criticism, second point of error: Multi-insurance is an unresolved problem. With a recent request, Gerald Loacker has determined how many people in Austria are insured several times: That was about 110,000 people in 2013 with an increasing trend, which is about a 12 percent increase in the last five years. About 84 000 of these are self-employed and self-employed at the same time – this multiple insurance is not only an administrative problem but also a hidden fight for insured persons. In the so-called GPLA tests, self-employed, especially one-person companies – or actually the EPUs bank – are declared to be self-employed against their will. Small companies doing business with these EPUs must pay charges afterwards, for which the self-employed have actually paid before. The problem is that those concerned do not even have a party position in these proceedings – we have also submitted a request concerning the rapid establishment of a conciliation body. The other problem is that, of course, the clients of companies have some of the financial demands of the health insurance companies that are difficult to deal with. So what can you do? – Here is also a proposal from Gerald Loacker’s request: If a person is also self-employed and self-employed at the same time, the total calculated social security contributions to those social security funds in which the majority of the social security income falls. A much easier solution would, of course, be to put the social security institutions together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e16177	Mr Ing. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party to - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e16199	Mr President. That's the famous social report – so you can see what you've been discussing here for a long time. [[Keeping a brochure in height]] This is a number of social policy. In fact, the figures are neutral. But what we read is of course very different in the analysis: 43 percent of all pensioners retired in 2013 with the rule pension age, women to 62 percent. What is striking is that 15 percent of self-employed workers have retired from unemployment. The age of the men is 62.8 years when the age pension starts, the age of the women is 59.2 years. – These figures have already been mentioned, and it is also seen that there has been a positive development in this area not only in 2013, but also in 2014. It is also striking that there is a rather very uniform picture across the various social security institutions: At the end of the day, the social security institution of the industrial economy, in which people last retire, is the social insurance institution of the farmers, where the retirement age is the lowest. Perhaps again on the subject of average pensions: The age pension was €1 641 for men and €1 102 for women on average by 2.8 per cent higher than in the previous year. However – and this should also be mentioned – these are not the real pension numbers, because 12 percent of all pensioners have more than one pension. To Mr Woeinger: If it were so beautiful in this country with income and wealth distribution, it would be really nice. The Gini coefficient for equity and money in this country is 0.76. So this shows a high concentration of property and money in relatively few hands, that can't be discussed away either. If you look at the issue of older people's employment in Sweden, you should also look at the boys' employment model: Youth employment in Sweden is significantly lower than in Austria, saying they have significantly more young unemployed than Austria. Retirement in the invalid area: On the one hand, we can really say that we continue to screw up the retirement age. But if 15 per cent of unemployment is already retired and if we know that 35 per cent of those who are going to incapacity for work today and to invalidity, which is caused by mental illness, we must also ensure that people have the opportunity to stay healthy in their professional lives. We should focus on this even more strongly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] When it is discussed here that we make too little for the people involved in the lowest pensions: 10 percent of those who receive a pension receive a compensation allowance. That's not nice. We're talking about these people having at least €857 as a minimum pension. Do you know what it costs to ensure that these people have at least a minimum security? – That costs 1 billion €. I would also like to have at least €1,200 minimum board. But then be as honest and say how you want to finance it. This measure alone costs € 1 billion. [[Abg. Neubauer: The question is how this is going to happen at all!]] Now to the requests: I have considered the fourth request, which is a step in the direction of unemployment insurance contributions: You want numbers here. On the one hand, you want less administrative burden. But this will create more administrative burden. That's why I'm wondering: What is the political orientation of this proposal? Because what's going on? Do you want to relieve the employers? Make work cheaper for low income? – This cannot be the way to more employment and a reasonable income! So, what do you want? In the final effect, this is the result of this request. We did one in 2008: The staggering of unemployment insurance amounts, in particular, brings a discharge to the beneficiaries of low incomes, more net of gross income. That's what we did back then. What you want is a discharge from the employer, we are not for that because we have other people who need more of it. And what is in the application is quite clear inside is your xenophobic hysteria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e16247	Next speaker: Mr Neubauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e16269	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr Schopf, I am glad that you just came in, because I would like to respond briefly to some of what you said. It seems to me like this, dear colleague: If the SPÖ stands the water to the neck, then it always has to resort to past events because it is unable to master the present and the future. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is true that this is simply to be sidetracked by the argument that we would not have agreed to a law. It is believed that we would have done so for populist reasons. No, it's about the contents in it, and that's what you just kept silent. It's about what the law wants to achieve, and for us that wasn't targeting enough at the time. But I can give you another example, from Upper Austria: In February, the Constitutional Court repealed a law on the disabled, which a Social Democratic Councillor introduced. The Constitutional Court has said that it is simply not up to the disabled to receive €236 less than non-inhibited people. – This is socialism, which is a disgrace for socialism, when you distinguish between healthy and disabled people and you pay 236 € less. The Constitutional Court has rightly repealed this law. And even then, the liberals voted against it, Mr Schopf. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That means it's about the content and not about any targets you've been talking about here. Mr. Federal Minister Hundstorfer, because you first said in your speech that the FPÖ was responsible for the outcome of the Easter enlargement: Mr. Federal Minister Hundstorfer, who always tells you in the undertone that you were not there at the time, I can improve your memory gaps a little bit. In view of this outcome of the negotiations in March 2002, Prime Minister Edmund Stoiber gave an opinion on the transitional period: The fact that there has ever been a time-limit scheme here is due in particular to the Austrian ÖVP FPÖ government, while the red and green German government has done little to this end. - Quote. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is the reality, so it looks, and not the way you want to make it known to voters. Another example of need-oriented minimum security, Mr Federal Minister, I would like to present to you one of the cases before me: A woman has been in need since 2008 and has been unemployed before and has received 550 € per month. At the end of 2013, she will receive a need-oriented minimum guarantee of €900, which is a plus of 81 percent – and the woman has not worked from 2007 to today. Mr. Federal Minister, this is a real social abuse. Here we have to do something, I would like to say to Mr Obernosterer: If we do not succeed in creating the incentive for reintegration into the labour market in the case of demand-oriented minimum security and, on the other hand, in strengthening control activities accordingly, we will no longer be able to carry out this system for our own people, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of 40 000 people who have sought asylum in Austria, many of whom are likely to receive asylum status. We can't do that. That is why, as a Freedom Party, we will do everything we can to ensure that this social abuse in the field of minimum security will actually bring about a rethinking.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e16336	Mr Huainigg. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e16357	Mr President. Minister! High house! Employment, the strained labour market situation has already been a major and important issue. The losers at the workplace are certainly also people with disabilities. The unemployment rate among people with disabilities has increased disproportionately vis-à-vis non-inhibited workers. We need measures here, we need to rethink and tighten the employment offensive. There are very good offers of the Social Ministry service, which must also be made to entrepreneurs. It needs more information. Two years ago, we loosened the notice of termination. There is now a probation period of three years in the case of new settings; only from this point on will the termination protection take effect. However, this information needs to be made even more available to entrepreneurs, as there is a need for action. But we also need to keep in mind education as a basis, because inclusion is also important. There are more special students than ever, and you know what career opportunities on the labour market you really have with a special school certificate. The AMS consultants also need to be better trained and sensitized. And the permeability of the second in the first labour market is also to be improved. I would like to address another important issue, since you are also responsible for equality and anti-discrimination, namely the so-called Eugenic Indication. In the event of suspicion of a disability, a fetus may still be discharged until birth – beyond the three-month period. That's what happens from the 22nd century. Week. If the foetus is viable outside the mother's womb, it is killed in the womb by a heartstick, a so-called fetozide, by a potassium chloride syringe. This is unbearable, Minister, it really needs a change here. We need to think about how this can be improved, how to delete the eugenic indication, which Fetozid forbids, improves parental advice, and also builds a period of thought between diagnosis and abortion. I would like to stress that this is not about the time-limits, but about the derogation to the time-limits. It was federal disabled attorney Buchinger, who recently stood at this place and said we need to change the Eugenic indication, it needs a survey on this subject. All parties have also voted in favour, except the SPÖ, which has meant that it is not ready for discussion. I would like to ask you, as a competent minister and also as a person, that you build the bridge here and create a willingness to talk. Finally, as always, I would like to point out the human dignity that should and must be enshrined in the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e16403	President. — The debate is closed. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e16424	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I know that the need-oriented minimum security is an emotional issue, and I know that there is a lot to know where abuse might occur. If there are cases, as Mr Neubauer – who unfortunately is not here – has quoted: We have introduced, for the first time, the need-oriented minimum guarantee that the district authorities or the magistrates may also reduce social assistance. This is therefore not a weakness of the law, but a subject of implementation. And the topic of execution is to be solved where the execution is at home: either with a district captain or with a magistrate. That's the subject. The administration was given the tools to be able to do so, and this must be done by the administration itself. There will probably be – I don't know the story at all – certain reasons why someone refers to emergency aid plus BMS for seven years. Or do you really think you don't look seven years, do you seriously believe that? As a result, there has to be something there. Mr Worm, I would also ask you: Please work with the real numbers! The demand-oriented minimum security costs the Austrian federal states, so that the municipalities and cities also cost 600 million a year, and not 1.5 billion. We don't spend more than 600 million. I'm sorry for you, I don't know how you always have your numbers. It's 600 million, that's the sum of what the Austrian federal states reported to us. And the Austrian federal states will know what they are doing. Or want You're putting all of them, they don't know? - Yeah, they're with the countries. [[Abg. Worm: Where are the municipal spending? Are they with the 600 million?]] Mr Wurm, I do not know what position you have in Tyrol – without misunderstanding – but please clarify all this at home in Tyrol! The community of Mils from which you come, for example, also receives money from the care fund. There are even two federal states that currently spend less than they get – only to know what it looks like there. That's why you're doing this at home! Then I would like to inform you again: The average reference to the BMS – they have spoken of 260 000 heads; 238,000 people at the highest level and 160 000 on average – was € 310 per capita in 2013 – the final billing is not yet available for 2014 – and it was an average of €520 per household. So we know what we're talking about! If we talk about abuse and anything else, I want to talk about it. You really urgently ask – although I know that this is an emotionally good topic for the host table, for the sports canteen, for the coffee house –: Give us facts! Talk about facts and tell people that the average reference time at the BMS is 8.2 months and not 12 months! Talk about the facts – and then we talk together!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e16461	Mr Knes. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e16482	Mr President. Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! We have a comprehensive social report 2013/2014, and I am actually sorry that no one here has said at the speaker's desk that this report has been excellently prepared. It has been presented to all Members, but none of them has really dealt with this report. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] It is also embarrassing to trample around an elephant in the porcelain shop and make the social state of Austria bad. It is particularly embarrassing when from the corner of NEOS and the Stronach team, the immediate increase in the retirement age of women is praised as a cure for Austria. [[Abg. Dietrich: We are against raising the retirement age for women!]] Dear Mrs Dietrich, have you ever been to a farm outside? Have you ever talked to ladies like nurses or self-employed people? [[Abg. Dietrich: Of course!]] – Well, obviously not! I'll tell you where the problems lie. Have you ever thought that a nurse has night services, also working Saturday and Sunday? They say: From now on you can work up to 65 years! [[Abg. Dietrich: That's not true!]] That's where you need to explain how it works. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] Then again the workers' chamber is hacked and demanded to reduce the levy. This clearly means a weakening of our social state, the social partners in Austria. I've said this before: The Chamber of Labour challenges €300 million a year for workers. Just from the corner of freedom, the slogan comes: We don't want the Chamber of Workers in this style anymore, because, I repeat, you don't play a role in the Chamber of Workers itself, because you move there at about 8 percent. [[Abg. Steinbichler: and the 100 million €!]] As a member of the social minimum insurance scheme or as an unemployed person who has unfortunately slipped God into unemployment, it is at least no fun to stay at home with 857 € – 200 to 500 applications have been sent off on average and no job has been received throughout Austria. Then trample They therefore say: They belong to even the minimum guarantee removed! – This is an attack on the social state of Austria, and we will certainly not carry that as SPÖ! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! We see our responsibility differently: Based on this social report, we want to track down those legal screws that make sense. If abuse takes place, then you have me fully on your side, but please do not trample on the weakest ones in our society that have no income and ultimately have to live on social assistance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e16574	Mrs Klubobfrau Ing has made an actual correction. Dietrich in word. I should like to draw attention to the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e16598	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make a real correction. Mr Knes has said that the Stronach team would be for an immediate increase in the age of women's retirement to 65 years. – That’s not true! I would ask the honourable Member to open and listen to his ears; then he would know what we are talking about, and then he would know that we are against it.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e16622	Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to ask all the mandates to take a very special look at the provisions on the actual correction, because I do not wish to point out in any actual correction that it was none! Mrs Diesner-Wais has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e16647	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! Like the Amen in prayer, the demand for a combination of social security funds in Austria also comes regularly. This is simply said in a populist manner and is often called for without a detailed objective, let alone a developed strategy behind it. We have set in the law a 3 per cent cover of administrative costs, and this will also be reviewed and monitored. In Europe, there is a part of the coffer, and in some cases they are only working moderately. That's where Austria has every comparison. In Germany, the Court of Auditors has examined a merger of social security funds. Thus, the administrative burden after the merger was even higher. I take three areas out of which it is necessary to harmonise beforehand. That's an important point. It is first of all a harmonization of benefits, because they are very different among the different insurance companies. The doctor's rate and the age of entry for incapacity pensions are different. Finally, when farmers' social security and those of the industrial economy wanted to get together, this failed in contract law. The government programme includes an increase in efficiency. This is a worthwhile goal, and we must work towards it. We from the EIA are in favour of an active approach to reforms. Active approach is important rather than populist simply to throw headlines per aggregation into the debate. Instead, we need solutions-oriented reform concepts, which we will also implement for the benefit of the citizens.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e16689	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does one of the rapporteurs wish a final word? - That's not the case. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 1: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of this report III-138 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Loacker, ladies and gentlemen, on the gradual reduction of the Chamber of Labour. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – The request is rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kickl, colleagues, on the package of measures against sectoral unemployment in Austria. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – The request is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ing. Dietrich, colleagues on “Pension monitoring in the public service”. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – The request is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Pock, ladies and gentlemen, on the earlier increase in the age of women's pensions. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – The request is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Pock, ladies and gentlemen, on compulsory and effective splitting of pensions. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – The request is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Kickl, colleagues on the country of origin principle in the matter of minimum security. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 2: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 471 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall also proceed to the vote on agenda item 3: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 472 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 4: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 473 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 5: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 474 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall also vote on agenda item 6: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 475 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 7: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 476 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 8: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 477 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 9: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 478 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. [[13:10:38]] 10. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (446, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law establishing a Federal Law on the External Legal Relations of Islamic Religious Societies (469 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e16915	We're now on the 10th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Klubobmann has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e16943	Mr President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we are dealing with the so-called Islam Law, which, in fact, would have to be called "anti-Islamism Law" in the face of the very acute and threatening developments, for it should actually be: to withdraw radical Islam and Islamic fundamentalism and to prevent that in various structures, which are also present in Austria today, whether this is the case in associations or also in various mosques in which hatred sermons take place, it is advertised. This should be done in the future, because this is what is unfortunately happening to God constantly in these areas and has taken on a certain dimension that is threatening. As a political leader, I represent and take seriously the real concerns, fears and desires of the population. I do not ignore these, and I have for years pointed to misdevelopments in this area, for which we have often, unfortunately, been accused by political competitors. It is not about an ideologically evocative policy, but about the real concerns and problems of the Austrian population. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Believe me, I have no pleasure in keeping right with our warnings we issued a long time ago. We have experienced that radicalisms have become manifest and visible within the framework of the recent police raccia that took place in Vienna, Graz or also in Linz. Unfortunately, the Islam Law does not give God the slightest answer to these problems, and we will therefore reject it today. We are saying today how we said this from the beginning when this Islam law was discussed: Please go back to the start! The draft law presented simply does not create the basics we would need. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Unfortunately, God's problem is already starting in the current Federal Government, namely with the ÖVP Partyman Mitterlehner, who meant that Islam belongs to Austria. – I say: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no! , it does not belong to Austria, neither cultural nor Yes, in history, when Austria was a monarchy, over 100 years ago, Bosnia was a part of the monarchy a short time ago. Bosnia was no longer part of Austria after the First World War. After that, we had 23 000 Muslim citizens in Austria in 1970. We have over 400 000 today through a completely indifferent and missing mass immigration policy. This, of course, has created problems that we have repeatedly identified and which are, of course, present in the dimension. These were caused by immigration. Yes, today we have a very large community of faith. Yes, and there are also some converts there or there, not a question, but usually it has come about through immigration that we find such a large group of a new community of faith with us, but not as a historical and cultural part of Austria. If Mr Faymann has so far been pressing for a clear answer, one must also wonder, for I say: Especially in the Islam law, it is of course necessary for one to be differentiated, and one obviously is not able to do so. There is a dangerous radicalism, a dangerous Islamization. Of course, not all Muslims must be put under general suspicion, not a question, that is to be prevented under all circumstances, but where radicalism and Islamism exist, we must ultimately also strongly propose a bar. This is about safeguarding our freedom, our democracy, our fundamental rights, our constitutional rights, which are under threat. And you have to take this seriously and you can't take it on the light shoulder! There must also be the courage to name problems in concrete terms! When radical Islamism refers to Islam, it has something to do with Islam. It would be equally absurd to say that the witch burnings in the Middle Ages had nothing to do with Christianity. Yes, they had to do with Christianity. - Good thing we got over this. We therefore demand that the law be firmly established that in mosques, but also in teaching and also in mental care in prisons, of course, it should be preached in German. And that's not exactly what the law says. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We also call for the financing of Islamic institutions and associations from abroad to be really rigorously discontinued. – This is not found in the law either. What we find in the law is – we have a few hundred Imams today – that further funding will not be financed by abroad in the future and that training will also be ensured by Austria. But with all the associations we have, foreign funding is still possible, and exactly there are the dramatic radicalization failures and are taking place. In addition to the legal conditions we have, with their gaps, there are also many loopholes as to how to handle this. I also wonder where the clear line of separation remains vis-à-vis symbols of political Islam. Where is a Minaret ban, as it has been true in Switzerland for years?- Oh, my God! Everyone knows that the Minaret is of course a political sign of Islamic conquest and therefore has nothing to look for in the Christianly shaped evening country. Where is the Burka ban, which has long been introduced in France and Belgium and has not yet been implemented by us?- Oh, my God! And then I hear again and again that women's rights are spoken of – but that doesn't fit with the Burka. The Burka is a symbol of oppression, and anyone who speaks of women's rights in this context shows that he is unbelievable. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] These are all democratic European legal states that have introduced those measures. We in Austria should look after this for a long time. Unfortunately, all of this cannot be found in this Islam law of God. Unfortunately, from these requirements, even from the self-proclaimed goals, this law is far away from God, just as far away as Vienna from Mecca. Islam's law is half-hearted, complete and cemented with special rights, which unfortunately play God's hands to radical Islam, continue to play their hands and also prevent the integration of Muslims into society. Luckily, there are people who move to Austria from the Muslim area who reject that which rejects radical Islam, who have liberal attitudes that have partly fled here in order to secure a free Western-democratic society with freedom of expression. Many Muslims in our country have fled their Islamic homelands because they no longer want to live by medieval, barbaric rules of a Sharia. And then they are partially caught here by mechanisms that run into clubs where pressure is exerted on them: why they don't go into the mosque, why they don't go into the club, why their children don't wear a headscarf and much more, much more. That is exactly what is bad if, in the end, more possibilities are offered to radical Islam in Austria and it opens its door and gate. In the end, the liberal and moderate Muslims are also confronted, as are many Christian refugees from these countries, whether Copts, Syrian Christians or Iraqi Christians who have fled to us and have sought protection here. Unfortunately, with your policy you do exactly the opposite of this and unfortunately promote the Islamization of Austria, because you ignore and ignore certain problems and because you also ignore and ignore the legitimate fears and concerns of the population. This is particularly dangerous. According to law, preaching and religious teaching must not be held in German, even in the care of the soul in prisons this is not the case, even in mosques. Of course, it's hard to transfer haters too. It is difficult for constitutional protection and executives to follow the preaching work accordingly. We know from the prisons in particular that there is a particular danger of radicalization and is being lived there. By the way, the defendant in Denmark was one who was radicalized there because of a crime in prison, then wanted to travel to Syria as a jihadist, as a so-called war of God. I say they're not God's warriors, they're devil warriors! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Otherwise, one cannot call these murderers and beasts, who have mass heads, cut off their heads and kill masses, because one has a different attitude, another faith. – But he was prevented from travelling to Syria. The result and the result were: He then committed the attack in Denmark. That is why I sometimes ask how laissez fair one sometimes deals with this problem, and say that many things are also homemade. We must, of course, take radicalisation seriously in Austria. The law allows Muslims to lead children and young people through all religious customs in the future. These are not more defined, not more determined: all religious customs, so it is in the law. So what's that? Is that also circumcision? Is that the murder of honor? Are the other things that do not, of course, conform to our laws? [[Abg. Lopatka: Please! Genocide is a “religious custom ”?]] I wonder what you're calling on. [[Abg. Lopatka: Mr. Strache, watch out for a little bit!]] Many court hearings point out that there are cultural, religious reasons. [[Abg. Lopatka: Honor murder a “religious custom ”?- Oh, my God!]] There have even been proceedings in the European Union, where this has led to sanctions. This is the immense thing that no one can understand anymore. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If one then defines the customs so foolishly, with such brazen terms, then perhaps this can also be understood as a free letter for radical Islamists to pass on non-cultural patterns of behaviour, stately legitimately establishing a parallel society. This cannot be in the sense of an Islam law. If you don't have to speak German, of course you also have Islamist Hasspradiger free train. – And I say: In order to create the craftsmanship, the authorities must be able to understand what is being preached! Just as questionable is the sole power of representation of an association such as the Islamic community in Austria. We have laws according to which every community of faith must have members. Whether this is the Catholic Church, whether it is the evangelical Church, whether it is the Jewish community: It is also necessary to ensure and prove members. It cannot be that an Islamic faith community goes here and says that all children who register in Austria at a school for Islamic religious instruction will almost be involved in it. There needs membership – they don't exist! Therefore, these do not meet the basic legal requirements of our view. There is also a case pending before the Constitutional Court for nothing. You should ask that! I also wonder why there are no principles of faith presented by the Islamic community of Austria to date. Of course, every community of faith has to present its principles of faith so that one knows: What are those principles of faith? What's being taught? Is this also to be questioned according to our legal situation or critically? – Unfortunately, that is missing from God! It cannot be said that an association that does not have members and therefore has no legitimacy to speak for all Muslims in Austria, it partly also lives openly: Well, we just want Sunni with us anyway, the Shiites we don't pick up at all, they haven't lost anything with us! – These are developments where I say that one cannot pretend that this Islamic community in Austria is speaking for all Muslims. In other words: Ladies and gentlemen, the Islam law that you have presented is unfortunately, in our opinion, a coup of God. It does not in any way fulfil the needs we would need. It passes the targets and is ineffective. As long as all the open questions I have raised are not resolved within the meaning of the Austrians, this is not a reasonable decision. I would also like to point out: It is really more than regrettable and terrifying that jihadists – people who have traveled from Austria to Syria to fight there for jihadists, speak terrorists – are not automatically deprived of citizenship, but only if they have a double citizenship. This is a disparity! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Every Austrian citizen who works for a military organization automatically loses it. Here you have not implemented this, and that is irresponsible because ultimately radical terrorists, murderers come back, partly living among us today, partly running around as ticking time bombs. That's dangerous. You can't say that otherwise. This also shows how little determined you are when it comes to dealing with these misdevelopments. This is a sad circumstance. But we will not let go of this, even though it is always put into space, that those who rightly warn of misdevelopments will be insulted as hetzers. I'll tell you: Ignorance of real problems is the worst in a society! Not the doctor who recognizes a disease, recognizes symptoms of a disease and decrees the right therapy, is the evil one and the guilty one. The disease we have in our society today is radicalization in many areas. On the other hand, all of us should actually be very determined together – and I miss that!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e17087	Mr Wittmann is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e17108	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Referring to my previous speaker, I would like to say that it is a law governing the exercise of religion in Austria – no longer and no less – as we have many laws governing the exercise of religion in other fields and in other faiths. [[Congratulation with SPÖ and ÖVP]] I think your speech is a social divisional speech. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: My goodness!]] Integration does not take place via splitting! Integration does not take place through division, and if one is now constantly claiming that one wants to fight radical political Islam and terrorism, and throws them all into a pot, then this is a division that is not right, a generalization that is opposed and has nothing to do with a law on religious practice! [[Abg. Kickl: Then you have to start with your naivety!]] [[Abg. Strache: Did you not listen? You should have listened!]] [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Your speech was already finished before you started listening!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] If I say why there is not a Minaret ban or a Burka ban: It is neither a building order nor a clothing law, but the practice of religion to exercise this exercise of religions. [[Abg. Wheeler: Blue wish concert!]] I think it's a very balanced law. In this law, the moderate forces of the Islamic faith community were very much involved – decisively! They have also been actively involved in shaping this law and making it acceptable to norm users. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] The fact that there are more radical and moderate forces within the community of faith must be noted because the more radical forces do not agree with this law either. But that also means: Why don't they agree? Now I can explain to you what's really in it. We have granted rights and obligations. The duty is that now the official imams from foreign countries employed there as officials should no longer be able to inform the mosque within a year. That is to say, foreign funding has been held there. [[Abg. Kickl: But you don't believe that yourself!]] That is, on the other hand, a right was granted to occupy a chair at the university, where Islamic faith is taught and the Imams are also trained. [[Abg. Kickl: They'll rub their hands when they listen to you!]] In this way they are trained in Austria, they are trained in the context of Austrian traditions and the legal situation of Austria. That's the right they get through it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] But on the other hand, this is very likely to be a way of dealing with radical preachers, for they have to organize themselves under the Islamic community or among the Alevites. If they are organized under the Islamic faith community, the Islamic community can approve a cult community that can then preach. Thus it is also the responsibility of the Islamic community to distinguish itself from radical forces. [[Abg. Strache: The radical associations are further financed by abroad...!]] This demarcation is also a responsibility that the faith community has. The second is: If it does not come to the approval of a cultus community – look at § 8 exactly! – and is nevertheless preached in these clubs, then as the association authority, I have the opportunity to resolve because the purpose of the association is exceeded or not fulfilled. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Kickl.]] This is the first hand, even in clubs, to give room to radical preachers. [[Abg. Kickl: That's what we're looking at!]] This is a possibility which this law gives to the You want to deny – consciously because you all throw into a pot or shave over a comb. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] The second story is: Why is not preached in German? – Please, we have the principle of equality: All religious societies can preach in the language they want. There are Christian religious communities preaching in Spanish, Italian, Latin, Greek, Polish. All languages are being preached, and that is the diversity that makes up our state! [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] This is the diversity that the religions make up, and that is living integration: that one also allows one to experience and exercise one's religion in their own traditions. [[Abg. Kickl: No, that's not integration...!]] [[Abg. Strache: Now we know at least your integration model!]] [[Abg. Kickl: Mr. Kurz wanted everything in German until he came up with that complicated...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] All that is happening here is: only to regulate the practice of religion is determined by law here, and not to divide society, and not to fight terrorism. There are other laws to this end. [[Abg. Terrorism splits society, believe me!]] By the way, what you said is wrong: Someone who has fought in a foreign army is to deny citizenship. – An army means having a hierarchical structure, building a state, and having a state. [[Abg. Street: The Islamic State...!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] If one were to do so and deny citizenship, that would mean implicit recognition that the Islamic State is a state of this international community. In principle, we reject that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] This is not a state of the international community, but a self-proclaimed state. [[Abg. Kickl: But if they fight the Islamic State in the alien legion in the desert...!]] Therefore, you would recognize the Islamic State through this detour, which we strictly reject. We reject this state! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Long speech, short sense: It is important not to split society. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] It is also necessary to give that part of society, namely those who practice this religion, the possibility of religious practice, the unimpeded exercise of religion. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Come to Krems to the SPÖ-trimming table...!]] They will really not be able to argue that people who live over generations in this country who live for more than 50 years over three generations in that country are not part of that country. These are people who are Austrians, are Austrian citizens and maintain Islamic faith. These are people who belong to Austria and are also part of Austria! Therefore, it is to be refused to split here, but one must try to integrate!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e17452	Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Korun. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e17497	Mr President. Dear gentlemen on the government bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The members of the Liberal Group are obviously very nervous because they are constantly calling in. But we've expected that anyway. Ladies and gentlemen in the gallery! Dear guests! Dear ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens at home! The current Islam law is exactly 103 years old, it dates back to 1912. That such a law calls for the needs of the 21st century. Century, the needs of a modern society, as it is our Austrian society, cannot be met, is obvious. It was comprehensible... [[Abg. Kickl: What year is the ABGB?]] Mr Kickl, perhaps I can remind you of our basic European values, of our democratic values. [[Abg. Kickl: I'm just asking!]] [[Abg. Kickl: This is still older, but still valid!]] They also include freedom of speech... [[Abg. Kickl: Yes, but from what year is the General Civil Code?]] I already understand the nervousness of the liberals, yes. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But maybe you'll let me talk. Perhaps European values that you always wear on your lips, including your colleagues in Parliament, will apply. [[Abg. Kickl: Maybe the ABGB is still valid!]] [[Further call-ins]] The fact that a modernisation of the Islam law was sensible and necessary and is obvious is obvious. We have also supported this, namely a modern, transparent Islam law, which lays down transparent rights and obligations for such a law to be addressed. [[Abg. Wheeler: But?]] Muslims are, of course, part of Austrian society, as are Jews, as are atheists, as are Buddhists, as are Christians, and all the people who live in this country, whether they have a faith or whether they are agnostics or atheists. [[Abg. Wheeler: But?]] I say that – nothing but, Mr colleague – I say that as an Austrian who comes from a Muslim family and there is no But. [[Abg. Rädler: It's coming!]] [[Abg. Rädler: Then you agree!]] I would like to praise this law, which is to be praised, and to criticize what is to be criticized. I'll start with the positive. It is to be expressly welcomed that an education at an Austrian university, at a high university level, is finally implemented transparently for emerging Austrian Imams. It is to be expressly welcomed that Austrian Imams should be formed in the medium and long term from people born and/or raised here, who know Austrian society, who know the needs and living conditions of Austrian Muslims. It is to be expressly welcomed that this Islam law regulates the issue of Islamic cemeteries, but also the pastoral care in hospitals, nursing homes or also the federal army. We expressly welcome these points. Then, unfortunately, there are points which we do not welcome and which, since the draft ministerial draft has also been criticised, we have also, last but not least, in the Constitutional Committee. These points are, unfortunately, very serious. [[Abg. Rädler: Now we're at the Aber!]] I'm starting with the general suspicion of Muslims and Muslims. Why Do I Say “General Suspect ”? – Because Islam's law is written several times: The Muslims have to comply with the laws. – Well, of course they have to comply with the laws! All have to comply with the laws in Austria, regardless of religion or whether anyone has a faith at all or not. [[Abg. Kickl: But that will be in the law of 1912 as well...!]] [[Abg. Lopatka: That's nothing new!]] This is not a new one, ladies and gentlemen, and it is also a constitutional one. However, when you write into Islam law at several places – and this is the proposal of our Federal Government – Muslims have to comply with the laws, although the current legal situation is and, of course, this applies to all: What does that mean? – That means that the Islam law speaks a general suspicion to the Muslims: [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] You tend not to comply with the laws, so we write this several times into Islam's law. This point alone would be sufficient reason not to agree to this law. I continue with a second point, foreign financing. The Federal Government has said that the separation of state and religion provides that the Austrian state, for example, is not allowed to pay Imame. - Completely right. The Federal Government continues to say: Then a foreign state, such as Saudi Arabia or Qatar, or Turkey, cannot pay Austrian Imame either. – Also true, fully comprehensible. But what does the Federal Government do? – She says: Well, start foundations! And she's just saying, "I'm not saying anything." Now we create a foundation constellation, foreign funds can flow there. We all know that foundations are not exactly the most transparent form in which the state, government or the public would have an insight. This does not guarantee that you really change something about the current situation. It cannot be the solution to simply move the current problems that have been recognized into a foundation constellation. I am in favour of the requirement of transparency of financial and other grants from abroad for all publicly recognized religious communities. That makes sense, that is understandable, and we wanted to do so together, but not a relatively sparse foundational constellation, where you cannot guarantee that long-term flows of money from abroad and thus an influence, possibly also a political influence, are really held back from abroad. The requirement of transparency of financial grants for all recognized religious communities is also the proposal of the two constitutional lawyers Professor Funk and Professor Öhlinger. I cannot see why the Federal Government has not followed this proposal, namely to create transparency among all recognised religious communities, in terms of long-term flows of money from abroad and thus a potential influence from abroad. In conclusion: There are also positive things to this law, but the negatives outweigh the positives at Weitem. [[Abg. Wheeler: field of view!]] That is why we will not agree. We agree with the referral request to the Constitutional Committee so that we can discuss these points, which I could only partially mention in the short time of the speech, together and find solutions together. – Thank you many times for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e17726	Mr Klubobmann spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e17748	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Minister! The debate we are having here today is, in my opinion, one of the most important things we have to do across Europe about the future of our continent and a possible peaceful co-existence. And a small contribution to this, no more and no less, can be this new Islam law. The debate is not just being held with us. “Is Islam fitting to Germany?” asked the “FOCUS” last week. It is also good that this debate has arrived in Austria. [[The speaker keeps the front page of an issue of the “Small Newspaper” up to date.]] “ Islam, approach to a foreign world” was worth a cover page to the “Small Newspaper”. Yes, the debates are to be held, they are important. In politics, however, debates are too few. We must give answers, as clear as possible, in order not to allow within the population the fears that are there to grow. Whether the fears are right now or not, if they are there, the policy must give answers to these fears and should not contribute to the increasing of these fears. There have been clear answers here: After this terrible terrorist attack happened in Paris, the German Chancellor Angela Merkel made one clear. She clearly opposed the exclusion of Muslims in Germany by saying: “ Islam belongs to Germany. And that's it. I am also of this opinion.” – That is what pastor daughter Angela Merkel says. We have also discussed this subject within a clause of the ÖVP. The clear answer you missed from our government partner, Klubobmann Strache, has also come from our party observer. And there we differ from the position of the liberals. If today in Vienna we have a share of more than 10 percent of the population of Vienna who see Islam as their faith and are also represented by the Islamic community, if in Austria, you have said 400 000, we have numbers who speak of more than 500,000 living here with us and say that I am Muslim, I am Muslim – as I say I am Christian – then I cannot say that this is not part of our society. I don't understand you, quite frankly. I understand what you're following. And once you've betrayed yourself, Klubobmann Strache. They were more careful. But your question: Are Genocide Murder Part of a Religious Customs? Genocide as a Religious Customs? – That has already shown what you really want. [[Abg. Strache: Now I'm already responsible for the murder of honor, right?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Strache: I am certainly not responsible for the murder of honor!]] You want to be afraid, I'll tell you. You're trying to startle fear, you want to rip digs! And exactly the opposite would be your task! Don't startle fear and tear up tombs, Klubobmann stitch! Don't bring homicide in connection with religion, with religious custom! Don't do that! [[Abg. Kickl: This has nothing to do with each other?]] You have raised this question here. That has already shown what you are actually following here. And I'll tell you one thing: We need to be careful here. [[Abg. Kickl: Yes, just be careful!]] We must be careful not to put religious communities in a false corner. You know what story we share together. We had 200 000 Jews in Austria in 1935. Now, after the Holocaust, after 70,000 Austrian Jews were found to have been murdered in World War II, we have only more than 14,000. Yes, the Jewish community is, of course, a part of Austrian society – I say quite consciously here. [[Abg. Kickl: You have hopefully listened to what the Lord has said about Islam in German!]] If religious communities are active in Austria, it is our task to make clear legal provisions. And that's what we're doing with Islam's law. Because we, as the Austrian People's Party, also see the positive of religious communities. We see the achievements of religious communities. Meaningful teachings can help people in many situations of life to cope with their lives. Religious communities also play an enormous role in the social, charitable field. The Austrian religious communities, often led by Cardinal Schönborn, succeed in representing together in the dialogue concerns of the religious communities. The President-in-Office again and again, when it becomes delicate, invites all the religious communities that are recognized by us to talk. We are in favour of this, since we stand for a liberal, open state, for an open society that religious communities in Austria should have the opportunity to develop. Our understanding of tolerance, however, has clear limits. The border is where there are violations of human rights. That's where we want to suffocate that in the germ. This law is also borne by it. [[Abg. Street: Abdullah center! Stones! Executions! Expulsions!]] I'll tell you: We want to scare people. We want to push back the influence of radicals, and wherever something appears – it has already been said by my previous speaker Wittmann – we will do everything we can to fight radicals, we will do everything, we will not allow anything, I tell you. In the germ we want to suffocate that wherever there is a suspicion. But: This should not endanger the personal freedom of citizens. This includes religious freedom, not just ours, but worldwide. That's a concern to us! This law also contributes to this. It is a contribution to legal certainty! [[Call the FPÖ:Legal uncertainty!]] Why do we write in this law, which has been criticized by you, this priority of state law? – First of all, this is nothing new. Maybe know. It is not for them to be recognized with us a religious community, that is to say, the preeminence of state law in teaching, in institutions, in customs. And by the way: Even in the old Islam law, this was already held. So nothing new. But if we hadn't held this right now, it might have increased the fear of some people. Why? – Because there are people who are on the go and startle fear. They would have just taken this for granted and said: Now the priority of state law is not even in the law, so to speak, Islam has prevailed here. Some would have said: The Sharia is in the foreground. That is why I say to you: It is our task to make laws here, not just for the particular group concerned, which are the people who belong to this community of faith, 500 000. We are making the law for all citizens, and that is 8.5 million in Austria. We also want to give them this security that, of course, state law goes on in all religious communities. The Greens today, if I may say so, as we are talking about a religious law, are more papal than the Pope. [[Call the ÖVP:Genau!]] Why? – The President of the Islamic Faith in Austria Fuat Sanaç personally said to me: Yeah, we didn't achieve everything, but I can carry this law. Since 2012, Sebastian has been negotiating briefly, since 2012, over three years. You want to refer back now. Three years has been prepared for this law, ladies and gentlemen. I also had a long discussion with the speaker of the Alevites, with Riza Sari, who also told me how happy he is about this legal regulation and that he can, of course, contribute to it. We have also tried to involve these two recognised representations. We've heard from both of them, they can carry it. The Greens can't. I take note of that. I still lack understanding. The law, ladies and gentlemen, is a good one, an important one, which is taken into account throughout Europe. I am very glad that we are not behind us, but are among the first in Europe to make a good legal settlement. It is a shame that not all political groups can give their approval to this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e17897	Mrs Lintl spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e17918	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! We really appreciate the intention of the new Islam law. Unfortunately, the goal is beyond that, because the law simply cannot be implemented in this way. I would like to make a few points. The first point is the ban on the financing of culturing from abroad. – This is to be welcomed in principle. But this demand is half-hearted, because there are circumvention possibilities, for example, through aid associations and through foundations. We therefore demand that all funding of foreign organisations and states for mosques and religious communities in Austria be excluded in the future. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Another point is that no one knows whether the religious content of the Islamic faiths also conforms to Austrian laws. There's just no Islam. There are moderate and more radical currents. We demand that the teachings of faith, traditions and customs, as with other religions, be revealed in German, because only then are they verifiable. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and the FPÖ representatives.]] And we don't want them to be spread in mosques only in secret. In Austria there are 460 of these mosques. Like the cultum that everyone wants to control, that's obscene to me. [[call to the FPÖ.]] It is precisely these mosque associations that are to be converted into cultural societies that reveal their beliefs and can therefore be better controlled. But when you look closely you see that there is also a back door here and just a simple change of name of the club is necessary, and already it can continue to exist. This rear door of course also discovered the clubs, and already on the 14th. In February, Bosnian and Turkish associations, including the ATIB and the Millî Görüş, decided at a joint meeting that they would be renamed in case of need. All of this takes place under the umbrella organisation of the IGGiÖ. This is the Islamic community in Austria with which you, my lords, have negotiated this Islamic law for many years, as we have just heard. This IGGiÖ has no mosque in Austria. [[Abg. Strache: Faith without Church!]] It has never applied for recognition in the past and therefore never had to disclose its principles of faith. [[Abg. Kickl: That's going to be enough!]] At present, the Constitutional Court is even examining whether this IGGiÖ has a legal basis at all. We believe that the legal basis of the IGGiÖ must be demonstrated by the Constitutional Court before granting further competence to IGGiÖ in the law. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and FPÖ.]] We also want this law to be discussed once again in the relevant bodies, and we therefore call for referral back to the Constitutional Committee. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and FPÖ.]] Another point I would like to address briefly concerns the food rules for Muslims, the Halal. According to Islam law, religious societies are now entitled to organise the production of meat products and other foods in Austria in accordance with their rules. We disagree here too. In our opinion, this should only be possible if there is a corresponding commercial license and if Austrian laws are complied with, namely the trade regulations, hygiene regulations and animal welfare. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and the FPÖ representatives.]] I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I'm asking for acceptance.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e18029	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e18094	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e18115	The fact is that the law negotiated by Minister Kurz and Minister Ostermayer and others is a new country. It will then be seen to what extent this is proven in practice and will see that, if individual points still need to be improved, this will be done. I believe that there must be order and transparency, but there must be a little rethinking, because many think in these traditional Christian-Christian thought buildings. The Islamic religious communities are not united, they have no Rome and no Pope and there is everything else, and therefore it is new country. Therefore, in a variety of discussions, one must try to get this aspect of order in. I do not share Angela Merkel's view that Islam is part of Germany in this form. [[Abg. Kickl: Bravo!]] I believe that we must always say that we want a synthesis between a Koran interpretation and an interpretation of the religious practice, which is the synthesis with the values in Europe and with the European Enlightenment. [[Abg. Strache: This is more Christian than the ÖVP!]] I think this is a very essential aspect, because these are the ones with which we – you were not my exclusive audience; in fact, everyone here was meant – can also oppose those who have an interpretation of the Qur'an or Islam, which then goes into politics. [[demostratetive appeal to the FPÖ]] That is why we want this order and this transparency, so that in the exercise of religion in individual mosques, there is no disseminating content that comes close to the contents of the Islamic State. Well, that's easy. I don't think there's anything to be kept secret about, but that's the background when we're trying to bring this order in here. It is indeed so when the calif says that the black flag is supposed to blow over Rome, then of course this is also another call to us that we are opposed to it. But there is a positive example, namely the calibre of Córdoba, you will all know exactly; from the years 711 to 1492 it has succeeded for centuries on European soil that Muslims, Jews, Christians have worked together. A high flower of culture, science. [[Abg. Strache: This is a hateful example of history!]] It's possible! It was possible! It should be possible! Therefore, I believe that the aim is that there is this type of integration. That there is this kind of integration that defines us as an open society, not as a divided society, but as an open society in which it is possible for us to organize our living together peacefully and constructively and for the benefit of all. Of course, enemy images have lost nothing. That's clear, because that's against it. But what we have to say is that we have to be vigilant and we have to look closely at how this development is going about. And that's this law, which in terms of religious practice seeks exactly that. Then there will be a chair. It must be one who confesses himself as a Muslim. That will be an authority, I hope, in this discussion, to which one can also appeal. And if there has been this debate on foreign funding, it has also been because in the countries from which this foreign funding has partly come, the exercise of religion has also received a political interpretation. That was one of the reasons why they said that. I think it is right in the final effect that we have addressed this in the form, and I am speaking it out. If we now, I hope, get under control of this law, then, I believe, we have done something for everyone, especially for those of the Islamic religious community who, together with us, want to go the way of democracy, the separation of state and religion and are on the basis of European values and of Austrian self-conception and Austrian self-culture. That is the purpose, and once again thanks to the negotiators, to Minister Ostermayer, to Minister Kurz and all the others who have contributed here, including from the Islamic community, who also stand for it and represent it.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e18187	Mr Scherak. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e18209	Mr President. Mr. Minister! I believe that the essential point is – one cannot repeat it often enough, Mr Wittmann has already said it at the outset – that it is a law that should regulate the external legal relations of Islamic religious societies. It is not an answer to the terrorist attacks in Paris, but it is a law to regulate the external legal conditions of this religious society. That's where we should all be in agreement. We have heard that the law has been treated for years. That means that it can't be a response to it just in time. Then I do not understand that Mr Wittmann here says towards FPÖ that you should not throw everyone into a pot. I see that as well, but then I do not understand why, among other things, you do exactly that in this law. The question of general suspicion has already been raised. This law states that state law is before religious law. That is something that is basically quite logical. We write in that the religious society can only be recognized if it has a positive basic attitude towards state and society. That too is something that is quite clear. That is the case in our rule of law. Mr Klubobmann Lopatka said that it was in the past too. That's also in the recognition law. Now I notice two things. First: Just because it used to be inside, it doesn't mean that it's still right now that you have to write it in extra. And second: They have already given the answer themselves, because it is already in the recognition law. That is why I do not have to write it explicitly into this law. There are very different aspects in the opinion of the OSCE, for example. It clearly criticised the fact that the issue of freedom of assembly and the prohibition of any assemblies were written down. By the way, this is also stated in the Israelite law, but that is not necessary because it is clearly so in the law. Every time you write such things in extra, of course you put all Muslims under a general suspicion, and we should not do that in this very hot mood that is currently in place. [[Congratulation with NEOS and Greens.]] In my view, there are still many constitutional problems in the law. The topic of foreign financing has already been addressed. It is so in Austria that the principle of equality states that we should treat everything that is the same. But now there is no such ban on permanent foreign funding for other religious societies. Minister Ostermayer! I often asked you where you read this. I haven't got a reply to it until today. That means that we would treat different religious societies differently here. Now I assume that this does not contradict the principle of equality, but then I do not understand because your intention – and we all share here – is that we do not want to have permanent funding of the Islamic religious community from abroad, why you explicitly write in the explanations on how to deal with this whole thing. We've already heard about the foundation constructions. I don't understand, that doesn't make sense. The goal, I think, would have been shared here, but you explicitly write in here how you can handle it. Another criticism is the legal problem. On the one hand, we have a problem with the fundamental right, namely that freedom of association is valid, and on the other hand – and this again is the intention – that all who are now organized as an association should be accommodated in the corresponding religious society. Now, however, there is the problem in Islam that many different currents exist, and all those associations that do not want to be subordinated there will now, as we have heard before, change the name. I think they're more likely to change the purpose, and They will continue as they have been. Even though the intention was here again – the colleague Wittmann did this – that one tries to get hold of the hate - preachers who hold the corresponding sermons, then they will continue to follow it under a different name and with a different purpose. So, fact is, Islam is treated differently here, that is, more rigorously, than other religions. The fact is that the objectives pursued by this law on and on its own cannot be achieved. The fact is that the whole opposition – I find this exciting, because I have heard that only a few do not agree before – is not acceptable, though partly for different reasons. It is very clear that we will not agree here, as there are clear constitutional problems. I do not understand why we should adopt this law in this way today.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e18272	Mr Ostermayer spoke on a point of view. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e18293	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I shall start with Mr Scherak and his question, where it would be necessary for the religions to have sufficient resources. – There has been this since 1874, in § 5 recognition law reads: ‘State authorization for the establishment of a cultural community () is conditional on the evidence that the same funds have been available, or can be used in a legally permitted manner, in order to secure the necessary religious institutions, the preservation of the ordinary caregiver and the recovery of a regulated religious teaching.’ [[Abg. Wheeler: Look!]] So that's in the recognition law of 1874. Secondly, on the question of the general suspicion which you have raised, which Mrs Korun has also referred to: We, Federal Minister Kurz and I, have held very intensive talks with the representatives of the IGGiÖ, with the representatives of the ALEVI and so on. We have argued there why we have made this regulation, and it has been understood by many, not by all. The core argument was not that there is a general suspicion, but that we do not want to give in to those who want to play the other – one might want to formulate it harder and say it, to hate it – so that they can do so, and to avoid misunderstandings. Background: § 6 of the current Islam Act states: “Even the teachings of Islam, its institutions and customs enjoy this protection, in so far as they do not conflict with the laws of the State.” Now we all know – I also share a hundred percent – that all people or persons, whether natural or legal, are obliged to comply with the laws. In this respect, the argument with the murder of honor is a completely absurd one, because since in Austria, according to § 75 StGB, murder is prohibited, it is prohibited in every situation, and there is no exception. But in order not to allow the wrong conclusion to be argued, I believe it is reasonable and meaningful that it has been written down in a specific way, and most of the people I have spoken to have accepted it – starting from the President of IGGiÖ to many other representatives we have spoken to, and the ALEVI; thus both of the currently recognized religious societies of Islamic faith. In addition to IGGiÖ, there is also the ALEVI, the Islamic Alevitian community, as a recognized religious society, because it always stands in the room, the Constitutional Court has decided. There have then been aspirations – they may know the whole discussion – the IGGiÖ wanted to have a law of its own. We have explained that this is not possible because there are two recognized religious societies, and have therefore done this division in the law. We – with “we” I always mean my colleagues Kurz, the cultuum and many others – have had a very intense dialogue, in which we have also presented our borders. And one of these limits was the topic of foreign financing. Now you're asking: Does that even work? So I just refer to today's opinions, both from Turkey and from ATIB, which are deeply criticising this point. They would probably not criticize him if they thought it was ineffective. To Mr Klubobmann Strache – it is a pity that he is not here now because I would have liked to tell him personally, but I experience this from time to time that the presence is not given if you can hear the answer –: [[Abg. Korun: That's what we're used to!]] That was the most radical issue of the Islam law that I have experienced throughout the discussion. It was clear to everyone so far that we were talking about a religious law. Also the constitutional basis of my competence, that I am responsible for religious law, contributes to this. We have had the goal, starting from the Islam Dialogue Forum – in between it has fallen a little asleep, then I became responsible in March – that we step up the dialogue so that we can achieve a result as quickly as possible, which can also be carried wide. It has all been clear that we are talking about religious law, that we are not talking about school law; we have also had this discussion with Mr Walser. That's another matter. We're not talking about a police law, we're not talking about a security law, we're not talking about a terrorist law. For this there are other legal materials, where this is regulated, where in part we have also carried out intensifications. The prohibition of terrorism, for example, applies regardless of whether a religion is abused which religion is misused, which is a general rule. The topic of Islamic State: There have also been some who have asked whether it is useful to decide the Islam Law in the present phase. We agreed with the faith communities that we should not be prevented from doing so in the legislative process or that we should not focus the legislative process on whether or not any insane terrorist acts are carried out, just as we or you as legislators cannot be prevented from making a complaint to the Constitutional Court. If we take this into account, then every legislative process can be interrupted, aborted, delayed by anyone making a constitutional complaint, for example by claiming that the IGGiÖ is not a recognized religious community. By the way, the Constitutional Court has not granted any delaying effect. What we did after an intensive dialogue is that we took into account the law of 1912, in which we all felt that it no longer regulates certain areas in a form as we are used to under the rule of law, as they should be regulated – originally there was the desire to novice this law only – and now takes into account certain developments that have occurred over the last 103 years. This includes the protection of the name, the protection of the religious community, and therefore there are certain conditions of recognition, so there are certain requirements, which, as it were, need to be regulated inside, statistically, and what needs to be regulated externally. There is also the requirement that a teaching written in the official language of German should be presented, an interpretation of the legal sources and religious sources must be made. There was never the discussion that there must be a unity in German. [[Abg. Kickl: Oh, yeah?! But the short explains this later!]] There's practically no such thing as that. Who wants to read details about this: Today there was an interview in the “standard” with a scientist who explained that the language of the Qur’an is very uncertain, poetic, and in fact the question always arises as to how it is interpreted. We have also called for the interpretation of the legal sources – that is the representation of the doctrine. Otherwise, we make arrangements for the training of the Imame, i.e. an Islamic-theological study, to the care of souls in prisons, in hospitals, in the federal army. Finally, I would like to thank all those who have worked very intensively, very constructively in all the discussions that have been held in the meantime also because of, as I think, communication problems within the faith community. I thank the head of the cult of Mag. Henhapel, the Ministry of Integration, my colleague, Mr Kurz, the religious communities, religious communities, the constitutional service, which has once again looked very closely at whether this is constitutionally okay. We've heard this in the hearing that's been done in the meantime. Of course, I also thank the employees in our cabinets. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e18379	Mr Bundesminister spoke briefly on a point of view. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e18401	Mr President. Dear Minister Ostermayer! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I should like to join Minister Ostermayer and say once again that I believe that the Islam Law is a very important step for us, for living together in Austria. It is also an opportunity for Islam to develop independently in Austria, without prejudice and without pressure from abroad. There must be no contradiction in Austria to be a self-confident Austrian and, at the same time, a faithful Muslim, and that was always the intention behind this law. I would like to introduce, since this was also part of the discussion today, that the law cannot and must not be a response to terrorism. We started working on this law three years ago, for a year in the dialogue forum Islam with the Islamic faith community, then they together with Minister Ostermayer put them into a draft law, so many, I would say, have had countless rounds of discussion with the Islamic community and also with the Islamic Alevitian community until we came to a draft which has gone through the Council of Ministers and which is now before Parliament. From my point of view, this law clearly regulates rights and obligations of the Muslims in Austria, and it tries to counter them in the event of misdevelopments that we are also experiencing in Austria. The rights have already been raised, the obligations have also been addressed; I may still be allowed to deal with the wrong developments. The Imams from abroad, but also the permanent financing from abroad, are a way not only to influence religiously and not only to create dependencies, but also to influence social policy in Austria. I think it is legitimate for us to try to counter that we are taking one step with this law to push back this influence. Some have mentioned that it would be wrong to counter this or that it is an unequal treatment of Islamic religion in Austria. I believe that it is only possible to speak of inequality if the conditions and conditions are the same. In the other religions, we do not have the preachers who are sent from abroad to Austria, who are employees of other governments, nor do we have foreign investment and permanent support, as is the case with Islam in Austria. There is therefore a problem which is by no means comparable with the situation in other religions, and I therefore find it difficult to deal with this constant accusation of inequality, because our constitution is really very clear. We have a separation of state and religion in Austria. According to our constitution, it would not be possible for the government directly to appoint and pay a priest to work in Austria. It is not possible that Angela Merkel employs a pastor or a pastor, sent to Austria and paid here. In this respect, it is also legitimate to say that we do not want to be Imams, the employees of other governments abroad, who are preaching and working here in Austria. There is no inequality in treatment, but I believe that this law corresponds to what is already provided for in our constitution, namely a separation of state and religion and the self-sustainability of the respective religious communities. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Pendl.]] Mr. Scherak, you have mentioned that this is not the same thing. – I do not share these concerns, because the framework conditions here are simple and touchingly different, and if we observe that today, for example, the Turkish religious authority exhibits massive resistance and is having massive criticism of this law, then we note that on the one hand we have made an essential point that some people fear for their influence in the past, but on the other hand, we also note that these phenomena are so simple and momentous in other religions. Mrs Korun referred to the fact that she fears that the Muslims will be put under a general suspicion. – I mean, you have to be very careful with the role of sacrifice, because it is simple and it is just as wrong, as Muslims constantly condemn as perpetrators. We have had an Islam law in Austria since 1912, which provides for and clearly regulates that state law has priority. [[Abg. Korun: That's true anyway!]] I think it is absolutely legitimate, as in the Confession Community Act, to actually enter this priority of national law. [[Abg. Korun: It's not in the concordat!]] I believe that it would have been a fundamental false signal not to write down this priority, and I also believe that it is absolutely right, especially because of the current discussions we are experiencing over and over again, because of the people who may also want to misinterpret laws, to clearly and clearly define the priority of state law here. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Finally, I would like to raise the following very briefly: Is Islam part of Austria, yes or no? – In my opinion, he belongs to Austria. We have recognised Islam as the first country in Europe in 1912, and I believe we must be very careful when we deny realities. We have over 500 000 Muslims in Austria, they are a natural part of Austria. We have had an Islam law since 1912, recognize religion, so it is also part of our country. It is important – similar to the immigration debate – to address problems and find solutions. It does not help us to pretend that we are not a country of immigration, although we have experienced massive immigration for decades. It does not help us to act as if there were no Islam in Austria, although we have over 500 000 Muslims, so I am always a fan of addressing the realities clearly and finding solutions to problems and challenges. [[Abg. Kickl: You're confusing a few things!]] I believe that Islam law is a good way to regulate rights and obligations. I believe that it is perfectly safe in the speech of misdevelopments, and if, Mrs Korun, the IGGiÖ and also the Islamic Alevitian community agree with this law, I believe that it is also possible to approve this bill as Parliament. On the other hand, I should like to ask the question as you justify before the Islamic-Alevite believers in Austria that you do not give your consent to this law, which is strongly supported by this group – and that is a group for which you have repeatedly used it. [[Abg. Street: The liberal Muslims and the Shiites reject it!]] [[Abg. Korun: I don't have a speaking time now!]] I ask once again for approval and I should like to conclude by thanking Federal Minister Ostermayer for the good cooperation in this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e18504	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Gerstl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e18526	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! It has been said in the discussion, I think. Therefore, I would simply like to thank the two Federal Ministers – not enough for their mutual thanks. I also believe that we can come to the next step and say: This is an example not only for Austria, it is a model for Europe. [[Abg. Stache: Good night!]] This is a point where we can go with pride, because we have succeeded in coming to a bill that is really recognised in Europe thanks to the initiative of our Foreign Minister and then State Secretary Sebastian Kurz, with the opening of the Islam Dialogue Forum. [[Call the FPÖ:Abdullah Centre!]] Not only the Foreign Minister, but also many other people have already been addressed – I myself have received requests from radio stations or interview requests from Holland and Germany – how and why we have managed to develop this Islam law – such a progressive law. [[Abg. Blow: Congratulations!]] You should be proud of this, Mr Strache, and not try to produce the negative, but what was necessary for that was done. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: No, I am glad for you that you have received interview requests from Holland!]] This is the current Islam law of 1912. [[the speaker shall keep a document up to date]] No one will believe that it would be useful to maintain the law of 1912 even further, but on the contrary: [[Abg. Kickl: Because it's shorter?- Oh, my God!]] It was necessary to put this law on a new basis a hundred years later, to build a new law on the fact that we have discussed it with all the forces in the Islamic faith that the reasonable forces have cooperated here. It was necessary to create a religious law that clearly focused on what it is supposed to be to ensure the internal religious exercise of a religious society; on the other hand, what has been demanded by colleagues, namely the security of the state, in our laws falling within the scope of the BMI, is regulated. We have already decided in the Committee on the Interior and here in plenary that there are dangers arising from the Islamic State and not within the framework of religious laws, for one thing is quite clear to me: Abuse of religion must always be fought, but it can never be fought by a religious law, but always only by state laws, for it always contradicts the state rule of law. Murderings are never justified, no matter what name or on behalf of which religion they have been committed. That is why it is quite clear that these matters have nothing to do with the content of an Islam law. Thank you once again.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e18627	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Stefan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e18649	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen here in the house! In particular, I welcome the visitor group from the market community Gössendorf very cordially here in the house! [[General condolences.]] But now, back to the law – I want to return to the ground of reality now – let's start with this: Why does this law have to be passed today? – Although we have heard that it has been supposed to be negotiated since 2012, today we are laying the foundation for the religious society IGGiÖ, i.e. the Islamic faith community in Austria, among other things. In this law, which exists today, there are a number of points that must be met by a community of faith. The IGGiÖ does not fulfill these things today, and definitely not. This is also expressly stated in the law. That is to say, we are adopting a law today, which is, as it were, a procrastination by the fact that IGGiÖ is laying its foundations first. We have not yet received any basis of faith from IGGiÖ. Since 2012 it is said that we have been negotiating with the representatives of this community, but we do not have any basis of faith to this day. We don't know how many members they really have. There are elections there, but these elections take place with voters, where a club owner gives 400 votes and the like. We do not know how many members they have, we do not know how to become a member and how to leave. Today, they want to pass a law that governs this religious society IGGiÖ, and then give it until 31. December 2015 time to submit these things. That's absurd! [[Accompaniment with the FPÖ and the Abg. Lintl.]] That's like when I give someone a car mark and tell him to buy the car later and submit the papers. If he does, then everything's nice and good, if not, I've given him the label. So it is with this law. Why do we have to decide today? What urgency exists? Let us first put these things before us, and then we decide a law that establishes a religious society that has presented everything. You can see how this is done. I do not know whether the Members in the ranks of SPÖ and ÖVP even know what they are doing today. That is why I ask you to listen here in peace and look at it again. [[Abg. Rädler shakes the head.]] – You don’t know, I thought so. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The second point is the execution. [[Abg. Rädler: This is a misinterpretation!]] – No, that’s definitely in there! So that's not a misinterpretation, you're sure to be explained right away. [[Abg. Wheelers: No: Yours!]] Second point: The practice of religion takes place, which has already been said today, in the clubs. There are about 460 clubs in which the very heterogeneous Muslim-Islamic religious practice takes place. This law now lays down the following, and I deliberately quote it: “Unifications whose purpose is to spread the religious doctrine of a religious society under this federal law” – and so on – “are dissolved.” So associations that are covered by this religious society, whose foundations of faith we do not yet know, are dissolved. How will this be examined and carried out? – We specifically asked the Ministry of the Interior if it was clarified how this should be examined, and we got the answer: no. How does such an examination take place? – Association education is one of the fundamental rights in Austria. So now associations have formed, and these associations are asked what religious teachings they practice. How can I ask a club to do this? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Even if I can, does the Association Authority check whether the principles of the faith of this association correspond to the IGGiÖ? [[Abg. Strache: The but is not present!]] I think there are some here who know how this is going and who is working in the Association Authority. These are not religious scientists, but these people should now clarify whether what the association is doing in religious practice has been accomplished in IGGiÖ. – That’s completely absurd, that doesn’t work in execution! [[Accompaniment with the FPÖ and the Abg. Lintl.]] Even if the Association Authority believes that its members are religious scientists so far that they can find out: Do our authorities really go here and break up religious associations in Austria? – I am still looking at whether this trusts our authorities when it comes to criticism from abroad or elsewhere. This is not thought through from the front to the back – with the permission. That doesn't matter either, you can make mistakes. That is why we have shown it, and we are also willing to help to formulate it better. Today, however, there is no time to adopt such a law in which, as has been said, the urgency cannot be recognized at all, in which the foundations for the religious society to be founded today are not yet available, and in my opinion, the execution is completely unclear. [[Accompaniment with the FPÖ and the Abg. Lintl.]] We don't need any more polemic or other discussion at all. We don't need to raise this. This is not an export hit, but it might even be embarrassing if it turns out that no associations in Austria have been dissolved, that nothing has been achieved by law and that IGGiÖ may not be able to present its foundations at all. With such a matter, we are going outside, with a law that is not mature today, to be passed at all. That's really wrong! That's why I can only plead for it again: If we return this law to the Constitutional Committee, we clarify these points, we solve these questions – there are many others, I have only consciously picked up these two most essential ones – and then perhaps we are making a sensible law! Then we'll certainly be there too.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e18779	I call Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e18801	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As with so many sensitive and delicate legislative instruments, it is very, very difficult to get out without polemics. One of the problems is that you have different access to this law. I think Mr Gerstl has already mentioned it: If you were to talk about security here, which has nothing to do with the religious law at all, there would be a completely different member of the government. So I really want to know that we are trying, in the legislative areas, where we are currently in a legislative process and today we are taking the decision-making process, to do so in a matter of fact, without constantly polarizing and unnecessarily generating fears here to hold the discussion. I think my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen, this law is in the interests of the entire state, and I do not think, Mrs Korun, that if we discuss it for three years, long before we have held the other discussions on terrorism here, we can't say that the law has been overcrowded or too quickly, or the discussion has been too short. There were three years of discussion on the broadest basis! [[Abg. Korun: I didn't say anything about haste! You're confusing me!]] I am glad that you said that there are many good things in it, because I believe that it is necessary to allow those who simply confess themselves to our state to our legal system to make a clear separation. [[Abg. Korun: You’re always talking about “we ” and “den ”! They belong here!]] I ask you to note that we are really talking about a religious law. We're not in the security field now. I am saying this quite consciously, because we have to deal with such questions elsewhere and we have already dealt with them. When we decided on the first measures in last year, many smiled. Then one has seen that this federal government and this House have made proper decisions in good time – and that is important, I mean. I would like to make an amendment here today so that we can see that everyone has responded and the discussion has taken place. [[Quoted print version removed]] In all these detailed questions, consensus has also been reached with those concerned. As part of the overall assessment, I really invite you to consider once again whether you do not give your consent to this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e18888	The amendment is sufficiently supported, properly introduced and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Walser. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e18914	Mr President. Federal Minister! We do well to discuss such a law as unagitated as possible – Mr. Strache, this is mainly about the Freedom Party – and in fact. A religious law is a religious law and not an anti-radical law. We must therefore also see this from the point of view of a line that we have been following here in this House for a number of years now – a line of religious laws. There have been a number of arguments here; I would like to look at a very special aspect which was not convinced by Mr Ostermayer. [[Federal Minister Ostermayer returns to the meeting room.]] - Oh, he's just coming in time! Mr Minister, I may be able to help you a little bit, as far as your misunderstanding is concerned, why we considered religious teaching so important in this law. [[Call at the FPÖ:What?]] You said that this was another matter, that religious teaching was treated in the religious teaching law and that it was well abolished. That's right, of course. However, I can remind you that in other laws that I mentioned earlier – the Israeli law, for example – we have very probably addressed religious teaching very precisely. The Israelite law, for example, consists of ten paragraphs. A separate section is dedicated to religious teaching there, precisely because it is so important. Now, if we look at the situation in the field of Islamic religious teaching, I think, it is obvious that we have great problems there. These are the problems that we have actually faced in recent years – unfortunately, this is a longer period of time that I have to point out here – from the green side again and again. I am reminded of our criticism of religious books in which martyrdom is glorified – so truly no reading material for Austrian students. I can recall the incident in Graz, where there were courageous students who took part in this religious teaching and said: That's not how it is! They have said that they are very strongly opposed to what their religious teacher gives them for the best, namely, the justification of violence in insulting religion. That's what the students have discovered! The director of the school has acted exemplaryly. The School Authority has then also acted exemplaryly. The central problem is only: This case would never have been revealed by state institutions. The competent inspector was in this school shortly before and has not found anything at all. Maybe he should have dealt with the students a little bit, maybe he should have asked them. I am convinced that he would have come to some conclusions. So there are very specific problems, especially in this area, and if we are making a law, then of course we have to deal with this specific one – this is also an administrative problem, quite certainly, but you have stressed that we want to deal with specific problems with this law. [[Federal Minister Ostermayer: You are talking about administrative problems this!]] And why do we take out exactly this field of religious teaching here? We do not understand that, and that is a very essential reason why we cannot give our approval here today. I should also like to mention one, two other points at least briefly. The subject of general suspicion has already been addressed, and it has been rejected that this law is a general suspicion. Ladies and gentlemen, let's look at what experts say about this. They see this quite differently. Stefan Schima – I think, a recognised personality in this context – criticizes quite vehemently as follows. He says: “The explicit mention that Muslims must comply with Austrian legislation is... Signs of expectation of the state that there are more violations of law in Muslims than in other religious communities.” So if you have facts, please put the facts on the table, then we can talk about such a passage. That's quite clear. But otherwise, it is, of course, the way Stefan Schima rightly criticizes this: a clear violation of the principle of equality. This is where Muslims are suspected with a new law under general suspicion. Of course, you can't have our voice for that. As far as foreign financing is concerned, we have also made proposals on how we can solve this problem. We Greens are of course in favour of repressing the influence of foreign institutions on religious societies, churches and so on. We do not want a Saudi state that can also determine Turkey which positions in Austria take Muslim religious societies. That's obvious, and on the other hand, we have always resisted. The means you use here are not suitable. Ladies and gentlemen, this law is unfortunately a farce!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e18970	Mr Rädler. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e18991	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! As an integration speaker of the People's Party Can you listen, Mr. Kickl? [[Abg. Kickl: Today is about a religious law, we have heard!]] [[Abg. Kickl: Yes, that was the first mistake!]] As an integration speaker of the ÖVP, I am pleased that this law facilitates living together in our country, for all those who think it well. If I hear so many previous speakers, I must say that it would be better for them to sharpen their far-sighted vision, which they so much like to emphasize, on those imperial councillors who created the Islam Law in 1912. [[Abg. Kickl: You must have never looked at that!]] At that time we had 21 million Austrians and 20,000 members of Islam in our country. [[Abg. Strache: That was the Hanefitic rite, exclusively!]] Today we have 8.5 million inhabitants and 500,000 Islamists in our country. [[Intervocations with SPÖ and Greens.]] The more legitimate it is to think about it after 100 years and introduce a new law. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now the Greens are asking for a referral back to the Constitutional Committee to discuss it again. Our Minister set up a dialogue forum between the Federal Government and the Islamic community in Austria three years ago. We have been discussing this for three years – and now we should refer it back? I wonder why. It's obvious. If we saw the discussion in the ORF yesterday, we know which mask some are wearing. There are the man-made mask and the mask of those who promote radicalism. That was very clear yesterday. And so is the law. Why don't the Greens agree? Therefore, they do not want to agree because they are missing a topic. You simply lack a subject that you may be able to discuss for another three years after a referral back. Yes, Mrs. Korun, I have to tell you one thing: You stress again and again that you have been expelled from Turkey. They're called parts of this law. [[Abg. Korun: This is your integration policy, your labelling! This is your integration policy!]] Think about it, and stay on the ground of reality! Let's take a look at Turkey: There are also legal regulations there. [[Abg. Korun: I'm proud of it!]] Do you know – and I now ask the listeners and listeners – when a church building has been approved in Turkey, despite existing legislation, the Christian community, which includes 100,000 people there? – After 90 years in January, this is the first time! I have to tell you quite clearly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Korun: My name is not Erdoğan! Thematic miss! Call Erdoğan!]] On the issue of greens: Let us remember the images of the Black Block at various demonstrations, where your people's plates were worn with the inscription: Muslims and asylumists welcome! These are the beginnings of radicalism. This is the oil in the fire of the liberals that you pour every time and that the liberals need! [[Abg. Korun: You are a populist! Shame!]] On the issue of the failure of the liberals: You need a general suspicion. The Greens need a subject and their liberals need a general suspicion. Your populism can only lead you here to reject this law, but really not for material reasons.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e19171	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Alm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e19193	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Yes, as Mr Scherak has already said, there are many details in this law, which are critical and which would all be sufficient for rejection. But there is also a very fundamental reason to reject this law, and that is indeed the inequality of a recognized religious community based on the error that would be treated differently here. It's not like that. I would ask you to look at the relationship between state and religion, because in principle there are two ways to shape this relationship. One can act as a state religion and belief towards neutral or not neutral. From a neutral position, religion and belief are private. That is, religion and belief are like a personal feature such as hair color, like eye color, not suitable for categorising people. That is, the state cannot afford or discriminate against religion or belief. He can't even distinguish. That is the principle of laity. However, laity does not prevent believers from organizing themselves and exercising this form of organized religion publicly, in the general legal framework of course. Laizity is actually the only guarantee of freedom of religion at all. And Austria decides against this path with any other law. Austria attempts to ensure neutrality by adopting a special law for each religion. To this end, the state first and foremost makes a distinction between religious and non-religious world views, and it is assumed that there are inequalities here, which are actually treated unevenly, because worldly-religious neutrality does not exist in Austria. However, it would be consistent that at least the group of recognized religious communities would be treated equally. This can be imagined as with a GmbH law: There are companies that do all kinds of things, but they are still equal in front of the GmbH law. They are not treated unevenly because there are variations in content. These differences in content, Mr Minister, dear Sebastian Kurz, I consider them to be a semantic trick. In terms of content differences are used to address technical criteria differently. Funding, calling for law enforcement, for example, is not a difference in the content of religion. An Islamic law that was formulated in a breath with the anti-terrorist laws – Klubobmann Lopatka, in one of the speeches at one of the last plenary sessions, said that the new Islam law was the answer to IS – which should serve to domesticize a religion and at the same time isolate it from abroad, which contradicts the constitutional principle of equality. The alleged condition of inequality which results in inequality is simply not available. Yes, here would actually be the same thing to treat, with a law that is the same for all religions and world views. There is only one more elegant solution, and that would be laity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e19241	Mrs Kucharovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e19262	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to stress it once again, even if it has already been said several times: It is really shocking for me how topics here are completely, consciously mixed together. And I must say to you, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, that I am not surprised by you, but by some others, because other political groups, too, have consciously messed up issues. [[Abg. New builder: You have to go through this!]] We are talking today about Islam law and not about security policy. Security policy is not at all on the agenda today, and security policy concerns all those who act unjustly, whether with or without religious confession. I have to tell you, you clearly missed your topic today. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Today, as mentioned several times, we are concerned with rights and obligations for the Islamic community in Austria and the Islamic Alevitian community in Austria. I can no longer hear it when it is said that it is about the “Islam of Austria”. What does that mean? What is that supposed to be? I can't answer it because we're all Austria. Some who come again and again with these issues should become really aware of what they are doing in social policy, when they mix facts, completely polemize, consciously incite and divide people against each other. It is about the granting of rights, for example – today also several times – to religious care in hospitals, the federal army or in detention centres, and – even if it is quite surprising for me personally, that we decide only in 2015 – the granting of the right to intra-religious food bids in the aforementioned institutions as well as the protection of holidays and the establishment of cemeteries. Central is, also mentioned, the installation of a chair at the university. This makes it completely new that Imame can now also be trained in university in Austria. I want to lose a word on the recognition law 1874 and Islam law old. I must honestly tell you that I can already understand young Muslims when they wonder why they are being alerted to living by Austrian law. For them this is quite normal, because they were born here and they didn't know anything else. That is why I can understand this criticism. However, I would like to say that, as a result of the negotiations with ALEVI and IGGiÖ, we were able to work out four key demands that were very important, and this has happened in the parliamentary process. These include the appointment of teachers to the university only after consultation with the IGGiÖ and the ALEVI and, above all, the fact that they must also be supporters of the recognized religious society, the extension of foreign funding or also the intra-statuary matter. Finally, as a child and youth speaker, I would like to say one more thing. What always appeals to me – and we all need to get better –: The 2015 Islamic Law is primarily addressed to young Muslims. Quite frankly: My group has done so, I also know that the Minister of Art and Culture has done so, but we have all probably done it too late: to involve young Muslims in the process of lawmaking in good time. In general, we need to improve this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e19305	I call Mr Kickl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e19326	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, if all of this were so simple – this is especially true of social democracy. So this is a law that only regulates religious matters and has nothing to do with security and integration at all. This is probably also the reason why we heard the statements made by the Minister for Integration: because all of this has nothing to do with integration and apparently only regulates the internal affairs of a religious community. That's not a reasonable logic. Just as Mr Rädler of the ÖVP should take back the attempt to put the FPÖ around populism here, as it was your head of state in Lower Austria, who has risen to the sentence that mosques are artificially foreign. [[Abg. Rädler: Not at all!]] This wouldn't happen to a liberal. I'll tell you! [[Ironic hustle and bustle with representatives of the ÖVP.]] And to this day I haven't heard any excuses. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And here you pretend that what Klubobmann strache said to honor murder would be such a fool. [[Abg. Schönegger: Too late!]] Well, you have called on Germany in many of your statements – Mr. Lopatka is not here right now. In Germany we have had the following situation: [[The speaker shall keep the expression of a ‘FAZ’ article up to date]] A German Afghan kills his pregnant girlfriend in the back. “Because of his cultural and religious origin” he found himself “in a forced situation,” says the judge. The title reads: ‘Cultural discount for ‘Ehren murder’’’. These are things that there are, we have not invented liberals, and you do nothing good if you approach this whole subject naïvely. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start with the ÖVP first, because the ÖVP has always taken a new path if it wants to successfully position itself in social policy – I am abstracting from its own productions à la Homo-Ehe and adoption right for lesbians. She's doing the Merkel-Papagei now. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] After all, Merkel was the daughter of a pastor, I heard – but that was Nietzsche, the son of a pastor. This would not lead to a special close relationship with religious activities. [[Abg. Wöger: What kind of problem do you have? - Chastisement!]] But the woman Merkel turns herself up and says: ‘ Islam belongs to Germany.’ And with a certain delay come Mr Mitterlehner, Mrs Mikl-Leiter, the old Mr. Khol, the university professor without university, and repeat this sentence applied to Austria [[Abg. Wöginger: You're getting old too!]] [[==References====External links== Wheeler]] Islam belongs to Austria. We will then come to talk about this failure. But after all, You said it clearly. The SPÖ is winding a little more. In this clarity I didn't hear that. She's ovating around, but I'm holding her, she didn't claim the opposite either. The sentence that Islam does not belong to Austria, I have not heard from the SPÖs, even though Mr Cap has today tried to take on a certain differentiated position, which will certainly bring him the status of an exodus, especially in the field of Vienna's social democracy. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the FPÖ.]] In fact, you have to be aware of the situation of the SPÖ, which is the problem: Look at the May March, look at it, and you will find many red flags there. But these are not the red-white-red, but those are the other red ones, these are the Turkish red ones. These are the flags that the activists and supporters of Mr. Erdoğan are swinging on this first May. That is also the reason why the SPÖ in Vienna, in particular, opposes the political activities that are always Islamic-political activities in the election campaign of Mr. Erdoğan in Vienna. There is no resistance, the stadiums are organized! I'd break my head over what's going on in a society when someone in Ankara snaps his fingers and in Vienna the hut is full within 24 hours. I wanted to see this organizational force in the rejection of attacks from this community, where I did not experience them. There I would like them to be – that should be the SPÖ in particular to think. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They support this, and that is the problem. The SPÖ is much closer to this Erdoğan Islamism than it came out of these words today. [[President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions:]] I found an interesting document, a request to the last SPÖ party. The applicant is the “Initiative Social Austria”, it is a request to the Federal Party Conference concerning the “Social Democratic Position vis-à-vis political Islam”. This is therefore a very interesting document, because there are reasonable demands in it, reasonable demands. I can quote a few: "Whoever joins such murderous troops and thus becomes a potential murderer must immediately become his asylum status or lose the right to stay.” – Reasonable! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] ‘Austria must not be abused as a recruitment and march for these crimes.’ – Reasonable! ‘The financial, political and moral support of terrorist organisations aimed at the destruction of the State of Israel’ is ‘to reject and to pursue Islamic-anti-Semitic hatred’. And now it's coming, and there's probably the dog buried, ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy: It calls for a clear demarcation of social democracy towards supporters of the conservative-authoritarian Erdogan regime and to institutions financed by the arch-conservative regime in Saudi Arabia. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] Do you know what happened to this request? – This has not even been allowed to the SPÖ party, although the basic reasonable positions in which the SPÖ could have demonstrated impressively how seriously it is meant by the defence of radical Islamism. This is not even allowed.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e19467	Ladies and gentlemen, do you want to say a final sentence or do you want to speak after the short debates?
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e19482	Then I'll make a few more remarks because I think it's
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e19503	No, “a few remarks” are no longer going, I have to call the short debate at 3 p.m. So, after the short debate, do you continue? [[Abg. Kickl: Yes!]] Thank you. [[In the case of the FPÖ, please take a look at the box that leaves the speaker's desk. Kickl.]] I am now interrupting the negotiations on item 10 of the agenda. [[15:01:15]] Short debate on the response to the question 3229/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e19539	We arrive at the brief debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for Art and Culture, Constitution and Media with the number of orders 3229/AB. The answer to the question has already been distributed, so that there is no reading. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with a speaking time of 10 minutes for the first speaker. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. I now give the floor to Mr Dr Zinggl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e19575	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Ostermayer, we now see ourselves on the same subject for the third time, but it is the fourth question on this subject, for once the Minister of Finance has already been here. I do not know how many of these questions we are going to make. [[Abg. Brosz: A few more!]] We are really concerned that Parliament's rights are secured and safeguarded and that the greatest transparency can occur in the case of Bundestheater-Burgtheater-Schlamassel. You tell us again and again, Minister, that you ensure maximum transparency. However, before returning to the request and its failure to reply, I may refer to something else, namely the obligation of a witness to remain silent in the Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors on the same subject. You know, Minister, that this subcommittee is committed to confidentiality and confidentiality, but you still allow the management of the Bundestheater-Holding not to decompose a witness from his duty of secrecy – it is the auditor Dr. Martin Wagner. This auditor has stated in the press – clearly for all of us – that everyone should have noticed that something does not fit into the economic situation of the Burgtheater. We would have liked to ask him in committee: What should the ministry have known when? They're preventing this! They do not prevent this by not giving the managing director the instructions to release the obligation of confidentiality, and thus they do not help the transparency or the clarification of the whole case. Now we come to the questions, because there is exactly the same thing: For a year now I have been trying to keep the protocols, at least the contents of the minutes of the Supervisory Board meetings, and although you are talking about transparency and information, it is not possible for us to get it because you obviously want to hide something there! It seems essential and important to us to know when the Supervisory Board knew of what, when the ministry knew what was going on here as regards the economic events or the liquidity loss of the Bundestheater or the Burgtheater. For a year, however, I have received the same answer again and again: The right of interdisciplinary action does not provide for an answer to these questions. They have always used different arguments. I would just like to remind you very briefly that you initially took the view in the reply that I should only ask questions on very specific topics of the Supervisory Board meetings, which is entirely related to the hair. I then considered that, since I do not know what topics are being negotiated, I would have to ask for the item on the agenda. I then received the answer that ‘the transmission of a ‘detailed list of items and decisions’ would not be permitted in terms of confidentiality. – That was in April 2014, Minister, you remember. Then I asked the same question to the Federal Minister for Finance and also to the Federal Chancellor – and see here: Confidentiality was no longer given. I have received the answers to the agenda items very well, in September 2014, and then it was no longer a problem for you to pass on to the media, because then confidentiality was obviously no longer so important. You know, Minister, we now have an opinion by Öhlinger and also an opinion on the legal, legislative and scientific services of Parliament, and all of them clearly agree – and you will confirm this – that the Supervisory Board is obliged to provide information to the Minister, the Federal Chancellor and the Minister of Finance. That is because they have sent the relevant bodies to the Supervisory Board, both the Federal Minister for Art and Culture as well as the Ministry of Finance as well as the Federal Chancellor. So if these Supervisory Board members are obliged to inform you, we may, in turn, ask you what they told you if you asked. That means I get everything from information – or should get everything – that you can ask. Exceptions to that, we know, there is data protection and personality rights, but that was never questioned for us. You keep saying that you don't need to submit documents – I never required that. All I want is to get the literal text of the protocols. These are not documents, but they can get you to know them from your Supervisory Boards and then pass them on to me. Of course, I could also ask about the content, but that's almost only a difference between prose and transfiguration, I'd say, and that can't be it. It is about I want to know – I would like to know exactly – what the Supervisory Board knew and what the Ministry should have known about. It is not only the Supervisory Board, ladies and gentlemen, who is obliged to provide information, but according to the Federal Theatre Organisation Act, the commercial management is also obliged to inform you about anyway. Therefore: If the commercial management of the Supervisory Board protocols knows something – and of course it knows everything – then you are obliged to inform us about this. I have the feeling that, due to certain interviews in the media, you have a state-of-the-art behavior and say: We look at what is good for the Bundestheater-Holding, what is good for the ministry, then we can publish it – if possible via media, not in Parliament – and what we prefer to hide so that something does not come to light, which might be unpleasant. That is interesting, because we wanted the protocols for the subcommittee, and you cannot argue against them that any economic data or personal rights are being violated, because the subcommittee is, for this very reason, committed to confidentiality. So there's something going on, I think you can't get through with these arguments. Still something you always argue about, namely that you cannot provide any information here due to the data protection and the personal rights of third parties, is unfortunately not correct, you will also know. We are now asking – I do not know exactly how many – 180 questions on each agenda item and we want to know what the logged decisions or discussions of the Supervisory Board were. And here you cannot say flat-rate, for all these Supervisory Board protocols of all German theatre companies, there are legal and data protection reasons for refusing to reply. - That can't be! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You have to say in every single question: For this and that reason I cannot answer this question. It is not credible that all 180 or 190 questions – I have not noticed the number – are subject to the obligation of confidentiality. [[Abg. Brosz: 196!]] – 196, thank you. I would ask you not to prevent information, but to create transparency. We won't stop, we won't let go of this, and we won't let these deception maneuvers please us anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e19636	Mr Ostermayer spoke on a point of view. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e19658	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I must confess, I did not fully understand the discussion of the request or the desire, but that is the case. We've done the same before. Mr Zinggl, I told you at the time that, in accordance with the letter of the President-in-Office of the Council, I was 20 years old. In November 2014, the answer to the question was received. There is a joint opinion of the Federal Chancellor's Office's Legal, Regulatory and Scientific Service and Constitutional Service on the extent to which the law of interconnection goes, with all the restrictions in it. You quoted a part of it, so it says: ‘As regards the question of the content of such responses, the competent member of the Federal Government shall remain obliged, where appropriate, to comply with the constitutional obligations of the confidentiality and data protection of personal data (including business and business secrets) when answering parliamentary requests.’ [[Abg. Brosz: If necessary!]] Of course, when asked, there is always the usual procedure. I have now also asked the Constitutional Service to examine whether this clarification or interpretation of the right of interconnection is taken into account. The second is – which is likely to be the reason for the current desire – the question of the birth of DDr. Martin Wagner. Of course, I will not give any instructions to the Bundestheater-Holding or other institutions, which leads to economic damage. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Zinggl.]] The Bundestheater-Holding has therefore also obtained a legal assessment. You know, there are pending procedures with regard to Mr Hartmann, which now rest during criminal investigations, and there is a very essential sentence: The birth of DDr. Wagner could therefore have a negative impact on the success of the process because it would change the process strategy and would therefore be appropriate to cause economic damage. [[Abg. Pilz: Yes, but that is no reason not to answer parliamentary questions!]] Of course, I will not give any instructions as to which I will be warned that I am causing an economic damage. With regard to transparency, because that has always been the subject of you: I always have where it was possible – no, Dr. Pilz, I read the quote. [[Abg. Pilz: So Parliament is a process risk! Explain this to us!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e19745	Mr Pilz, you can speak afterwards, but I would ask you not to engage in a dialogue with the member of the government in this way, which is also by standing up. [[Abg. Pillow: Well if you insist on it!]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Mr Pilz only agrees if he gets up!]] – At any time, if it permits the speaking time of your group. Please, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e19788	In the sense of transparency, I always have if it was possible without economic damage and if experts have said that it is possible to publish things. About 11 months ago, I made a very comprehensive request to the Court of Auditors to carry out an examination of the Burgtheater. This examination is under way, and it concerns the entire period of time in the past. However, I will not do so in a way that can cause damage to the company, nor in the case of the question of whether I give an instruction, and I would ask for understanding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e19821	Thank you, Minister of State. I now give the floor to Mrs Hakel and draw attention to the fact that the speaking time is now up to 5 minutes for all the following speakers. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e19846	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yeah, for the fourth time on the same subject. [[Abg. Brosz: This will not have been the last time it goes on!]] Transparency and information are, I believe, two points for which the Minister has always stood and still stands, but we still adhere to data protection. [[Cheerfulness with FPÖ, Greens and NEOS]] [[Congratulation of the Abg. Loacker]] [[Abg. Stroll: We already have to drive him a little!]] If economic disadvantages can arise, we must take note of this, and I do not need to say much more. We have a subcommittee of the Court of Auditors meeting since December, which will meet again tomorrow, where the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Bundestheater-Holding Max Kothbauer will also be available as an information person tomorrow. And we can discuss this – you and we – on the various items of the agenda that are known. Yes, I would also have liked to receive the Supervisory Board protocols, but I accept this decision and the reasons why we do not get it. What DDr's duty of secrecy. Martin Wagner concerns: Yes, I would have had some questions to him – I still have – but he will not be released from the duty of silence. [[Abg. Pillow: But?]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Who?]] We had the co-workers of KPMG in the subcommittee and were able to ask them there. In principle, this is a special question to Mr Ddr. Martin Wagner. There is also a legal procedure currently under way. Well, it's not possible right now, maybe it's still going to be. [[Abg. Pilz: What question?]] [[Call:What question would you have asked him?]] I'm going to ask you the question in peace – exactly, exactly. [[Abg. Fekter: The confidentiality of the committee does not need to be broken here!]] So much to the point that Dr. Pilz said: The Committee's confidentiality! That's why we probably can't discuss it because everything goes out. [[Abg. Pilz: The questions are not confidential!]] The question would have been why he – I say that tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e19990	Mrs Fekter is speaking next time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e20022	Mr President. Mr. Minister! [[Abg. Pilz: Do you have a question?]] “The location determines the position”, is a national wisdom. As a minister, I am the argument – how am I supposed to say? – very well-known that, in the case of outsourced companies, they are to be held as Head of Division of the Board of Directors on Article 52 para. 2 B-VG in the way that, as it were, the right of interconnection ends in the case of outsourced persons. [[Abg. Brosz: Now it's starting again!]] I am now here as a Member of Parliament and of course I am interested in the greatest possible transparency. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Loacker.]] [[Abg. Brosz: Only you did that, other ministers didn't do it!]] Mr. Zinggl, with his tenacity and also colleague Meinl-Reisinger, have achieved – and this must be acknowledged – that we have achieved in the interpretation of Article 52 para. 2 B-VG now have a little more clarity or a better definition of the framework of this right of interconnection. [[Abg. Pilz: You've been out of government!]] We have now argued the Öhlinger opinion, which is very transparent-open. [[Abg. Brosz: We had that before!]] We have the opinion of the Constitutional Service, which also takes strong account of government positions, and we have restricted the legal, legislative and scientific service of Parliament, which also argues with regard to transparency, to data protection and business secrets. That is to say, the four-time question has also led us to see a little clearer now, and also to the fact that, for example, the agenda items were inside the last question, which was not the case with the first. That means that there has already been a progress here, which I very much welcome. However, I would also like to say that there are several instruments available to Members. Confidentiality in the Court of Auditors subcommittee is the reason why we get more insight there than here in the public debate. I am grateful to Mr Ostermayer for immediately turning on the Court of Auditors when, of course, the Court of Auditors has very much insight into all the files. He will then make an assessment in his report, and the Court of Auditors' assessments are generally made very objectively. And I hope that the Minister will then immediately forward the Court of Auditors report to Parliament for discussion. Therefore: In principle, the instruments are sufficient. The right to intervene is legitimate, and I particularly welcome the fact that we have come to a further development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e20118	Next item is the report by Mr Dr. Rosary. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e20139	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! For the fourth time, we are now talking about a question response – for God's sake, four times we have had this problem. Please remember – it was already reported medially in the morning hours – today the setting up of the Hypo-Research Committee is taking place. How long did it take until it finally came to a good end? I don't think that's much ridiculous four times. This project is still in childhood. I'm good things that we're going to develop this now, at the fifth, the seventh, the fourteenth, whatever. What's the core? This area of tension between government and Parliament is of course something that is of particular interest to some: Parliament and its mandates. I admit, Mrs Hakel von der SPÖ said: Well, if it's like that, you can't do anything, then I don't even care! – This is an access to matter. Mrs Fekter welcomed these small steps which were taking place, and she also meant: The Court of Auditors is largely objective! – I would be interested in the examples of which it believes that the Court of Auditors would not have been objective, because it always seems objective to me. Perhaps, I do not know, from her point of view the Court of Auditors has recently been objective with the assessment of the Hypo, the former Minister of Finance. In my opinion, this was very good, and I therefore say thank you and look forward to seeing the Court of Auditors report here, also as Parliament's assistant body. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] But we still have nothing to do with that. We could ask: Well, what is to become this – under the quotation mark – “query, answer and questioning dual”, this pingpong? Mr Zinggl will always receive information from you in the context of the question and the question debate, even in the light of opinions. It means: You have to ask a little more detailed! You have to ask exactly what the Supervisory Board's reporting obligation is! And then, with his good staff, Mr Zinggl sets out, I assume the effort to develop 196 questions – and then on this detail there is nothing else but the answer: Well, that's what I told you before that there's no such thing! Also included in your information was that you will not give any instructions to grant a release of the obligation to remain silent, even in front of the secret Court of Auditors Subcommittee. So, in itself, this was not the subject of this question, but since you have thrown this wood in here, I will be grateful for it. It is really unheard of – and in my view this is clear distrust, which is brought here to the silent Court of Auditors' subcommittee and thus also to a Parliament's body – that it is said: There's no such thing as confidentiality, we have process status points, we have process disadvantages to do when we pose this. – We are not a trombone body, but we are silently ordered. Nice. And what we want is nothing but a complete reconnaissance of political responsibility in this immense scandal, where tax money was simply thrown around. It's nothing else. [[It was in favour of the FPÖ as well as of representatives of Greens and NEOS.]] Now you hear: Yes, the economic interests! – Mr Federal Minister, what will happen tomorrow when the Supervisory Boards come to us? A lady, I think, has already apologised, does not come anyway, for whatever reason. What if they come and say: Excuse me, I'm the Supervisory Board, I have company law obligations to be silent! It's very nice, I like the building, I've seen the documentation on the Ringstraße, now I even see the budget room once from the inside, but more you won't know from me! – Excuse me, what do we have outsourced businesses with supervisory boards operating with tax money? The fact that you have found the first sacrifice in the person of the section head Franz is a story. But I am already excited about how other bodies, which have obviously removed themselves from their share-law obligation, because they have not been controlled, argue. That's what I'm asking myself: What do we have supervisory councils for? Just to make sure they get cheap theater cards or anything? – Well, not even that's enough, that's too much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e20196	The next item is the speech by Mr Brosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e20218	Mr President. Federal Minister! First of all, I would like to take a brief look at the comments made by Mrs Fekter. It was not true that all ministers felt that they had no obligation to provide information. The fact was, as a minister, you didn't provide any information. The legal basis has not changed. Legal and legislative service – if you read this, you will find it – says: It has always been the case that there has been an obligation to provide information. It can be noted that your interpretation of the Constitution was inadequate, inadmissible and you as a minister simply did not deliver things that you had to deliver – which other ministers have already done. Second comment, on Mrs Hakel's speech: We have a new Rules of Procedure for the Investigation Committee – I am now looking at where Mr Hakel is, I do not see her right now. [[Abg. crochet makes itself felt by winking.]] - Ah, there, excuse me! . In this Rules of Procedure, we have defined exactly what to do if there is a problem with the judicial system, in the sense that information from a parliamentary committee of inquiry may influence procedures and may need to be taken into account. We have a very precise form of how to act. [[Abg. Hakel: A subcommittee is not an investigative committee!]] - It doesn't matter. It will probably not be possible to say that what has been introduced as a rule by a committee of inquiry is, in principle, unthinkable in a subcommittee. That's completely absurd. In the subcommittee confidentiality is even greater, there is no media publication there. There is media publicity at the Investigation Committee. There can be any journalist sitting inside, can literally report what happened. For this body, handling is easier, there is more information than with a subcommittee. That can't be serious. We need to explain exactly where the risk is, and we will take this into account. Now I come to the answers to the questions: Mr Federal Minister, you have read a word that was very interesting, namely, “at least” – you have read it relatively quickly, but it has quite a big meaning –: Where appropriate, consideration shall be given to data protection interests. – If necessary! That means quite clearly from my point of view, you can argue, you don't give this information, and why you don't give it. That would be legitimate. Let us look at what Mr Zinggl asked. He's got the logs in your reply. I'm just taking out two now. The only thing you can do about the protocol of 5. In June 2014, a report was published – one-off – that there was an interim report from the Management Board on the budget negotiations. So obviously everything else that took place at this Supervisory Board meeting was confidential, dangerous, understated data protection, it was not allowed to say. The only thing Parliament can learn is that there has been an interim report on the management of the board. Neither has there been evidence of what has been done there, nor has there been evidence that there may have been a need for supervision. This is the meaning of the right of interconnection, as the opinion has also stated. This is not a formal question of when the Supervisory Board meetings took place. The idea behind this is parliamentary control. And the core of parliamentary control is not to know what the Burgtheater did in the first place there, but the core is to control the supervisory duty, even where the Minister had played a role in the ministry. Of course, with this form of response, you do not have exactly this control, because from what is legible – I have read it relatively carefully – you could ask each of the points exactly what the supervisory duty is. You'll refuse that again. What you're doing is trying not to tell things. You can hold that. I think this is a shame because it expressly contradicts what has been said by the opinion. I can only announce right now: We will address this in the next presidential session and we will request that the legal and legislative service examine whether it is to be carried out in accordance with the opinion as to how this response has been made. It cannot be said that Parliament only takes note of the way in which it is answered if there is apparently a legal basis that is completely different. In this context, we could only wish that what is happening in Germany, namely an organ dispute, is something we now have at the committee of inquiry. There no longer the majority decides what is right and what is not. In cases of dispute, the Constitutional Court may decide. That is exactly what we need on the question of parliamentary control. If this question were to be discussed in Germany, a judicial decision would certainly come, and this would have to be followed. What we have is totally unsatisfying. We have an interconnection right, and in the end the Minister decides what he is making known and what he does not. So was the old situation: We had a committee of inquiry at the time, and blackened files came to be blackened. That's what we've changed. There's no longer any. I wonder why the Committee of Inquiry is going far beyond the right of inquiry. What you have done is simply not transparency, but – I say it carefully – transparency, not to say: There's something to hide. It seems that some information is delicate, these are not delivered, and you have been doing this for months. I guess we haven't seen each other the last time. In the presidential we will definitely see ourselves again, and I would be very surprised if Mr Zinggl did not find many approaches to further question.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e20265	Last speaker: Mrs Mag. Meinl-Risinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e20287	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, I agree with the opinion of my previous speakers: Four times is apparently not enough, “And daily the Murmeltier greets”, I also welcome this debate, because I consider the following questions that we also address with regard to a possible future freedom of information law, to a possible future – at last! – To abolish the silence of office in the Constitution, but especially with regard to the Enlightenment of this Burgtheater scandal, it is crucial: How is this Parliament dealt with, how is this Parliament's control rights dealt with, and how does the Ministry, in its attitude and in its way of working with Parliament, maintain openness and transparency? Mrs Hakel, I have found it very courageous that you have said that the Federal Minister for Transparency and Enlightenment has up to that time acted exemplaryly. I have not actually seen this from my perception – of course also here: the location determines the point of view – in fact. I would like to remind you very briefly of the following: It's about a year ago, I've been standing here and I've made a urgent request to the Burgtheater. A year ago, on the basis of publicly accessible documents such as annual accounts et cetera, I demonstrated that there has been a highly precarious liquidity and wealth situation in the Burgtheater for for a long time, and this should have been noticeable to everyone. By the way, this sentence – which should have been obvious to everyone – is a quote of that DDr. Wagner, who will not be released from his duty of confidentiality for the confidential subcommittee. I would like to say here that the other colleagues of the DDr. Wagner at KPMG was very likely discharged from their duty of secrecy. Now I'm wondering, Is the reason why he is not released into the person of the DDr. Wagner and perhaps in this interview he gave to the “Press ”? Minister! I understand that there is a significant process risk for the Republic of Austria. You could read it here and there, and he's talking about some kind of legal expert: Well, that's going to be difficult, this procedure by Matthias Hartmann will run out of a comparison! But that you have a worse negotiating situation in a comparison or possible compensation for damages than the control rights of Parliament in a – and I repeat this here again – confidential subcommittee, I think this is actually outrageous. The attitude and operation of the ministry towards Parliament in this Burgtheater-Causa was not transparent and not open. In the case of urgent questions, in written questions, in debates, we have carried out information to the light of the day, and whenever a little more has been labored out here, something has happened. Finally, the restructuring of the sections in the Federal Chancellery was announced, which de facto is nothing but a depowering of section head Franz, who has truly not boasted of fame throughout history. The subcommittee will probably also bring some further information to light here. No, so I don't see excessive support here. We will continue to work, we will consult the other supervisory councils, and much will come to light, I promise. Finally, I would like to extend my warm welcome to the students of the public school and the New Middle School at Karlsplatz. If you're still here: Welcome to Parliament! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e20341	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[15:36:22]] Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e20362	We shall now proceed to a further brief debate. This concerns the request made by Mrs Mag. Meinl-Reisinger, the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on the motion for a resolution 840/A by Mr Mag. Beate Meinl-Reisinger and colleagues concerning a Federal Constitutional Act with which the Federal Constitutional Act, BGBl. No. 1/1930, amended, a period of until 24. ==References== After the end of this debate, the vote will take place on the proposed deadline. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with the first speaker having a speaking time of 10 minutes for reasons of reasons. Comments from members of the Federal Government should not exceed 10 minutes. First speaker: Mrs Mag. Meinl-Risinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e20400	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! I'm talking again, but this time on a completely different subject. I think it's no longer a secret that Vienna's urban policy is a concern, a matter of heart. Not only in the past few weeks, but actually in recent years, we have experienced – sometimes, sometimes less – a discussion on a change in the right to vote in Vienna, unfortunately, to date depressing and without results. One of the few results of this agreement between SPÖ Vienna and Grünen in Vienna is the abolition of non-official municipal councils in Vienna. This is a good deal of agreement, even if, in addition to the agreement on those elements of the right to vote, which have to be amended anyway, because they are unconstitutional, is, of course, a very, very thin outcome of these years of negotiations, but as we have said, NEOS welcomes this. We believe that these non-official city councils are a bizarre unicum of Vienna's urban policy. They're not coalition government, or they're pro-prinz government. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Yes, they are!]] This construction is a Swiss being, which ensures a certain amount of access to information, but we do not think it is modern at all. I would remind you that the federal state for the Federal Republic is now gradually abolishing pro-poor governments, and the same should apply to this Swiss construction. Finally, it's a post, a very well paid post. Unfortunately, politics is very often about posts, prestige and care, and that is why it should not be the case at all. The sum of the contributions of the four non-official city councils in Vienna amounts to €3 million over a legislative period. This is, of course, a drop on the hot stone when it comes to the renovation of the Vienna budget, but you can start somewhere. Why are we discussing this today, and why do I want to set this deadline? . We must make an adjustment to the Federal Constitutional Act, because according to the Federal Constitutional Act, all parties, all political groups are represented in each municipal council. Now the Austrian Federal Constitutional Act, due to the unique special position of the federal state and the city of Vienna, provides for some special arrangements, but unfortunately not in this case. However, it would be easy to change this provision, and then the way would be free for a decision-making and political agreement in Vienna – hopefully taking place. First, however, we need to amend the Federal Constitutional Act here. That is why I tabled this request here in the National Council at the beginning of December last year. I am very pleased that Mr Musiol of the Greens then followed up a year and a half later with an almost identical request. It is not really difficult, as has been said, to create this technically. And I am glad that there is this agreement between the Greens in Vienna and the SPÖ Vienna. I believe that Mr Wittmann, too, has signaled approval. [[Abg. Brosz: (directional towards ÖVP) There you have to ask!]] – Yes, but I think we can at least count on the consent of the Greens and the SPÖs in this matter. I therefore believe that this is an important step, because I believe that it is very important from the symbolism that any saving or reform measures or steps should begin with politics itself. That would be very important. It would have been better, and I often pointed out that – as an extra-parliamentary opposition, it is not easy, but in blogs and press releases and via social media I have done so repeatedly – if we could have seen a reform of the electoral right in Vienna as a whole. To remember: It is a very strong majority voting right. The right to vote is the core of every democracy and therefore NEOS is a very special matter of heart. And it is actually not to be seen that the mandate is about 20 percent more expensive for a green representative than for a SPÖ representative – 6 800 votes versus 8 200 votes. This was rightly criticized over and over again. In 2010, there was also this notarial act in which the then opposition parties, including the Greens, committed themselves to implementing a electoral reform. Unfortunately, this has not happened. In 2011, the National Council amended the constitutional provisions in the National Council electoral order. The Wiener Gemeinschaftsordnung must also be changed. That means it's been clear for four years, you could've done that for four years. Nothing happened at all. Instead of at least doing these small repairs, which one has to make anyway, it was used as a fee for a political discussion, which is now finally coming to the farce. I would like to take this opportunity to appeal to the Greens in Vienna: You were certainly the democratic conscience of the city. But I do not want you to abandon this democratic conscience on the wardrobe to power and forget what you have committed yourselves to. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Have they already delivered!]] As an extra-parliamentary opposition, we will continue to put pressure on this House and will again and again stress that it is a matter of actually asserting a fair right of vote in Vienna. We have also written a corresponding request and made it available to the Greens in Vienna. Of course, it would be particularly nice if the SPÖ were to give up its attitude here as well. The state Secretary's statement that the right to vote has always been voted on by voters, I have found it very unfortunate for a democracy in which politicians have the responsibility to ensure the development of democracy and the communication of the basic democratic values. Very sad! However, I would like to return to the request once again: It's about the contents, it's not about posts. It shouldn't be about posts either. At the next Landtagssession in Vienna, it would be time to clear the way for the abolition of non-official city councils. But here in the National Council we need to amend the Federal Constitutional Act, and I ask for support for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e20470	Next come Mr. Klubobmann Mag. Arbitrators to speak. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e20491	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is only for the memory, also for the NEOS Group: This is Parliament. That is why I find it quite interesting that: It has been referred to as ‘except Parliamentary opposition’ from Parliament’s speakers’. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: In Vienna!]] This is a rather self-evident view of the institutions of this Republic. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: In Vienna! In Vienna, I said!]] You didn't say that. [[Abg. Strolz: In Vienna, Mr. Schieder!]] You didn't say that! No, you didn't say you could read that. [[Abg. Stroll: But you can also think!]] It's often not that easy to think with you. The fact is: The Vienna election seems to precipitate its shadows. And in the context of NEOS here, to initiate a short debate on a subject where one then immediately presupposes, we are not dealing with posts – no, no, you are not at all about the Vienna election and not about posts in the Vienna city parliament, but you are concerned about the matter, extra-parliamentary here presented by the speaker's board! It's quite unbelievable to pull this thing off here. But we may still be able to say something about this in terms of content. The legal basis lies in Article 117 of the Federal Constitutional Act, which states: “In the municipal council” – which applies to all Austrian municipalities – “represented electoral parties are entitled to representation in the municipal council according to their strength.” And the Federal Constitutional Officer has decided that the country of Vienna is first and foremost the municipality of Vienna, because even the agents of the municipality weigh in their number – you may learn that if you do not even have a post, but you have obtained a post in the Vienna municipal council – because the vast number of decisions in the municipal council falls and the lower number in the Vienna Landtag and thus the activity of the municipal council is also the more intensive. If you're really about posts, maybe you're not gonna learn about it because you may not be moving in there at all. But that's the starting point. The second is: There was indeed the Usus between SPÖ and ÖVP in Vienna's municipal council until 1973, that the ÖVP – although not the strongest party – has also set senior city councils. This is then broken in 1973 because the ÖVP has taken the “wise” decision not to be for the Danube Island in Vienna, a decision that has proved to be more wrong with any flood. This led to the introduction of non-official city councils in Vienna. [[Abg. Steinhauser: It has not become much better ÖVP!]] The people’s mouth calls them “City councils without work, ” because they are, in the end, too. But now you have to say: Depending on which party is currently in opposition – once the Greens, once the FPÖ, once the ÖVP – one is more or less in favour of the existence of these non-official city councils. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: always in opposition!]] On the other hand, if you cannot occupy these positions – that is the case with the smaller parties in Vienna – then you say: Well, we can get rid of them! In my opinion, this is not a serious debate on this issue. However, I say quite honestly to you that I am first of all in favour of discussing this issue throughout Austria, but I am also in favour of the abolition of this uncertainty in Vienna, because I do not believe that this will be very helpful to control, nor that it is necessary to have these posts. That is to say, I am not so much against the content now, but I think it is correct. It is interesting that the non-official city council in Vienna actually has fewer tasks and obligations than a municipal council member in the Vienna city parliament. One can only see that one should discuss it. However, I would be in favour of Vienna's Landtag discussing this issue once and that we would then discuss the decision, which the majority of the Wiener Landtag meets internally in the Wiener Landtag, and see that we come to a rule uniformly. That is why I do not think it is right to decide on a deadline now. These election-gags, that you try almost mercilessly to occupy Vienna themes here, save yourself! We can see from the Vienna Parliament to the town hall, but we should do our best to separate policy areas. That's true for you, too.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e20610	Next, Mr Magistrate. Gerstl speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e20631	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Meinl-Reisinger, this issue can be discussed very objectively. And then you should take in all the areas that concern it. On the one hand, we have an arrangement for all communities in Austria – say: In 2 102 municipalities in Austria, we participate all parties according to the proportional electoral system in the municipality board. I'm sorry, but Second situation: There is a community of these 2 102, which has said we are doing this a little different from all other communities, with us only a few people are allowed to run real business, and the others should watch. – This is once the decision made by the city of Vienna. And now the city of Vienna may go here and say that we might like to change it anyway, but this must be done by Parliament here. That's why I very much ask that we keep this from happening. Either we want to change this system – and I can agree with Mr Schieder’s opinion – in all communities, in 2 102 municipalities, as we have already done in many national governments. [[Abg. Meinl-Reisinger: That's not true, Vienna always had a special role! There are enough exceptions!]] It's a possibility. Then we are talking about the abolition of the proportional system for all municipalities in Austria. In this regard, our federal constitution states that the municipal government and the municipal government have the power to do so, representing the interests of the municipalities and the cities. Then let us get together with them and ask what their reasons are, why they want to have it, or whether they can join in with another opinion. I'd like that to happen once. [[Abg. Meinl-Reisinger: to sit together with the municipal government and the municipal government?! – There are a dozen exceptions in the B-VG! - Oh, my God!]] - I wouldn't find that fair. If, then, I would find it fair that we adhere to what we have committed ourselves to talking about it with these representative bodies. The second possibility is that Vienna will change its situation in such a way that all parties will be involved in the tasks as in all other 2 101 municipalities and there will be no more non-executive city councils: They're just gonna take it off. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Bullshit!]] [[Abg. Brosz: nonsense!]] They could do that on their own, we do not need to discuss this here, they can discuss it in the Vienna Landtag. Now there's a third possibility, you might need to talk seriously about: [[Abg. Meinl-Reisinger: The special role of Vienna is to be taken seriously!]] Why is the state of Vienna organized as a municipality and not as a country? [[Abg. Steinhauser: Wrong, Vienna is organized as both!]] I would also ask this question, then perhaps we could come to a point too. [[Abg. Arbitrators: 90 percent of the tasks are municipal tasks!]] If we organize it as a country, we are very, very quickly away from the whole question of proportion, because then the federal constitution no longer binds us: We make it a state of Vienna, just like all other federal states. [[Abg. Steinhauser: Vienna is the state and also the municipality!]] That may well be good. But perhaps – consider this once, Mrs. Meinl- Reisinger! – the mayor of Vienna has a special interest in being organised mainly as mayor and not as head of state. My interest would rather be that the power in the country of Vienna is as divided as in any other federal country. [[Abg. Schieder: But Vienna is also the city!]] You know that a mayor has x-fold more violence than a state captain. That is why I believe that this question should also be involved when it comes to the direction in which they want to go. [[Abg. Krainer: It remains both!]] [[Abg. Stroll: Now we don't make a private body out of it, but we decide!]] That is why I would say that simply meet a solution by putting together and saying: Okay, where do we want to go? There are three possibilities – and they decide between the three possibilities.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e20814	Next, Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e20835	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Meinl-Reisinger, something of a principle, which is not quite clear to me: They stand here and declare that these non-executive city councils are simply supply posts and should be abolished. – These are control posts of the opposition! As an opposition politician, do you really demand that the opposition has even less control options in the city of Vienna?- Oh, my God! – That is not quite clear to me, honestly. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Well, we can do that! Then we strengthen control rights!]] But in principle once – it has already been said a lot –: You know, the city of Vienna could immediately abolish the non-official city councils and give them all an office. This is an unicum, that's Lex Wien! According to § 36 of the Constitution of the city, it is so that out of the circles of all councils there are almost those who get a place of business, and those who do not receive one. But you can easily change that. Why is it that in a pro-priority government all the councils set by the opposition parties do not get a place? [[Abg. Miel-Risinger: Do you want a real pro-prinz government? That's better for you, a real pro-prinz government? Is this the attitude of the FPÖ?]] There's nowhere else! And, of course, you're right to some degree, that's not understandable. It is not comprehensible in the sense of the opposition, because this will cut their control rights, and nothing else. It's neither about posts nor anything else. Now you say you are extraparliamentary in Vienna, but: For example, it is also in the hands of the mayor, or the strongest group, to determine how many city councils he would like at all: between 9 and 15 he can choose. We currently have 14 and are already very, very high with this number. You could also save by even saying that we only order nine city councils in Vienna – it doesn't need 14! – and they are just distributed by d’Hondt. So these are quite normal legislations. And I do not want to, especially in Vienna, where we have for decades had an almost alone red all-power, especially in this city, also to limit the control rights of the opposition. [[Abg. Meinl-Reisinger: In any other state government where there is no pro-prising government, it is common practice!]] That gives the government party even more power! That is the completely wrong way! Especially in Vienna, this belongs, especially in Vienna, where there is so much corruption! So I can't understand that, Mrs. Colleague. That's very populist what you're doing here. Of course, it sounds kind and pretty nice when you say: There are four councils who have nothing to do, we'll get rid of them! Why don't they do anything? – We should ask this question. Let's get rid of this unikum at all! [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: But this is a pro-prising government! If this is the recipe of the FPÖ, wonderful! Then say that! Tell me you want a pro-prinz government!]] You can be sure that we will address this issue. It is still a little time in the weeks and months to vote, and of course there will still be enough meetings in Vienna's Landtag in the direction of electoral law, one of which will deal with exactly that. We don't want there to be non-official city councils, either, but we want them all to get something to do, that each individual councillor gets a job. [[Abg. Meil-Risinger: So do you want a pro-prinz government?]] In a pro-principal government, one cannot always choose it, so simply and simply the voters decide who gets what mandate and who appoints a city councillor. This question cannot be resolved here in the National Council. – I think it’s the wrong way to say, as an opposition: Let us weaken the opposition in Vienna even further! On the contrary: If we value the opposition, we will strengthen the opposition! If you sit in the country day or in the council, you will already see what you have if you give up more: They then have no more access and no more access at all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] It is already very, very difficult for non-official city councils – they are probably in a city government, but the flow of information is very low. Therefore, our way would be: Let's value the non-official city councils! Let us take it seriously, please, with a pro-poor government, and let us give everyone what they deserve, which works perfectly normally in eight other federal states! This Lex Wien is, of course, unfair, and that is why it is a subject – but it is to be dealt with in Vienna and not here in the National Council.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e20943	Next, Mr Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e20965	Ladies and gentlemen! The situation in Vienna is not the same as in the other eight federal states, nor is it correct that in the other eight federal states the opposition is in charge of the government offices. The trend is moving in a completely different direction. Salzburg: Protocol to the Agreement between the European Economic Opposition is not in government. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Then we'll get rid of him!]] Steermark: Proporz abolished; the opposition will not be in the government in the future. Vorarlberg: Protocol to the Agreement between the European Economic Opposition is not in government. Burgenland – new, after the elections –: Proporz abolished; the opposition is not in the government. In Carinthia, it is in the government agreement. The majority of the federal states have long passed this model – for good reasons: because it makes sense to separate government and opposition work. Vienna now has a special role to play, and this must be worked out in constitutional terms, because Vienna, colleague Gerstl, is already a federal state, but at the same time is a municipality. They were councillors and councillors, and once you were councillors, and next time you were councillors. In this respect, it is not necessary to say that Vienna should become a country, but Vienna is a country. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gerstl.]] Only Vienna has a constitutional dual role. That is why we have the problem that, as long as the municipalities require pro-porz governments, this has an impact on the country of Vienna. Therefore, a Lex Wien needs to be, because Vienna has a special constitutional role: Vienna is the only country that is also a municipality, and the only municipality that is also a country. Therefore, a Lex Wien, which says nothing else – and that would be the wish – than that one should be constitutional – and for that we are responsible – Vienna would be able to decide: We want a concentration government or we want a majority government. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: This must be decided by Vienna!]] This possibility does not have Vienna at present, and therefore the absurd situation arises that one is forced to concentrate governments, but actually wants majority governments for 40 years. Therefore, the absurd construction is that there are four people who are non-official city councillors who earn €120 000 a year to go in ten sessions. I do not propose that any of these persons – even the Greens have adopted this function as long as they were in opposition, and it is clear that one assumes this role, but that this is not a successful construction, I think we all agree in that. That is why this is a change, and it is therefore necessary to allow Vienna the constitutional margin to change that. In one point, I would like to ask you: It is important to ensure that the rights of opposition, which are now maintained by sitting in the state government and in the city government, namely the access to files, are preserved. That is to say, the second part of this package must be that the opposition is given control-based insight into these files, into which now non-official city councils have insight. If this succeeds, the control rights will be strengthened. But there's a division of roles: there's opposition, there's government. And we save four city councillors who get €120 000 for ten sessions. This can be achieved: on the one hand, by expanding control rights in Vienna – and on the other hand, we are willing to do so – and on the other hand, by adopting a request from the Greens or one of the NEOS, which is quite similar, so that Vienna can play the role in choosing between two ways: Do we want a concentration government or do we want a majority government? For us, it is relatively clear what we want: We believe that a majority government with a separation of government and opposition is the better model of democracy. And for that to happen, opposition rights must be extended. That's so simple! [[Congratulation with greens and NEOS.]] All other explanations leave only a single impression: You want to keep this system, where everyone can take a bite and you can also get a few jobs to do it. That is why it is obvious that there is a particular debate that the ÖVP is dealing with. But this does not mean that the citizens do not understand, nor does it make sense! It makes sense for the majority to bear responsibility and actively control the minority. And for this to happen, it is necessary to amend the Federal Constitutional Act proposed by NEOS and Greens. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e21041	The next item is Mr Klubobmann Dr. Strolz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e21063	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated citizens on the screens and on the gallery! We are discussing a change in constitutional law here. We NEOS want the non-profit city council to be abolished in Vienna. Why? And what is it like at the moment? There are four non-official city councils that have no jurisdiction, but are abundantly equipped with infrastructure, with payment. But I don't think that's understood! It is not understood by anyone who is not directly affected by this advantage that one should continue to maintain it. If we want to change this, Klubobmann Andreas Schieder, then we have to change this here, because there needs to be a change in the constitutional rank, and there we are responsible. That's why I'm asking you not to throw any nebula grenades. We are in charge of this and we have to put this debate to the vote. Of course, it is already in the picture that the SPÖ cannot start much with this change, with Mr Wittmann, who is not here, at least doing friendly nostrils here. So there are some who also deal with the matter with expertise. But it fits into the image of the SPÖ, because it is not the only senseless logic of supply in Vienna that is applied. I also claim that this office will be structurally used to feed the opposition. That too we reject! That is not what we want when we get into this function. We believe that this should be abolished. It is as pointless as other regulations, for example, that we have in Vienna a bureau for the municipal council and for the country day. That too is to be abolished. That's the same thing. It is as pointless as the fact that a national school council president understands himself as a politician in Vienna. I think that's a shame. This is an administrative post – one that we should also abolish. But someone else says: I am politicians!, is incomprehensible; for: On what basis is it chosen? That she's laughing at every poster? – Where are we going? I think that's right next door. That's why I mean: We need to get away from these care posts. That's gone! I do not understand that the blues are talking about control and cetera very well, just because they have been particularly well equipped in these care posts. However, they should have the openness to say goodbye. But obviously they are subject to a habital effect, and of this they cannot solve. I think that this is too little for a party that here always abolishs proporz and abolishes care posts. But if she herself benefits from it, then she is – hurra! – completely. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] The same knitting pattern can be found with the conservatives, with the blacks. Wolfgang Gerstl, you're holding a private body here about different options, but you already know: Either you do it or you don't! There's nothing good but you do it – but it's not done if you dress it in some constitutional private body and argue that you need a few more years. We are men and women of action, we want to decide. I think that all the facts are on the table to make this decision. And we should meet her now. Of course you have to include Vienna, that's not a question. A thank you to the Greens that they have the openness here – it can catch the Greens next time – to say goodbye to this position if it would result in themselves having to dress for such a position as opposition. I'm glad. Summary: It is a political culture that takes responsibility. Again at the address of the FPÖ: If you speak here of a concentration government, a pro-prior government, then I do not understand at all. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: This is a fact!]] Yes, but that's your argument! Let's see that we're in clear conditions: Clear bill – good friends! That also means: Let's see that we get majority governments! In all federal states, concentration governments/proportional governments are abolished. No one would understand that in other federal states there are state councils without a portfolio, without responsibility, but for that by means of a service car. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: We don't have a service car!]] So why should this be the case in Vienna? And that's why: Get out of it! All the facts are on the table, we should decide now! I'm advocating for approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e21128	Last speaker: Mr. Dr. Vetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e21149	God, Mr President! High house! What I take away from today's day is: Vienna is different! In the morning we heard that the retirement age in Vienna is much lower than in the rest of Austria. Now we hear it's in Vienna has different regulations regarding the city councils. And there is also a different weighted voting right in Vienna. The state turns out to tell the individual citizen regularly in laws how to behave, how to deal with it in the same way as it should be better. And when it comes to the state itself, there are already special rules in the division of power – for example, in the councils of the city or in the right to vote. I have already wondered in Greece that the strongest group will automatically receive 50 more mandates. In Austria, there is obviously something sublimer or particularly sublime, where – if I may take over the number mentioned by NEOS – there is a 20 percent price gap for the mandate in the Vienna municipal council. All of this is against the legitimacy of politics and state. If we want to make laws here that the citizens take seriously, we have to start with ourselves. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] That is why I appeal to everyone, for example, in the distribution of power, to take seriously the principle of ‘one man, one vote’ or, let us say, ‘one man/one woman, one vote’. If we get tricked here, no citizen will take the laws as seriously as we would like. In order for us as a state, as politics, to have the appropriate legitimacy and to be able to fulfil the legitimacy function, we should abolish, as I appeal to you all, special arrangements, discrimination against the division of power. And here we have to start at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e21197	No one is reporting on this. I will close this debate. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the honourable Member. Meinl-Reisinger and colleague, the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on the motion for a resolution 840/A by Mr Mag. Meinl-Reisinger and colleagues concerning a Federal Constitutional Act with which the Federal Constitutional Act, BGBl.Nr. 1/1930, amended, a period of until 24. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority. This request is therefore rejected. [[16:09:26]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e21240	I will resume the negotiations on item 10 of the agenda. Mr Kickl was speaking, to whom I once again gave the floor after I had to interrupt him. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e21264	Mr President. I take up the speech where I left off, namely in the role of the ÖVP in connection with the statements by the German Chancellor Merkel. It is about the new dogma of faith of the ÖVP that Islam belongs to Austria. [[Abg. Lopatka: Do you even know what a dogma is?]] In this context, I would like to ask one or another question to the representatives of the EIA, but of course also to the Minister responsible. What does it mean that something belongs to one thing? What does that mean? It would be interesting once to go a little closer to this matter. - I want to help you. The fact or the statement that something belongs to something means that this thing would not be complete without this something simple and striking that this thing would be missing without this something completely, completely essential. So that you can understand from the ÖVP as well: For example, a thing without property is not a thing, Mr. Lopatka! A thing without a property is not a thing, and a family, for example, without a female mother and a male father and without children, is not a family – even if you have already agreed to it in the meantime. But that is a very, very essential point. And against this background, the sentence “ Islam belongs to Austria” must be reviewed. I hope that you did not mean that: if Islam did not exist in Austria, Austria would lack something substance; for that means this sentence, and therefore it will never and never find our agreement! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is why I can only agree with the philosopher Rudolf Burger, who has taken the sentence of Mrs Merkel, whom you copy, and has said, that is the stupidest sentence he has ever heard from Mrs Merkel. He's perfectly right, because what you might want to express is something completely different, and I can sign it. It must be: Muslims belong to Austria as citizens! This is something completely different than saying that Islam belongs to Austria. You should think a little bit about these things, because you're an educated man. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What I said now is: Muslims belong to Austria as a citizen!, is an empirical finding, which is more or less the result of your immigration policy, which is the result of a relevant birth policy. But at any rate, it means that concrete actions are to be taken, and these are intended to lead to a separation of state and church and to the protection of freedom, democracy and human rights. And if I take this sentence, it also means that under the rule a clear definition of state law against religious practices and religious regulations is expressed. But you can only achieve this with this sentence, and not with the one you stressed. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The law you want to get on the way today does not guarantee that. Now we can go a little deeper and put another question in the back, which I also address to the SPÖ If Islam belongs to Austria, then which Islam belongs to Austria? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schönegger]] In the years of preparation for this law, it should have been said to you that there is no Islam. They have been negotiating for two years, and to this day this IGGiÖ is not able to put its own beliefs on the table; Mr. Stefan did this. They decide a law for something that is not even legitimised in a form, but which would be the prerequisite for deciding this law. - That's what brings you together! So which Islam do you mean? Do you really mean the faith, the Islamic faith IGGiÖ? So this is Islam in Austria now! That's interesting. This is the association that represents a prom of about 600,000 Muslims in Austria. So this is Islam in Austria now. I would like to tell you one thing about this IGGiÖ: This association must be accused of representing, in truth, the politically organized Islamists and their organizations in Austria. This is the truth about the IGGiÖ! For in this shura council, which has so often been the talk, they all sit inside: Atib, Millî Görüş and the Muslim Brothers. This has nothing to do with regulating a religious community in its internal organization, but what you are getting on the way here is to introduce Islamism in Austria. With this law you deal with the interests of Saudi Arabia and Turkey, which make an expansive policy here, but you certainly do not deal with the interests of Muslims in Austria – and I will write this to you again in the main book.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e21351	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Steinacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e21372	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Appreciate fellow citizens! The clear message is that it is no contradiction to be a believing Muslim and at the same time self-confident Austrian. I liked this sentence, which our Foreign Minister Sebastian Kurz said, very, very well, because he said quite clearly: That's no contradiction! – as well as others, exercise their religion as self-confident Austrians. Some 500 000 Muslims live in Austria. For them there is now a new Islam law, a newly codified one, and there is a modern legal basis. In the direction of FPÖ, I would like to say: If the party observer of FPÖ has said that Islam is not part of Austrian history, is it already a question of what one considers to be history: only things that are 100 years ago, or things that are already past like now, at the moment? And my words about it are already history. [[Abg. Neubauer: You didn't listen to what Mr Kickl said! I know that is often difficult for you!]] Therefore, one can of course take a view of five, ten, 20 or 30 years in the historical assessment of Islam in Austria. We are consciously clear: Islam is respected in Austria and therefore well anchored by law. Of course, this legal anchorage also involves comprehensive acceptance and respect for the Austrian legal system. And one thing is clear: No religion in Austria is over state law. It is the obligation and commission of all teachers in the faith in Austria, but also of the parents in the families to convey this decisively. On the subject of general suspicion, I would like to say briefly – and I very much regret that the Greens cannot go along: The religious societies, namely the IGGiÖ and also the Alevitian community, welcomed and contributed to this bill. They themselves have never said that they see themselves under suspicion by the representations of this law. And that would be enough reason to take part in this law, which you also feel is very good in many fundamental areas. We will have an Islamic-theological chair at the University of Vienna in the future, starting in 2016 – this is very important! And one also regulates this law in § 6: The official language of this teaching is German. The Imame will be trained and taught in German in the future. I would like to say to colleagues Stefan and Walser, who have talked about teaching in schools: The Austrian School Education Act provides for religious instruction to take place in German, and there we can also listen and see what is taught. On the topic of club solutions, let me just say: There is the transitional period, which is now up to 1 because of Mr Pendl's amendment. March next year is extended. At that time, the recognized religious communities have the opportunity to carry out their duties, to incorporate the associations accordingly, and then our association authorities are called upon to review and, if necessary, resolve the associations that are still existing. I rely on the Austrian administration, which is always very, very careful and proper in the area of association authority. And we will all see that this law will then be executed in 2016. Ladies and gentlemen, with this Islam law, we are creating the legal basis for an Islam of 21st century. ==References====External links== In my opinion, it is a very balanced proposal which ensures the religious rights of Muslims in Austria and at the same time corrects past developments. We thus create a law up to the level of time and legal certainty for Islamic faiths. Furthermore, our law for the European states also has a model character. That is why I ask you to give your consent to this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e21417	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr Zinggl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e21438	Mr President. Minister! First of all, to the honourable Member. Wheeler: It is already strange that you are making a press release at 15.25 a.m., according to which we here in Parliament would have passed the Islam Law. That's a bit strange, because we're just discussing it. [[Abg. Rädler: Wide view is required!]] I know you're ahead of time, but sometimes things happen that you can't foresee. [[Abg. Steinhauser: He probably doesn't know he made a press release!]] I don't think this has been very well done by you. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In committee, this has already sounded like we have a police security law. This has come from both the SPÖ and the ÖVP. A small residuum of this has also been given by Mr Lopatka when he meant that it is there to avoid and prevent fears. – A religious law is not there, and this law is not suitable for all things, which makes it at best foreordainable. I would like to explain this to you on the basis of this example with the ban on foreign financing. We do not want foreign funding either, but we are not as naïve and do not agree with such superficial, debilitating practices that in Ho-ruck movements act as if they could be prevented. I have already said it in committee, Minister: We do not believe that 500,000 Muslims can give up on their houses of God, on their mosques and on their imams. The question arises who will pay it. You just have to ask yourself that. You know very well that this is a financing problem. The Austrian citizens do not pay, and the population of Muslims does not belong to the particularly well-off. That means, of course, being financed by foreign countries. We know that. What we are doing now is a cover-up policy, because foreign institutions are told in the explanations how they should do it so that they can no longer get on with it. And that is certainly not our way of solving this problem. This is also not to be reconciled in connection with equality before the law, insofar as we know exactly that there are other religious communities that are financed from abroad. Mr. Kurz, the Church of Jesus Christ the Saints of the Last Days, the Mormons, are of course financed from Utah. Especially the preachers are thus financed and come to us. But these are the United States, and of course we don't touch a finger; that's quite clear. The Greek Orthodox Church also has funds to finance its church houses. What else should we do to allow that to happen? They wouldn't have any chance for their religious practice. Therefore, I believe that this law does more than bring about a peace of religion than would fear. In reality, this is a policy that we do not sign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e21494	We shall now come to the final vote, and that is what Mr El Habbassi has said. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e21515	Mr President. Dear Minister! High house! Maybe just a moment to remember: What we are currently discussing is a federal law on the regulation of the external legal relations of Islamic religious societies. I think that should be kept in mind once, because if you follow this discussion closely, you have the impression that security policy, in principle about history and many other things, is being philosophized here. It is not about security policy, it is not about anti-terrorism law, nor is it about determining which religious societies should exist. It is not, above all, about where radicalism begins, where it ceases and how it can be prevented, as much as it must be our intention in all our considerations to create legislation that clearly states that democracy and legal order apply in Austria, and not self-justice, murder or other crimes that harm society. I would like to recall once again the sentence that Mr Wittmann has pronounced today: Integration does not take place through splitting. – I don’t think a peaceful living together takes place by splitting. What we are experiencing here is not just a division, but a division that comes very subtlely – that is, the impression awakens as if it were differentiating, as if it were different between the good and the bad. In fact, it is spread in small by-sets that Islam is associated with Burka, who is not a Muslim tradition, that Islam has something to do with homicides, which is not the case either. I believe that in the discussion we need an objective separation of these facts. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I am very much with you, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, that we cannot address the fears of the citizens. We must also address these, and we must also address it when crimes and terrorism are committed on behalf of different religions. But that this is basically to be rejected, that is perhaps worth mentioning, but, as I believe, it is not called into question. What matters to me is: We are not blaming anything of the German Chancellor Merkel, but the statement that Islam belongs to Austria is nothing other than Mr Kickl's statement that we recognize that Muslim citizens here in Austria are part of this society, that they adhere to the legal system, that they want to participate here, that they want to be part of society, and that they therefore also have a right to resort to a modern legal construction like all other religious societies – including the Islamic religious society. This includes, as we have stated here in this Islam law, for example, the maintenance of cemeteries, training in German language in Austria and religious instruction in German and based on our state and basic laws. That's something I don't think should be bad. The general suspicion that exists against this law is not based on this law, but on the discussion that we hold – on this often very mixed discussion, not differentiation discussion – and on the constant spread of prejudices. When I hear these examples from France, I wonder: What distinguishes us from France? – We have our own Islam law, Islam is recognized as well as other major religious societies, and thus citizens who grow up in Austria, live in Austria and are Austrian citizens feel as part of society. This discussion, which has now been held, has contributed to the fact that this is not the case again. That is why I would like to call on all of you to give this law your consent. We have also requested some amendments, for example, in consultation with the religious societies, that the religious teachers – including the Theological Faculty – should of course belong to this religious society or at least confess to religion. I would like us to finally reach this consensus, that all fellow citizens – regardless of religion, which religious confession and even without religious confession – are part of this society, and that we stop inciting one another, heating up the mood – whether subtle or not – and so contribute to the fact that terror, disfavor and crimes of every kind are involved in our society. What we have experienced in France, we do not want it in Austria – this law would be a good contribution to this! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e21572	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall come to the vote. First of all, the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member is a matter of urgency. Stefan, Dr. Lintl. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of reiterating the draft law concerning a federal law establishing a federal law on the external legal conditions of Islamic religious societies in 469 of the Supplements to the Constitutional Committee. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. We shall therefore vote on the draft law in 469 of the Supplements. Mrs Wittmann, Mr Mag. Hiezu. Mr Gerstl, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment. I will therefore first vote on the proposed amendment and then on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on, in the version of the Committee's report. Deputies Dr. Wittmann, Mag. Gerstl, colleagues and others have tabled an amendment concerning Sections 24 and 31. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this amendment to give an acceptable sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign of approval. – In turn, this is accepted by a majority. We therefore come to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to give their approval to the draft law at third reading, too, for a sign. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. Debates of the European Parliament Dietrich, colleagues on 'Hahl certifications'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. [[16:30:33]] 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report by the Committee on Human Rights on Amendment 882/A(E) by Mr Harry Buchmayr, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Nikolaus Berlakovich, colleagues on the preservation of Austria's pioneering role in abolishing the death penalty (468 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e21680	We're coming to the 11th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e21707	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The death penalty is probably contrary to the most important human right, namely the right to life. I would therefore like to thank all of my colleagues for this joint request, for this initiative, because it is not necessary to tire out to fight this issue. According to Amnesty International, the death penalty was executed in at least 22 states in 2013 alone, and in the world alone, at least 700 executions were carried out in 2013. This means an increase of 15 percent. We are now talking about recognised states that have imposed such judgments, and not about any terrorists of the ISIS or Boko Haram. More than 1,900 people have been sentenced to death and more than 23,000 people are in death cells and are waiting for their execution. First of all China, Iran, Iraq, Saudi Arabia, Somalia, Sudan and the USA are responsible for 95 percent of all executions. The demand for a worldwide departure from the death penalty is necessary for many reasons, especially when considering what crimes the death penalty in these countries is often imposed on: for economic criminals, for God-worshipping, for homosexuality, for political articulations, but also for adultery and the like. The death penalty is applied not only to cruel acts, but also to crimes that are not considered to be crimes in Austria. Europe is a pioneer, only in Belarus, the death penalty is still being executed. State killing in the name of supposed justice contradicts our fundamental values. The Council of Europe and the European Union are pioneers in the fight for the abolition of the death penalty. They work regularly and also vehemently for the introduction of a moratorium. In Austria too, we must not let down, bilaterally, but also at European level or at the level of the United States. Nations are doing all they can to eliminate the death penalty in other countries. Foreign Minister Kurz is committed to this. - Thank you for that. However, it must also be stressed that the work of the organisations, the NGOs, is particularly important. Amnesty International, Alive and others are very committed, courageous and consistently committed to this goal. We must not be silent where to speak and act, and therefore our common request is that, within the framework of the UN resolutions, we use a moratorium against the death penalty, that we work together with EU partners in different countries to eliminate the death penalty, and that non-governmental organisations should also be supported in their efforts to bring about a breakthrough in this basic attitude. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e21752	The next item is Mrs Bayr's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e21774	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Morocco: Report criticises the prison conditions of those sentenced to death. – ‘Telquel’. Draft law to abolish the death penalty in Washington State presented to the government. – ‘The Seattle Times’. According to recent surveys, 80 percent of people in Japan support the death penalty. – ‘AsiaOne’. Egypt: Court confirms death sentences of 183 supporters of the Muslim Brotherhood. – ‘BBC News’. Oklahoma wants to reintroduce the gas chambers for the execution of the death penalty. – ‘The Huffington Post’. Pennsylvania's governor suspends the death penalty. – ‘The Washington Post’. And so on and so on; I have here a whole list of headlines of the international press only from January and February this year. The death penalty is an international issue, partly with gratifying, partly with terrifying tendencies. This motion for a resolution, which we are discussing today, is being carried very wide - that is fine - and is addressed to the government, as is usual in the case of motions for resolutions. That's normal. I just believe that it is also very important to live in parliamentary diplomacy. We have discussed this in the Committee in connection with Uganda and the issues of LGBT's rights. There are a lot of parliamentary international networks. One of the oldest, Parliamentarians for Global Action, was founded in 1978 and has a focus specifically on the topics of peace, democracy, the rule of law, human rights, gender justice, non-discrimination and the development of the population, has, accordingly, campaigns carried by parliamentarians worldwide to abolish the death penalty, to a stricter arms trade law, to nuclear disarmament, to combat impunity, and advocates for the International Criminal Court to sign and carry the Rome Statute by as many countries as possible. I know that in Austria it has no tradition at all to have content, thematic groups on certain topics, but I think it is quite time to break with this tradition. We could set up a national group of this organization. I would invite all those who focus on international international law, on human rights, to report to me. Perhaps there is an interest, and perhaps we will also take a little further from Austria at the parliamentary level in this important question. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e21832	The next item is Mrs. Dr. Winter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e21853	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. In this resolution, the two government groups jointly reaffirm their rejection of all forms of death penalty and support all measures, both bilaterally and at European level and at the level of the United Nations, which are designed to permanently abolish the death penalty. The FPÖ has agreed to this request in committee, and we will now and here in plenary. However, I would very much like to make a criticism with regard to the EU. The EU is an institution that is popular as a pioneer in the global fight against the death penalty. In Europe, the high Ross is happy to look down on other countries that still have the death penalty in their programme. Again: No question, even the liberal movement is absolutely opposed to the death penalty, but – and now I want to add some questions –: Is it our right in Europe to measure other countries of the world with elevated pointing finger in a moral and obedigent way, while at the same time logistically supporting the US's illegitimate and humane drone murders? Can we fight morals against other countries in the world who still have the death penalty in their case law when NATO – and most members of the EU are now NATO members – spreads destruction, violence and death throughout the world in wars of international law? Can we be credible about the death penalty in the world if we do not find clear words against the crimes in the Israeli-Palestine conflict? Can the EU be perceived crediblely in the world as an opponent of the death penalty when an EU country such as – and this is our neighboring country – Germany delivers heavy battle tanks and other arms to human regimes such as Saudi Arabia? I'd say, No, no, no, As long as we are marching through the world in Europe with massive double standards and double morals in our foreign policy, I believe, we cannot overly criticise other countries. I think in this way the words and actions of the EU are very often sound and smoke. Yes, it is true that there is the right to life, that is a human right. This is to be and must be recognized globally, not a question. But is it not time in a multipolar world to ask if each country has the right to its own development? I think it's important to think about it. It is natural, and I know very well that it is very difficult for internationalists to understand what I mean by that. Nevertheless, I remain in my opinion: Sovereign States have a right to independent and self-determined legal development. My last sentence – at the same time I would like to express another thought and fear –: The return of the death penalty could happen faster in the EU than we all imagine. I would like to refer here to Article 2 of the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights, because this is a very important text. It prohibits the death penalty in the EU, in the Explanatory Notes to this Article 2 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights in the Official Journal of the European Union of 14. However, the death penalty is declared admissible on December 2007 when it comes to beating a riot or a revolt. Now, guess what happens when the eurozone really collapses one day, people have been deprived of their savings and are in front of the shards of their financial existence. – You guessed right: People's uprisings in Europe – and the return of the death penalty in the EU would thus be pave the way. We will all be the sufferers, therefore: Think exactly about your dependence on the EU! – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e21915	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Korun. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e21936	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Ladies and gentlemen at the visitor gallery and in front of the screens! Every execution of the death penalty is just too much. Every country in which the death penalty is still not abolished is exactly a country too much. In this sense, of course, we support the Federal Government's initiative to abolish the death penalty worldwide – and in those countries where this cannot yet be achieved, at least a moratorium, where the death penalty has not yet been abolished by law. Such an initiative can only be supported, so I will not address the details now, because of course it is more than useful. However, I do not want to mention what it looks like in a specific country. Our last knowledge is: 28 Enforcement of the death penalty since 1. January 2015. – This is Saudi Arabia, the famous alliance partner of our federal government in intercultural and interreligious dialogue. [[Call the ÖVP:Na na!]] [[Abg. Wheeler: She can't leave it!]] – No, Mr Rädler, his sign of the ÖVP’s integration spokesperson, I cannot let it hold on to human rights, and I am still proud of that – “the pride of it”! [[Congratulations on the Greens and Members of the NEOS.]] [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP.]] I and we will not let ourselves be used for human rights in Austria and worldwide, nor will we allow you to point out your specific policy and the partly devastating effects of this concrete policy. [[Abg. Wheeler: That's it! Comments!]] In Saudi Arabia, there were about 90 death sentences in 2014, as far as statistics can be found. ==References== January 2015 is at least as early as 28. Your alliance partner Saudi Arabia, who here on the Ringstraße is supposed to fund intercultural and interreligious dialogue, is focusing on a sad “record year” – under the quotation mark. In this context, too, I find it more than supportive that the Federal Government is setting up this initiative, which we naturally and very much like to support, because we expect this initiative to be used also by your Alliance Partner and your Dialogue Partner Saudi Arabia, so that these cruel executions – by the way, carried out with the sword, for those who do not yet know – will really have an end to these cruel executions. [[Abg. Wheeler: Which alliance partner?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Schönegger: How does it go without speaking?- Oh, my God!]] Of course, we are in favour of the Federal Government working together with international partners, other EU countries and the UN in all other countries where the death penalty has not been abolished. It will be your responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, to work for the abolition of the death penalty and the abolition of executions every Friday after the Friday prayer, even with your “dialogue-making” partner Saudi Arabia. [[Abg. Rädler: It's so appalling!]] [[Abg. Kickl: She's right!]] Thank you many times for the initiative and for your activities.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e22061	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e22083	Mr President. Mr. Minister! I believe that any initiative relating to the abolition of the death penalty is worth being supported if you consider how many countries there are still in the world where the death penalty exists. It's at least 22. About 800 executions were carried out in 2013. There are still up to 24 000 people sitting in death cells. This number is independent of the dark number, that is, from the countries where we simply don't know if there are people in death cells. I believe that one can only support such an initiative, I think it is right. I also believe that it has been very well taken up by the Foreign Minister because it is always explicitly focusing on human rights. I believe that we – Austria – must meet our duty together, even if we may not, with this individual initiative, immediately bring all countries to the effect that they will change the laws accordingly. But it is our duty not to remain calm, but to continue, with such a fundamental right – namely the right to life –, especially in countries such as Saudi Arabia, but also in all other countries. We have to stress this over and over again. It is not possible to stress this too often because it is still absurd and barbarous that such punishments are enforced. Mrs Winter, I do not quite understand the comparison you have made here. I believe that even if the European Union makes mistakes in certain areas – that is to say, you do not mind – or does not address certain things too much, it can continue to point it out clearly and say: It can't be that in legal systems there is the possibility that offenders for their Crimes are executed! That must be said again and again, and it is also very important that we continue to repeat this together with all those who oppose the death penalty and do not have it.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e22125	The next item is the report by Mr Eßl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e22146	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, Mrs Korun, the ÖVP is acting without compromise on human rights. And discussions, the dialogue is a very important part, so that these human rights are respected worldwide. [[Abg. Steinhauser: Come to the serious part!]] Our Foreign Minister Sebastian Kurzist is the one who conducts this dialogue with many other countries in Europe and worldwide. He is the guarantee that these rights are respected accordingly. [[Abg. Kickl: Do the others know that?]] The most fundamental human right, ladies and gentlemen, is the right to life. Nevertheless, it is still being hurt again and again. Although more than two thirds of the countries in the world have now abolished the death penalty by law or, at least in practice, have ceased to do so, we are far away from a worldwide disregard for the death penalty. That is why we are sitting here and today all of us are putting a sign with this motion for a resolution, disregarding the death penalty accordingly. Amnesty International reports and other organisations show that there is no death penalty in two thirds of all countries. But only one third of the world's population lives in these countries that are no longer establishing. Two thirds of the people live in those countries that still view the death penalty as an adequate means of punishment and enforce it by law. State killing is therefore not a minority programme in the case of Weitem. The death penalty is still being imposed in 22 states. 95 percent of the executions are executed in the countries of China, Iran, Iraq, Saudi Arabia, USA, Somalia and Sudan. China is considered to be the country with the world’s most executions, but the death penalty is also executed in other countries. Thus, while the number of executions in the US has slightly dropped, we must draw attention to the fact that this cannot be the case. The death penalty is not an appropriate means for us to avoid violations of law, because, apart from the moral point of view, any misdemeanors can never be corrected again. We must therefore do everything we can to abolish the death penalty worldwide. The right to life must apply equally to all people in the world, no matter in which country they live, no matter where their beliefs belong, no matter what crimes they are accused of. I can end my speech with a quote from Erich Kästner, which points to today's subject: “In all the displeasure that happens, not only are the guilt that does it, but also those that do not prevent it.” That is why the motion for a resolution that we are adopting today is concerned with: We shouldn't all be unparticipated spectators!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e22201	Mr Fichtinger came to speak as the last speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e22223	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! We write the 21st. The century of our Christian era, and that the death penalty is imposed and executed in more than 20 countries of the world today, actually sheds a sad light on the condition of humanity. In thousands of years of his case law, man has managed to think of infinitely cruel methods of transporting people from life to death by state hand, but also by private means. Even today, more than 800 people are sentenced to death by state hands and are ultimately also given the death penalty. These are the numbers we know of, with a much higher number of darks. For example, China does not disclose its figures for this purpose. There is, however, thanks to God in this regard also gratifying news. Despite some setbacks, and some of them have already been quoted today, according to the latest report by the UN Secretary-General on the "Question of the Death Penalty" in 2013, there are at least 150 of 193 UN Member States that abolished the death penalty or at least introduced a moratorium for its execution. Every step and initiative to increase the number of these countries is to be welcomed and supported. Within the framework of our parliamentary possibilities, official Austria will not fail to do everything bilaterally, at European or international level, in order to eliminate the death penalty worldwide. The present proposal is another step in this direction, and we therefore request broad approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e22260	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We come to the vote on the resolution on the conservation of Austria's pioneering role in abolishing the death penalty attached to the Committee's report 468 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 65.) [[16:53:52]] [[12. Point]] Report by the Committee on Human Rights on Amendment No 537/A(E) by Mr Tanja Windbüchler-Souschill, Members and colleagues on cooperation to end violence against women and girls in India (467d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e22308	We're on the 12th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. First speaker is Mrs Dipl.-Kffr. (FH) Pfurtscheller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e22345	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate viewers in front of the screens and at the visitor gallery! The bad situation of women and girls in India, especially the high level of sexual violence, gained international media attention for the first time through the extremely violent mass rape of an Indian student in a bus in Delhi in December 2012. Since this and some other incidents that have gone through the media around the world, the criminal provisions in India have been heightened by the state in this area, and the public and the police have also been more sensitive. However, especially in rural areas, this information has not yet arrived. Traditionally, women in India are treated very badly and in no way equal, also because of the boxing system. There is still a great gap between legislation and implementation. Foreign women are also continually becoming victims of sexual violence in India. The protection of women and girls from violence is one of Austria's external priorities in the field of human rights. Our Foreign Minister Sebastian Kurzmacht is strong on the international parquet vehement for women's rights. The situation of women in India was most recently addressed by Austria, both in bilateral contacts and in the context of the EU. I would like to thank you very much for this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On the occasion of the International Women's Day in March 2013, a European guest comment on violence against women was published in the Indian newspaper "The Indian Express", which presented European solutions in the fight against violence against women. This issue was also presented in the bilateral human rights dialogue between the EU and India in November 2013. In advance, a meeting of selected representatives of local women's rights organisations was also held at the initiative of the Austrian Embassy. Austria is on the edge of the 57th century. Meeting of the Women’s Status Commission in New York in March 2013 organised a highly respected panel event on the issue of “Fight Against Violence against Women and the Role of the Justice System”. In addition to two Austrian experts, a leading representative of the women's rights movement in India discussed the situation of women and girls as well as other options for action. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] I think these contributions from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have been important and correct, but we must continue to draw attention to this issue nationally and internationally. Rape must not be a taboo for us! Physical integrity is a human right. Unfortunately, rapes in this country are still far too common and often sad reality. They're pure violence, they're a human rights violation. We have to point this out again and again and use it to ensure that effective steps are taken against it. In this sense, we will, of course, agree with this request from the Greens. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e22403	Mrs Gessl-Ranftl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e22426	Mr President. Minister! High house! The extent of violence against women and girls in India is merciless and terrifying. The list ranges from rape, domestic violence, homicides and girl killings to co-toxic murders. According to the Indian government, a woman is raped every 22 minutes. The activists, however, assume a much higher number of darks. In 2013, around 310 000 crimes against women and girls were reported to the Indian government. This is an increase of more than one quarter compared to 2012. In 2014 alone more than 2,000 rapes were registered in New Delhi, which is an increase of more than 30 percent compared to the previous year. As my previous speaker said, after the brutal rape of a young woman in December 2012 in New Delhi, the violent violence in India was widely discussed and also triggered international high waves of indignation. According to a newspaper report from the “Standard” in January 2015, the Indian government now wants to fight the extremely widespread violence against women with police special units. For this purpose, 2,500 officials will be employed throughout the country, according to a proposal by Minister of the Interior Singh. A third of the police are supposed to be women. So far, so good. – But one remembers the words of Babulal Gaur, the Minister of the Interior of the state of Madhya Pradesh, who expressed the following, I quote: "It is a social act that depends on the man and the woman. Sometimes it’s right and sometimes wrong.” Against this background, I already have the question of whether this project will be implemented in reality at all. I therefore believe that it is essential for governments to commit themselves at EU level and support the efforts of the government in India not only, but also to make it clear indisputably clear that violence against women, especially rape, is not a cavalier offence and is to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e22467	The next speaker is Mr Riemer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e22488	Mr President. Federal Minister! The previous speaker said it quite well with this quote: "It is a social act that depends on the man and the woman. Sometimes it’s right and sometimes wrong.” But Babulal Gaur has also continued to say that politics cannot do anything to prevent these actions. As a liberal, we will vote in favour of the proposal, even on the basis of the title “Cooperation to End Violence Against Women and Girls”. But we must also take into account what is feasible and what is not. And here I do not know whether we do not actually trust ourselves too much when I read here that it is a question of ‘to use bilateral, multilateral and at EU level to support the efforts of the government in India’. Yes, my God! We should support the Government of India, which is not at all capable of taking appropriate action with its official apparatus itself.- Oh, my God! We're talking about these women here. We are talking about these impressive and terrifying processes. Everyone still has the pictures of these two girls hanging on a tree after they had been raped before. And everyone still has the news about the rape of this student in the ear. - Horrible, bad! But India has not been mentioned today in the death penalty – please, there is also that there! And we're not talking about the Kashmir conflict, we're not talking about thousands of people just disappearing. We're not talking about people who are killed by torture in India. We're not talking about the Results of forensic investigations of graves found. We are not talking about multinational corporations that have their interests – perhaps the EU is there too? – have wanted to be represented in India. This is actually a terrible scenario, and there is also a lot of hypocrisy, because this is about expropriation. We are not talking about Bhopal, where this poison disaster has happened, and we are not talking about the fact that the EU, where it has interests, has done nothing at all. I am thinking, for example, of international slavery, and I would also like to refer to our request, which we made only a year ago, in which it was a question of abandoning this international slavery. Isn't that actually hypocrisy? What if the Indians asked us: What do you do with 800,000 slaves, girls and women who come to shame in the EU? What if they ask the Austrians how they treat violence against women themselves? After all, it is said that every third woman has been sexually harassed, and of this third, 25 percent have been rape victims. I think we're doing well not to throw stones in the glass house. We should also honor the culture there. If you expect – 80 percent are Hindus and about 13 percent Muslims – please, we are talking about 1.2 billion people here! We also have to do everything in Austria to find a good solution in this respect in our own country. So let's see that we're about to end up in Austria and then in the EU! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e22536	Mrs Windbüchler-Sushill. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e22558	Mr President. Mr. Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! One would never rule out the other, ladies and gentlemen. In the fight against violence against women and girls in Austria, the fight against violence against women and girls in Europe, and the global fight against violence against women and girls, there must be an end to gender violence. In order for an important step to be taken in the right direction, it really needs all actors at all levels. Gender-specific violence is never private, nor can it be. The Austrian women's house movement and the women's rights movement have it for us over the last 18 years – or longer, over the last 20 years plus! – predetermined how gender-specific violence can be effectively curbed. For 18 years there has been the Austrian Anti-Violence Act, which clearly shows that the wheel against violence needs the shoulder closure, namely the shoulder closure all institutions: There are advisory bodies that provide support and advice. There is justice, the prosecutor's office. There's the executive. – The trained executive is extremely important in the fight against violence against women and children. There is youth welfare, child and youth assistance. All this is the wheel against violence, and that must be a good thing. We practice this shoulder closure well in Austria. We have a lot of experience – and of course you can point out that it can always be better. Nevertheless, the experience and know-how are existing and should also be offered to countries such as India, so that there is an international bridge in this regard and this question is addressed in an international context. That is precisely what this request is aimed at, because, as has already been said, a woman is raped in India for about 22 minutes. This is an official number – we don't know the dark number – and it's an incredible number: A woman is raped in India every 22 minutes. But it's not just about rape, it's about much more. – It’s about kidnappings, harassments, abuses, domestic violence. It's about forced marriages, it's about acidates, it's also about murders in the name of the so-called honor. All of this has nothing to do with religion, even that has already been discussed today, but all these are the results of a society in which a man is worth much, much more than a woman. The UN Special Rapporteur on violence against women has clearly demonstrated and reported on this gender violence in India. This report, of course, also contains demands and recommendations to those responsible for politics, and one of these recommendations is the international merger. It is also important for this reason to share comprehensively our know-how and experience in the fight against violence with women and girls. That is why I am very grateful for the fact that there is a close of Parliament for this green request. I also hope that the Minister for Women and the Foreign Affairs will take initiatives to actually combat violence against women and girls. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e22606	The next speaker was Mr Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e22627	Mr President. Mr. Minister! In a similar way to the discussion on the death penalty, we have here again the clear moral obligation that we deal very massively with this situation in India, which is about violence against women and girls. We have already heard the figures and know, as Mrs Windbüchler-Souschill has just said, not even the dark ones. The numbers that exist are already terrifying enough – I don't want to know what the dark figures look like and how terrible the numbers are actually. And yes, Mr Riemer, of course we must also look in our own house and in Austria to do our homework. But the same applies to the death penalty as before, because even if that is the case – and I agree with you that in Austria we must also take action against all violence against women and girls – we should nevertheless try to pass on our know-how. We have acquired this know-how in connection with the fact that we are fighting violence against women and girls. And if the Indian government now has the awareness that there is a massive problem here – and This awareness of the problem she has in the meantime – then we have to support it and stand by it accordingly. Because we already have the second proposal from the Committee on Human Rights on international issues: I believe it is our duty to increase our concern for human rights in Austria. And now, as you all know, we have the situation that up to 750 unaccompanied minors are stuck in federal care facilities without special care because there are not enough facilities in the countries. The Federal Services are in and out of temporary facilities, and therefore there is not the care they need. Public Prosecutor Herbs just recently complained. He said that it can't be that we don't give exactly these people, these young people who need special care, the care they need. One essential point is that the daily rate for the care of unaccompanied minors is much lower than the normal daily rate of child and youth assistance. It is true that the daily rate for unaccompanied minor refugees is between €39 and €77 and between €120 and €140 in child and youth assistance. But now it is the case that we in Austria have enshrined children's rights in the Constitution, and it is quite clear within that every child who is released from his family environment is entitled to special protection and assistance from the state. It is clear that it cannot make any difference where this child comes from, and it is also clear that we must let all children grow in the same way. If Mr Volksanwalt were to carry out this completely properly, I would of course be pleased if the SPÖ saw it that way, and if we were to comply with the obligations we have under the Convention on Children's Rights. Accordingly, I would like to make the following motion for a resolution and, of course, I would be very pleased if the SPÖ agreed with it in particular: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e22691	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e22766	Next speaker: Mrs Yılmaz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e22787	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Violence against women has many manifestations: psychological violence, physical violence, and sexual violence. All these forms of violence are human rights violations because they violate the right to self-determination. On the other hand, we have to deal with this worldwide. It is therefore also very important that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs at all levels – OSCE, European Union, Council of Europe – try to curb violence against girls and women in India. It is also a measure in the National Action Plan on the Protection of Women from Violence 2014-2016, but it is important for us as the National Council to point out the situation in India and to support the two ministers – Foreign Minister Kurz and Minister for Women Heinisch-Hosek – in their work. Ladies and gentlemen, gender violence usually affects women, not only in India. Physical assaults are the endpoint and the most extreme expression of violence against girls and women. The hatred of women, for example, who are anonymous on the Internet, this hatred, especially on female feminists, is also an expression of patriarchal conditions. The tragic endpoint of a social reality in which women are suppressed, discriminated against, humiliated or simply not taken seriously is attacks and murders of women and girls, mostly impoverished as “family tragedy”. Yes, it is about power, possibilities and resources. It is about redistribution and equality. We stand for equality, a life at the same level and equal opportunities for men and women. We are all committed to this, and I am very glad that it is a common decision to support this request. We should do this not only now, but also for the future, not only in India or Austria, but everywhere. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e22818	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Darmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e22839	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Federal Minister! High house! My colleague, Mr Riemer, has already outlined the position of the Group of the European Free Alliance on this resolution that has just been discussed. There is nothing to add to this in terms of content, and we will give this request our support. However, I would very much like to bring some thoughts into this debate, and I would like to do so with well-known winging words, ladies and gentlemen. Why wander in the distance? Look, the good is so close! – In alternation of this very positive message in itself, one could also say: Why wander in the distance? Look, evil is so close! Ladies and gentlemen, as a member of the Committee on Justice, I remember the discussion during the last week when we made a request for a life-long ban on sexual offenders in our criminal law in their field of work, so that pre-punished sexual offenders will never have the opportunity to act in the fields of education, training and supervision of minors, but also of defenseless and psychologically impaired persons, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I am still aware of the debate and I also appreciate the fact that everyone – I emphasize – has followed the content of opposition parties to the reasoning of the liberals in this committee and has joined our request. However, red and black, i.e. the Social Democracy and the Austrian People's Party, could not be convinced of this – I would almost try to formulate it positively – because at the beginning we did not even want to give us the chance to discuss the application in terms of content, but wanted to postpone it immediately. That is why I would like to keep it as I have literally announced in the Committee: I am not going to let go of the Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Party on this subject. I will also, on behalf of the Liberal Group, always put my finger in this wound in our criminal code as long as there is no appropriate improvement of this regulation, which will continue to make it possible, in the future, for pre-punished sexual offenders to return to the fields of education, training and supervision of minors, despite a certain period of conviction. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Hagen.]] Ladies and gentlemen, women's, girls' and children's protection starts at their own doorstep. Let us be aware of this responsibility and act accordingly! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e22899	Mrs Magnette has now come to speak. Grossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e22921	Mr President. Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What reaches us about atrocities against women and girls from India over the media is only the tip of the iceberg of day-to-day atrocities that do not see the light of the media. We must by no means stifle and not tire of looking at each opportunity and calling for action at a bilateral, multilateral level wherever one is active. For delegations, a functioning judicial system that consistently pursues crimes and, of course, laws that create an unfair awareness of everyday discrimination is a command of the hour! [[President Bures takes over the presidency again.]] In this area, there is indeed a lot to be done in Austria as well. Now, however, a number of things have already been foreseen, such as the recast of the rape section or a provision for the protection of sexual self-determination. Da_te In Austria too, everything is not as it should be. But to return to India: Within the framework of the Development Partnership, it is also important to give women economic independence, because the feeding ground for violence is mostly economic dependence. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e22960	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the resolution on cooperation to end violence against women and girls in India, annexed to the Committee's report 467. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 66.) We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Scherak, colleagues, on the increase in daily rates in basic care for unaccompanied minor refugees. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[17:21:02]] 13. Point Report of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure pursuant to Article 33(2) of the Rules of Procedure 6 GOG-NR on the request for the establishment of an investigation committee pursuant to § 33 GOG-NR to examine the political responsibility for the operations relating to the Hypo Group Alpe-Adria (Hypo Investigation Committee) (1/US/484 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e23021	We're coming to the 13th. Agenda item. According to § 33 para. 9 of the Rules of Procedure I expressly propose the setting up of the Hypo-Research Committee, as amended by the Committee's report, 484 of the Supplements to Wednesday, 25. February 2015, at 5.20 p.m. There was no oral reporting. At the gallery, I welcome the trial judge for the Hypo-Research Committee, Dr. Walter Pilgermair. Welcome! [[General condolences.]] [[Procedural judge Pilgermair rises and bows.]] The first is Mr Krainer. - Please. [[Calls: That's not there.]] – Mr Krainer is not present at the moment. I therefore give the floor to Mr Klubobmann, Dr. Lopatka. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e23065	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I can do it briefly. The President-in-Office has already said this: At the beginning of this debate, this Committee of Inquiry is set up in accordance with the new rules of the game. In fact, we do not need the debate at all, but what we need is a climate in this committee of inquiry, which is the focus of the investigation, and a procedure based on rule of law. That's our concern. We as the People's Party want to make our contribution here, and we will cooperate constructively in this Committee of Inquiry. We also expect the other political groups to be in the foreground of the investigation. I am glad that the experts who will accompany us, both the trial judge and the lawyer, have made it quite clear in their initial opinions that they believe that these rules of the game, which we have established, can make a significant contribution to the fact that in the future investigation committees differ from those of which examination committees have suffered in the past, including the fact that party policy hack has established a tribunal, where not always the personality that was available as an informant was protected in their rights. Therefore, I assume that tomorrow, when the start in the work takes place, tomorrow at 9 a.m., the constituent meeting will take place – that this Committee of Inquiry will take up its work well with the support of the trial judge and attorney. Thus, the start has already been successful, because we have come to a very good result. This legal support will be necessary. What I would like to say at the end is that we have the task here – and this applies to all political groups – to making the necessary legislative changes in Parliament when we see the need. This should be the main concern of this Committee of Inquiry, namely to point out systematic errors, and not only because it has already been said by President Griss that errors are located in the system – it has said that we have a multi-organ failure – but that we are then committed to individuals and say that we have now reached our goal with the Committee of Inquiry. In my opinion, we have achieved our goal if we prevent what has become possible with this Carinthian crime by means of legal changes in origin. This has become a burden for the whole Republic. We are now invited to do everything so that something like this can never happen again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e23107	Next, Mr Podgorschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e23129	Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen on the screens! The Committee of the Rules of Procedure has now reached a conclusion with the setting up of the Committee of Inquiry – a conclusion after long negotiations. I am thinking only of more than 20 applications for the establishment of an investigation committee which has been introduced since 2010. But this is not the conclusion that we can lean back and say that now we have achieved everything, but that is the beginning of the actual work that is ahead of us. I offer constructive work to all the political groups, and above all to you, Madam President, and to the new judge, because the objective must be to clarify all the areas and facets of this whole hypo-alpe-adria affair. Regardless of the persons and institutions, light must simply shine at the end of the tunnel. It was – Mr Lopatka has already said it – a multi-organ failure of state institutions, according to the Griss report, and there were many misconceptions, including false information and probably false deliberations with regard to the control. The Griss report – I have been addressed several times: For what Do we need another committee? – must not be the end, but must be the beginning of this committee. That's just the guide we need to see where mistakes happened. Some questions have to be answered in this committee. I'm just thinking about it: Who were the winners of a nationalization? Where did the billions flow? Were creditors treated preferably? Who are anonymous bond believers? Have there been conflicts of interest between decision-makers? My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, there must also be an objective in mind, and I believe that this objective can only be achieved if we keep the damage to the taxpayer as low as possible. To this end, the Committee should also make a contribution. At the end of this committee, my personal objective is to find that there is a disunity between finance, banking and policy, and that there must simply be a cool-down phase when politicians are actively engaged in supervisory councils of a bank. Finally, this should be the aim of this Committee: to unbundle the banking world and policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e23171	Next, Mr Magistrate. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e23192	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Some points on what the expectations and hopes for this committee are. First: Results for the benefit of taxpayers. Secondly, What can be done in addition to the Commission's report by Mrs Griss? – In retrospect, we must stress – perhaps one last time, but still like – that this was a good work. I misestimated that. A Commission set up by the Government can also do a good job over long distances, but it has not looked at everything for a long time. It is therefore also about additions, deepenings and, above all, the backgrounds. That's what we're going to do. Thirdly, The question: What can this Committee contribute to current issues? – This too is a contribution to the protection of taxpayers, to the maximum protection of taxpayers. – As I mean, more than many of us believe. I address the question of how we always express it, “orderly insolvency. ” Finally, it will be possible, particularly in connection with the Committee's working methods, to see file delivery, working density and what we can do in addition to what we can expect from a parliamentary inquiry. A year may be a lot, depending on what kind of work plan you can do, for a work cycle, and for how you work. That is why I would like to make a few comments. First of all, something general – this is always true, but here in particular –: Every investigation, whether it's still so much the impression that you'd only be able to light up the crushed, spilled milk, has its good, because of course the causes that have led to this milk spilling can be considered on that – that's what Mr. Klubobmann Lopatka said – that some things at least not repeated. We will not agree on every assessment, but some, perhaps much, are not to repeat in agreement – even without a credit of what we might call guilt. Of course, we will ask ourselves questions of responsibility. I am quite confident that there is something going on in the direction, or at least we know from many Members of the opposition parties, probably also from the government parties, on which it is important: of course, to deepen the awareness in the institutions, which are used for supervision. It is never perfect in the world – just no misunderstanding – but would, even in the sense of what we or our predecessors have established, with the tasks of the National Bank, only right with the financial market supervision that was first established in 2001 and installed in 2002, which in addition to the National Bank, would all work as they should, or would we have made all the laws right to have the right instruments in their hands, then it would be ideal to never come to what we are now investigating. There may be several breaks, there's a look at that. I add once again – with fewer suspicions now – that even the not so well slandered banking investigation committee, which is a few years behind, has led to the result that we have improved laws such as the Banking Act, the Financial Market Supervision Act and the like more jointly, I think, even unanimously, even though it was particularly conflict-oriented and difficult at the time. That's gonna work out here, too. I conclude this first point with the fact that this is also useful and necessary, because the institutions of the National Bank and the Financial Markets Supervisory Board have in the future decided to do an extremely important task because of European rules that we have adopted here and only a few months ago, at the end of 2014, have decided. So they're supposed to work well. And this has a lot to do with avoiding mistakes which have so far been obvious and which we still have to clarify in depth, in particular with regard to the cooperation of the two institutions. Unfortunately, we have no bridge of cooperation in front of us, we have seen this already in 2007 along the BAWAG scandal. But even in the hypo – I think you can already anticipate that – Griss report, the Court of Auditors' raw account, some of them already know it – it is not a bridge function that was carried out there, but there were graves and holes. Otherwise, it would be impossible to explain that in the National Bank as a local authority, there was quite a lot of knowledge about the state of the mortgage, but that authority that had instruments of intervention under the Financial Market Supervision and Banking Act did not, or did not, sufficiently or too late. That's obvious, we're going to deepen that. If we move on, we have done a great deal for the future. I know this is all very abstract, but I have still allowed myself to address this now, because I also want to express that the laborious work of deepening can also bring a lot here. This may be the most common thing and is least spectacular. I'm willing to predict or admit that if you want to. It is also an appeal that you do not look primarily at the cheap points when it comes to long-term things. Secondly, Motives, interests, backgrounds. Mrs Griss said it was not even her concern to clarify her approach. We should do that. Some media have written, the investigation committee will now be beautiful slowly, just as the Court of Auditors' raw material report has increasingly – it is even more dramatic than the Griss report – called Ross and Reiter. – Well, I do not want to express it so dramatically, but the responsibilities we can and should question as a person of information have the opportunity, on the one hand, to explain the commitment to what the motives were, possibly also decision-making conflicts. No one says it was all easy. On the contrary! On the other hand, there is the question: What were the interests that have affected here? What interests have been followed? Did there have any conflicts of interest? Last: Who used this? – That is why it will be interesting to see which file situation we are using here, otherwise the question who might have used it will not be so easy to answer. Orderly insolvency – that’s something about the future. Ex-Finanzminister Vice-Chancellor Spindelegger was already at least on the quarter, if not half way to go. We will look at what has been done for good or bad reasons; it is always a question of balance, like much in the economy. But now it is already crucial for the work of the new Finance Minister Schelling whether we are able to deliver arguments from the past that make it easier to access – I know, that is difficult to admit – to such an insolvency solution. How does this work in all short forms here and without legal deepening? But when we look at the years 2003 to 2007, we will see that the highlights of the excretion took place there: on the one hand, liability, which, from my point of view, are completely overvalued, at least economically. It was perfectly clear that these are air arrests. It was never the case that Carinthias were rich or rich, but it was the case that Haider-Land was burned down; only that well-known investors, who may not be stupid in principle, from banks to insurance companies to other institutions, believe this whole ghost, put billions into these years, where it had to be completely clear that there was no longer any right thing to do, one cannot imagine today. It's always about ten years of bonds, 90 percent. We'll pay them back from now on. And if we find arguments that these so-called investors are not so safe, so loud, so honest that they have at least been so unskillful that they have to stand up to something and you can't just take the flight into the country's liability – what I want a lot of pleasure; I'm looking at what to get there – then you can go there quietly with cooler head and transport the thing. In addition, it may be that the Committee offers good arguments when we see that in 2005, 2006, 2007 there was already much more knowledge about the state of the hypo, including for managers of such funds et cetera, than is admitted to this day. That would be at least a political, ethical argument, that would be an economic argument that once again, when we talk about the market economy, we will apply it once or for all. And then we'll do that. Rightly, it's a different track, but there's going to be other people breaking their heads. We can make a contribution. Finally, I think this will also have to be done, especially in the context: What happened? In the bank too! That is because we will need files from the bank – I know the sad issue and you too – to check, on the one hand, how far the supervision has worked or not. If it is the case that the youth welfare system is also there to check whether parents fulfil their supervisory duty – actually a compulsory education – you will not be able to get an overview of the child's condition there or there. And so is it here. Whether and to what extent there are supervisory failures will depend on what was really apparent in the Bank over the years and whether they should not have known, should or may not have been. In addition, if there has been massive indications since 2004/05, what's going on – the argument covers up with that one from before. NEOS, FPÖ and Greens have submitted a proposal to the government groups on the file template. We voted in favour of another proposal, which is correct. However, we maintain the demands for this dossier and we will see – Mr Brosz will address it – what is still possible. We will then see how far the government groups are really willing to participate in this kind of information – which we consider absolutely necessary. That's a possibility we don't want to leave out. We can do this on the basis of voluntaryity, of course we can force some sort of thing on the Minister. I just want to know about the government groups if they're there then.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e23293	I call Mr Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e23314	Madam President. High house! So there is now this committee of inquiry which we have practically forced to do with so many requests. And now it's about providing information with the new rules – it's no secret that we didn't have too much joy there. Of course, with the new rules there are many, many opportunities for the government to continue to cover here. We know that. The question is: Will the government also benefit from these opportunities? – There can be a shared opinion. I'm going to be positive and say, Yes, the government also wants information. Let's get out of it. Unfortunately, we have already received a small foretaste as regards the appointment of the trial judge. We didn't agree as it would have looked. They have tried to put us on the eye of someone who, except that he was and is a party soldier, could not really contribute much to this investigation committee from my point of view. Finally, under pressure from the opposition parties, it was still enough to enable a proper trial judge. I am very glad that the new trial judge is here today, and I hope that he will do what is necessary in the sense of objective information. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] In my view, it is ultimately about finding out whether the Griss Commission was right or not. Because the Griss Commission has claimed that the government was incapable. This is the central claim of the Griss Commission. But I don't think so. I don't think the government was incapable. I think she's been very considerate and dealing with a calcule. Unfortunately, this calculated calculation was directed against taxpayers and costs €20 billion, or perhaps even more. But I believe that there has been a strategy behind that, because you hear – all these are assumptions, but we will clarify everything in the committee – that the Josef Pröll, then chief negotiator, was against a re-state settlement. Then came a call – he said it was a private conversation – and then he suddenly became fire and flame for this nationalization. There will, of course, be the question: Who did he call? Was it perhaps Raiffeisen who had lost 4 billion in case of a case – as one hears now? – We will also try to find out. If it is so that one has tried to save Raiffeisen or the uncle Erwin from Lower Austria losses, and then has unloaded the whole to the taxpayer, then it was not stupid, as the Griss Commission says, but then it was calcul. And here we are exactly where you, Madam President, have told us that you do not want to explain this at all. You said you just wanted to explain the political responsibility. But that would also be relevant under criminal law. After all, Josef Pröll is sitting in a highly-dominated job of the Raiffeisenbank. If at that time he had received an instruction or a motivating boost to do something that costs the taxpayer a lot of money, then it would be very much criminally relevant. That's why we can't separate that. But you want to separate this, you want to separate the criminal relevance from political responsibility. I say: I can't. I can't do that with the hypo. Do you know why that's not possible? – If a bank lends loans for land that does not exist if it completes leasing contracts for boats that have not been purchased, if it supports companies that do not exist at all, I wonder: How is that possible? Is that all stupid? No, I don't think that's it. Somebody deserved it. And I can well imagine that politicians have been there too. And that's what we want to know. [[Abg. Schönegger: Are you a prosecutor? Who?]] – You ask who! That is what we want to find out in the Committee. That's exactly what we want to find out, and then it's also criminally relevant. That's why you can't separate that. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I hope I am wrong because I said when these new procedural rules were created that these new rules will not make much clarification possible. I hope I'm wrong. And I hope the government doesn't use its possibilities to prevent this. I hope so. And we will also make so much pressure from the opposition side – at least from our side – that it will not be possible. But who knows what's happening? Of course, the government has every reason to cover it. Because if it really comes out that the taxpayer is going to suffer billions of damage to help individuals in the party, in parties, in frontal organizations or in close-to-party banks, then that can't be good for this government. And that's the problem. [[Abg. Darabos: (to the speaker looking towards the SPÖ members' seat rows) Wrong direction!]] That's right, wrong direction, you're right. That's where I have to turn to the ÖVP, of course you're right. But the question is also: What did you know? What did the SPÖ know? Was the SPÖ there? Was the SPÖ also involved? It's said Josef Pröll made a phone call to the Faymann. Is that right? You know that? - We'll find out all that. I hope that the government will not wall, not block, and we will finally find out – even for the future: How can we prevent such things? How can we prevent the taxpayers from being asked to pay up to 20 billion for their individual interests? That's what we're going to try to find out, we've done that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e23386	I call Mr Hable. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e23407	Madam President. High house! Estimated citizens! Yes, tomorrow the Committee of Inquiry is also a beautiful day for Austrian parliamentarianism. You should emphasize that. The main objective of this Committee of Inquiry is to clarify: Information on how this multi-system failure could have occurred. And this multi-system failure will only come to the fore if we go into the depths of this investigation. The great danger of the Committee of Inquiry is that we only stay on the surface, that we only scratch on the surface and then examine for months, roll files and pre-load information persons – and afterwards we are as smart as before. This will only be prevented if we go into the depths of the investigation committee – not in all Causae, that would be too much, for this there are too many cases in the hypo, but in selected Causae we must go into the depths to understand and understand this system failure at all. And there the fate of the Committee of Inquiry decides: Will it succeed to go to the depths? Here, of course, we have an indication; an indication, because you already have to say that the start was not a good one. The start was now the decision to provide evidence, i.e. the requirements of the files to be submitted to the committee of inquiry. This evidence decision, which was finally decided, is a very narrow, thin paper. Finally, there are two of them, namely what has actually been decided here, and what the opposition groups have worked out. One is a comprehensive draft, the other decided by the government groups is a very narrow paper. Why? – Because in the opposition groups we have said very detailedly what we want – from all the authorities – and where we also set priorities where we want to go into the depths, and have addressed this very concretely. That is why we have also called for concrete acts on nine pages, while this decision by the government groups is devoted to this very issue. Nine sides of us, one side of the government fractions, I wonder: How do we want to go into the depths on this basis? What's missing? What makes the difference between one side and nine sides? – For example, the difference is that the hypo is missing. No files are requested from the Hypo Alpe-Adria. That is to say, we have an investigation committee, a hypo investigation committee – which even bears this name – but without files from the hypo! We have nothing from foreign authorities either. Well, we also say NEOS, from foreign authorities – as far as Austrian state power is concerned – we cannot demand any submission. But we can voluntarily ask them to do so. This is not from the world, these are friends states, these are Member States of the European Union. Who is it? This concerns Germany with Bavaria; this concerns Croatia; this concerns Bulgaria – all the Member States of the Euro pean Union. European Union. But it's not even tried. That is to say, we have a committee of inquiry, where we do not want files on crucial issues, namely the hypo itself and also where the problems have arisen, where the billions have been reduced, mostly in the Balkans. For the sake of completeness, I must say that the Green and the Blue Group then agreed to the draft government fractions. I couldn't understand that, I don't understand it, because we agree on content that it needs it. But you have to explain that. Of course, it must also be noted that if you look at this finally decided decision on the evidence of the government groups, there is already a bit of humor inside. As I said, the hypo is not included, we do not try it with the foreign authorities, but what is in addition to that? On this one side you managed to put a little something in addition, which we didn't even have: There's the Ministry of Health in there now! Not even we NEOS have assumed that the Ministry of Health has files from the hypo. But maybe you know more. Maybe you know that secret hypo-acts are stored in the Ministry of Health. Then I would ask you to tell us what these are secret files. Detto Ministry of Agriculture: We are now demanding secret hypo-acts from the Ministry of Agriculture. Family Ministry. This is therefore, on the one hand, humorous, but, of course, a little sad, because, of course, it also signals how much will there is to achieve the objective of the Committee of Inquiry, namely to go into the depths. How much political will is behind it to explain? On the basis of this paper now adopted, I cannot see this political will to clarify. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e23475	Mr Darmann. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e23496	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate spectators on the gallery and at home! Let me make my contribution – which unfortunately has to be very short due to the rest of the speaking time, but now we have over a year and a half in the committee to deal more with the subject – to begin by quoting a sentence written on the ceiling of the Small Arms Hall of the Carinthian Landtag, in Latin words: Veritas temporis filia. – The truth is a daughter of the time. This terrible and sintering truth for taxpayers has already been explained and written, in particular, with regard to the “notification” – under quotes – but also the years after the nationalization by the Griss Commission’s report on the one hand and, on the other hand, by the raw report of the Federal Court of Auditors already published in the media. This is, therefore, an indicative plan, a roadmap for the examination committee now set up and to be worked on from tomorrow by means of the constitution, which, in detail for months, for a year or a half, if it has to be, will go into the depth here in order to meet the needs of the Tax payers – it has already been said several times today – work out three topics in particular: On the one hand, it will be a question of preparing the federal government's failure to control the nationalization in 2009, on the other hand, to draw up the nationalization decision and the beneficiaries of this national decision, and on the other hand, the refusal of work and decision-making of this federal government, which I say, in the following years after the nationalisation, in order to find out here also what motivation has led to the fact that a billion damage to the taxpayer has occurred only after the nationalization by non-statutory. If we look at all these points, this is only possible because the people – and I would like to take this opportunity here and today to say this thank you – have enabled more than 200 000 signatures to oppose the refusal by SPÖ and ÖVP in more than 20 votes to set up a committee of inquiry here in the National Council, to set up this committee of inquiry, to put the government on the wall by signing of the population, to launch a reform of the Investigation Committee's Rules of Procedure, and finally to have also a Hypo Examining Committee. It is in the interest of the people to draw the conclusions of the future, in addition to the clarification of the past. Because this has been said several times today and this is also to be underlined by our side: Such damage must not happen again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e23535	I call Mr Brosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e23557	Madam President. Now it's all right. A lot of time has passed until we were ready. Now this hypo committee really starts, which takes place under new game rules. In contrast to Mr Hable, I think that the start has actually been relatively good. When you summarize it: There were no disputes about the admissibility of the subject-matter of the investigation – even that could have happened. This has happened, which was actually the idea: that, despite a minority right, you start relatively soon, you also try together to form such a U-committee, and that every 25 percent minority has rights there too. This will only be successful if not from the outset the attempt is made to take massive action against each other, but one tries to reach a common position on this committee as well. The next steps will soon come to us. The issue of the work plan will be: How do we divide the next twelve months in such a way that what is contained in this subject can also be processed? – This will be a great challenge, because there are a lot of things there and the time concept has to fit. There is, however, the possibility for the opposition parties to make pressure again, because if there is not enough time for individual points, it will be clear that you act with extension. There is also the possibility of re-establishing an investigation committee. However, I think it has been quite well done so far, even as the negotiations were. Now I have to go a little closer to Mr. Hable. We are now discussing by the lawyer, namely you, to non-advertising or non-jurisdiction, namely me. However, over several years I have negotiated this Committee of Inquiry's reform and at least in this area I am likely to have some knowledge. I find it remarkable because it is relatively simple what it is about in Austrian legislation, namely the execution of the federal government – in contrast to Germany, where there are much broader formulations, which can be an subject of investigation at an investigation committee. They're not that limited. But if that is the case – and we have agreed on that – then it was one of the successes that we have already recorded in the Rules of Procedure that all authorities have all the documents to provide. So, and now the question is: What's an authority? What's an organ? And where is the High Authority responsible? The point – this can be rejected three times now, but here you are the only one who sees it differently – that the hypo is not an organ that the hypo is not an authority, is... – What? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hable.]] [[Abg. Hable: That's clear, but...!]] But it is completely absurd that I have a question that is absolutely clear, namely that the hypo as a hypo is not subject to an act template – there is only one in the Republic who sees it differently, and that is you; that is what no one claims that it is inside – yes, the pride too, two! [[Abg. Stroll: Me too! It's two already!]] This is not much better legally. [[intermediate calls at SPÖ and NEOS.]] The point is that one has to separate between the things that are legally enforceable – the legally enforceable are what one can then demand through a minority right – and the things for which one has to find another procedure in order to come up with files. Now we may perhaps be able to discuss more meaningfully what forms of government failure one comes to act on the hypo. Mr Kogler will try to do so in detail if there is no acceptance of the government parties as far as voluntaryness is concerned. Of course, there is the question of where the failure of supervision has taken place as to which documents this has taken place. You will of course also get these files on this lever. But in principle, the hypo is certainly neither an authority nor an organ, which was relatively simple to understand. The exercise we now have is: How do we find a solution that, for the areas where there is no claim, we find a procedure with which we still approach and say that it would actually be useful if they were to deliver? – Mr Krainer does not show No, but nods rather agreeing. This is also heard from the ÖVP. This is actually the task we have now. But there is a need to distinguish clearly between what is the basis of the legislation. That is why we voted in favour of this request. By the way, the nine sides and the one side do not differ so strongly, because even at the nine sides, which should be delivered in particular. Would you have... [[Abg. Hable:... the distinguishing!]] What's different? [[Abg. Hable: The headlines!]] Yes, of course! That's why we have to deliver there anyway. We have the right to request additional documents which are not delivered at any time. I cannot fully understand this argument. And to say it openly: Of course, a number of things have come into the proposal, because NEOS have also called for this. We said we wrote it in, but it was clear from the beginning that it would not be enforceable on a legal basis. The question of “in particular” can be discussed: whether it is possible to list “in particular” for so long and then not to get all other things, or to say the same, one makes it more comprehensive and then proceeds. This is a question of taste, even with it you will be able to live. But actually, it would be the sensible way to say now – and that's what we're trying to do, maybe coming. They then reenter into the series of opposition, or those who operate it –: Let us try to find a solution with the government groups, as in the past, as in the past, as the Committee finds a way to find files that are voluntarily delivered. I'm good things that will work. That will be the next step. The Committee will, I am confident, take such decisions, but not at the level where the legal level is inside. It must also be clear that the requirement to the hypo cannot be a mandatory template. This cannot be decided by the Committee. We cannot enforce this either at the Constitutional Court. That is why we certainly do not do this with something to go to the Constitutional Court, where it is obvious that one will lose this challenge and thus the process will be delayed! This is the next point: It would have taken the same time until the decision was taken so that we could start. That doesn't make sense. But, next step: Discussions with the government parties to see, to get unanimity – that would be the strongest – that voluntary files should be requested by the President to comply with the Committee's request for these decisions, and that request should be made to the bodies. Then will be delivered as in the past. So, in summary, I still see the Committee on the right track. In the initial phase, it was well managed to maintain this constructive level. Whether you will have to bring legal proceedings at some point in time, we will see, that is not excluded. [[Abg. Hable:... legal question!]] But now to put that at the beginning of how you and the NEOS do it, I can only rank as a political game, but not really as an attempt to get in the way here.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e23660	The next item is the speech by Mr Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e23682	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! The hypo investigation committee is set up, that's a good thing. We can quote from the government parties what I said: I have repeatedly said that there are five good reasons – a year ago – for not making an investigation committee: because the new Rules of Procedure have to come because the daughters in Eastern Europe have to be sold et cetera. Not all five conditions have occurred, but I think four of them. Therefore, from our point of view, it was always clear that there must be an investigation committee, the question was only at what rules and at what time. - I just wanted to say that at the beginning. We Socialists are ready, we look forward to this committee of inquiry. We are colleagues and colleagues Karin Greiner, Philip Kucher, Hermann Kristis, Max Unterrainer, Daniela Holzinger, Michael Ehmann, Christoph Matznetter, Klaus Uwe Feichtinger, Hermann Lipitsch and I. We are ready for this activity. We're not going in there with a pre-condemnification. We could now, as unfortunately some speakers before me, of course also list what the result will be, who has failed where. Instead, we try to go there very unbiasedly and simply because of the file situation that we will all have before us for the first time, and because of the information people to take a picture. Of course, we do not want to clarify a legal responsibility here, because we are not responsible for it – there are courts for it, there are prosecutors – but we are dealing, on the one hand, with political responsibility and, of course, with structural errors, with system errors. That means: How does the supervision work? Do we have to change the supervision? – That means what we've done here and also done is: We set up financial market supervision, regardless of the majority of the conditions here in the house, then saw in the committee of inquiry 2007, because there are weaknesses – I think all parties saw that at the time – and half a quarter of a year later the supervisory reform was decided here. I think we've made the supervision better. Now we can look at ourselves, also in practice: How does supervision work today? Where is there any need for improvement? This is actually the core task of the Committee of Inquiry, also for us as legislation: Where do we need to become active in order to prevent such a thing as the hypo a second time? I do not think that the hypo could arise again today, for purely political reasons. But, of course, we also need to see if there are legal steps we need to take in order to prevent such a thing. I think that no one here in this room thinks it would be particularly great to have another hypo disaster or something similar to the hypo. The third thing I wanted to say concerns what has happened in the past to disputes between political groups within the framework of committee of inquiry, such as: Which files need to be delivered? Which persons have to come? When is the end of the investigation committee? – These disputes can no longer exist, because these questions have already been resolved on and on their own. Everyone knows how long it takes, namely 12 months, and possibly a minority can say, 15 months. [[Abg. Lightenecker: Or 18 months!]] That means, everyone knows, in 15 months it's over. There is no discussion either. The second question is: There is a minority right to load people here. That is, one must also say that the entire committee of inquiry is under a new motto, according to Wolfgang Ambros: “A jeda gheat zu ana minority”. There are at least three minorities here. The SPÖ is a minority with five representatives in the Committee of Inquiry; the ÖVP is a minority with five members in the Committee of Inquiry; and there is still a third minority, that is FPÖ plus one of the other parties. These are the three minorities that exist. This can be FPÖ/green or any other combination. These are the three minorities. There's almost nothing you need a majority. As always, we need consensus in the house when we meet, how long do we meet et cetera, but that is nothing new in Parliament. Every meeting must be in consensus, every agenda must be in consensus. But there are no or de facto hardly any majority decisions. One of the few majority decisions that has now been taken was that basic decision. I think Mr Brosz has already made this quite clear: The task is to name the offices and authorities – that is the task of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure – which are in a context. You can of course make fun of it now: Why is the Ministry of Health there? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wenninger.]] There were three or four Federal Ministries in it; we do not know: Is there a fifth or a sixth? – That is why we said: Let's just write all of them in accordance with the Federal Ministry Act! We don't know if the Ministry of Economic Affairs has files, if the Ministry of the Interior has any, we don't know. We know that the BMF certainly has which – the Finance Minister is already here – it certainly also has the Federal Chancellery. But we don't know if the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or anyone else has any. We don't know, that's why we said: Let's just write everyone in! It is not the duty of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure to appoint or request others who do not have to deliver, but there are the instruments that the minority – i.e. any of the three minorities I listed earlier – can request files: directly and indirectly. This is regulated in the Federal Constitution and in the Rules of Procedure. We will not have to argue about this at all, but it has all the instruments it needs to come to all the files and documents and to be able to present to all the people it considers necessary. In so doing, I hope that there can be no more disputes on these issues, because anyway each of these three minorities can do everything it thinks is right – of course, within the framework of the laws. But the possibilities, the instruments have all. One last question is: What can the Committee of Inquiry do? – That is where I think the question of whether he is contributing, whether he can provide arguments for an insolvency solution or the like, is absurd. We are a political house, we can give political arguments. On the one hand, we can give political arguments – they only do not play a role, but they can only deal with legal arguments on the question of how I deal with creditors, and not with political ones. The only thing we can do is, of course, to put legal tools in hand, because we are just making laws here. But we have already done this, I think, because last year we have considerably expanded the instruments, as the executive can handle problem banks, insolvency law and the like. That is why, I believe, we have done our work. What the investigative committee can and must do concerns political responsibility and issues such as: If there are structural weaknesses, are there any legal weaknesses in this country? – Then we find these, draw the conclusions from them, and change according to the laws if it proves necessary. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e23741	No one is reporting on this. The Hypo-Research Committee is, as has been said, set up. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. [[18:12:01]] 14. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (458 e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Act, with which the Federal Act on the Reorganisation of the Legal Relations of the Austrian Industrial Holding Aktiengesellschaft and the Post and Tele a change to the German law on measures to ensure the stability of the financial market (FinnStaG Financial Market Stability Act) (ÖBIB Act 2015) (485 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e23787	We come to the 14th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. I welcome Mr. Federal Minister Dr. Schelling. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e23817	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! The agenda item is the conversion of the ÖIAG into the ÖBIB GesmbH, announced by the government as a strategic reorientation of federal participations and coordination within the framework of an overall concept. I'm sorry to tell you, I don't see anything about that. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] I see a compromise solution on the smallest common denominator to which the government is obviously able. In that case, this is a departure from the depoliticization initiated, back to a complete politicalization, only through the transformation of a stock company into a limited liability company. The Supervisory Board is abandoned. The role of the Supervisory Board is twofold, namely the control of the Executive Board and, on the other hand, what few know: also equally important – the participation with expertise in the strategic development of the company. That's not what you're going to do. The GesmbH also offers the possibility of direct access to the management through the law, i.e. direct interference in the day-to-day business. This has little to do with strategic overall approach. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There are also no criteria for the quality of management. However, one can say that it does not really need it, because the managing director, who is allowed to call himself “general secretary” here – and there we are again in Austria – is anyway purely the commander of the command, if you consider § 6 para. 2 of the draft. Good from our point of view is basically the new option to acquire the option to also share in addition. It is not all right from our point of view that the transfer of participations to the ÖBIB can now also be done through a purely federal decision and not through federal law as before. That is, the whole process goes past Parliament. The core of this new law – and there we are again the smallest common denominator – is the Nomination Committee, proportionally red-black occupied with Steßl, Geyer, Mahrer, Leitner. The exclusive task is to distribute posts, numerous Supervisory Board posts for friends. We do not understand this by a strategic reorientation, which should go in the direction of universal care, critical infrastructure. We miss a clear strategic line here: What can't be silvered from the state's point of view? There is something similar in the field of energy, the connection. We miss this in the area of road, post office, telecommunications, rail transport, airspace surveillance and soil and soil. There would have been a nice one here. This is an opportunity. All of this has not been brought together, because of course one would also have to talk about including companies such as the ÖBB-Holding, the ASFINAG, the Austro Control, allied and federal forests in this roof. This government is far away from that. That means there's nothing to see from strategy. Unfortunately, in turn, it is a step backwards into a complete politicalisation through transformation into a GesmbH and thus the possibility of direct access of politics to business.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e23884	Mr Haubner is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e23906	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Yes, we decide today to amend the ÖIAG Act. If you look back at the ÖIAG, you can say that this has been a very successful story in recent years and decades. [[Abg. Lightenecker: Well, the last years?]] Since 2000, we have generated more than €6.2 billion of privatisation proceeds for the federal government. Overall, the ÖIAG managed exactly 24 successful privatisation transactions in the years 2000 to 2009. It can be said that the Vienna Stock Exchange and, of course, the Austrian capital market have benefited massively. Looking at the last decade, the years 2000 to 2010, there has been a wave of privatisation across Europe, because governments have recognized that the state is not necessarily an economically successful entrepreneur, but that it is better to exercise certain functions elsewhere. As a rule, the efficiency of a company increases after partial or full privatisation. We have successful examples in Austria with the Voest or also with the OMV. When I look at voestalpine, today it is a global technology and industrial goods company with around 46,000 employees, making sales of 11.5 billion and having a stock exchange capitalization of 6.1 billion euros. If you look at this – formerly the Voest was a grant company from the state, today it is a successful business, then you can say that this decision by ÖIAG to carry out the privatisations here was a successful way and the decisions were correct. Even if you look at the post today, it is certainly more successful than before 2006. Today, the company stands better than ever before and consistently produces high dividends for its shareholders every year. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we are now finding ourselves on this path in a restructuring. The Minister of Finance – and I can assure you, Mr Kassinger – has already shown in his private life that he is not dependent on politics. He will not force the police here either, but as you know him, he will go the successful way here. That's where he's a guarantee. The other thing I want to say is: Mr Geyer and Mr Leitner are both very recognized and successful personalities from the economy. So I think that's in the best hands here, too. What we expect from the economy here is an active participation management by the owner, combined with an increase in the value of our significant investments in the interest of the economic location. - That's the first one. The second is the perception of the interests of Austria by maintaining headquarters in our country and, therefore, the protection and creation of jobs. The third party is safe – and this is not surprising for the Economic Federation – further useful privatisations in the existing participations and an offensive strategy on new privatisations. These three points provide an attraction for our location and create the opportunity to innovate, as innovation takes place where headquarters are. It's very important: If these headquarters remain, then the small and medium-sized enterprises will benefit, because we know that the large companies are working together with many thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises. They all have a little bit of it. The new ÖIAG must now bring new opportunities for new ideas and for the future of our business location. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e23942	Mrs Lichtenecker is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e23964	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, Mr President, it was not only successful privatisations, but also family silver. I am thinking only of Austria's tobacco with the result that a successful company, which has brought excellent values to the Republic and has secured numerous jobs in Austria, has gone down and thus lost jobs in Austria. The story is not supposed to be beautiful in this respect. Nevertheless, ÖIAG has played an important role in Austria's decades of industrial history. There were permanent changes. It was always a mirror of the economy, the change of history, a mirror of political conditions. Of course, it has played an important role in the course of the privatisations; as we have already heard, not only boastful. Nevertheless, it was time to make further changes, and a major reason for this was, of course, that there was a Supervisory Board structure that was absurd in this form. Renewing yourself cannot be a solution. Of course, the owner and thus the Republic of Austria must be able to exercise the interests accordingly. That was the starting point of a very strong, lively debate, so I would mention it once, with the great disadvantage for the listed companies, which have also been torn into a light in permanence, which, as we have seen at the end of the OMV, has simply disadvantages, and that must be done. This has also been a central requirement of us, and the current situation that there is no longer a Supervisory Board, no one renewing himself, but in our opinion is not the last conclusion of wisdom, on the contrary. We therefore believe that this construction in this form, as it is to be decided today, is very inadequate. It makes a bit the impression that the government was aware of it, we need to change something there. It is part of the government programme. It was about strategic orientation. But finally, what's left? It's a little bit like when you say, well, we're going to the big glockner, 3 800 m that's in front of us, and then we're hanging somewhere at the beginning, because you're going up the bus and coming back to the Lucknerhaus and making the jause distribution straight away, and then it's no longer going on. One forgets that it is actually another 1,900 meters of altitude that can be handled. Only, that was no longer done in this form. We therefore believe that it is urgently necessary to make appropriate changes here. That is why I put in place a motion for a resolution to which I would like to make a brief statement, where we believe there should be amendments. Well, we've already heard, the nomination committee is red and black, so to speak. They are supposed to take care of how future supervisory positions are to be sent and occupied. There is no transparent procedure, a requirement catalogue for future Supervisory Boards in the bodies. - That's the first one. There is no cooling-off phase for politicians, for officials, for the Supervisory Board positions. I can remember, Minister, that you were one who also represented this. I don't know where it's left on the track, now there's no such thing as this. You must not forget that the participations of the Republic of Austria in central companies are managed here, and thus the Austrian citizens have the right to receive information. But there is no reporting obligation here in the House, here in Parliament. That's something we demand. And that won't be the last time, ladies and gentlemen. I believe that all of you, as representatives of the people, should also be involved in this. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Furthermore, there is indeed a strategic orientation – objectives, tasks, implementation plans: What do we want to do for participation in companies that make sense in different areas? These are points that we are missing, ladies and gentlemen. We would like to suggest that you support our request today, otherwise it will certainly be a point for us to work on in the next few months to achieve improvements in terms of transparency and control.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e24047	I announce that the motion for a resolution by Dr Lichtenecker, colleagues on comprehensive reform of the administration of federal holdings, which has just been presented in his key points, has also been submitted in writing, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. In view of the extent of the application, I leave it in accordance with § 53 para. Copy and distribute 4 of the Rules of Procedure. In addition, this request will also be accompanied by the Stenographical Protocol. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e24167	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Vogl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e24191	Mr President. Yes, we hope today to adopt the new ÖBIB law, and with that the government will again assume responsibility for the companies that are owned by the current ÖIAG and now in the field of the ÖBIB. It is also important for such a thing, I believe, that one divides the responsibilities and the controls. In this sense, the Minister of Finance, in his role as Chairman of the General Assembly, assumes the operational direction, appoints the Managing Director, who in the future is called Secretary-General and who, as has already been correctly mentioned, is bound by direction. It is important – we have seen this in the past – to create clear framework conditions that allow for operational activity on the one hand when it comes to taking part in capital increases. On the other hand, however, it is important that there is a leadership and a political mission here, it has just been addressed what should happen to these companies. That is why it is also important that there is a division of competences here, so to speak. – There is this division. That is, as the owner of the Finance Minister, the Federal Government works as a control. It may give approval to the managing director, have to approve the acquisition of further shares, have to authorise the acquisition of other companies, have to give a reduction or privatisation order, if it goes below 25 percent and generally give a privatisation order as a whole. It is also important that, on the one hand, we have a managing director as the Secretary-General who is operational in this business, on the other hand, we have the nomination committee, which is sent by the Federal Government. It is not true that there are no criteria. There are very strict criteria for those sitting in there, even this cooling-off phase, and there are very clear criteria for sending the Supervisory Boards. There is this corporate governance code, which we have also formulated as part of this law in the present version, and we are ensuring that no longer arbitrarily decides who comes into supervisory positions, but that there are rules. We have also said that the Committee on Standardisation should give itself further stricter rules. From this point of view, I think, it is a very good law, which allows the government to influence the property of the Austrian state again. Where I am at colleague Lichtenecker: I also did not like the answer in the Committee concerning reporting obligations to Parliament. There are very clear reporting obligations of the Managing Director to the General Assembly every quarter of the year and subsequently by the Finance Ministers to the Federal Government. To say that we can ask questions if we need information, that's a little too little for me. I would like to have a reasonable report on Parliament as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e24225	Mrs Nachbaur. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e24249	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Colleagues in the House and dear taxpayers! I would like to focus briefly on the general budget situation in Austria, and then I would like to focus on the new ÖBIB. Our country's debt has more than doubled since 2000. They grow twice as fast as our country's economic performance. The debt and liability in the countries and communities are usually exploded. And there is little surprising growth in the budget deficit, not least because of the sad economic situation, which is a good thing. People's purchasing power has been falling continuously for seven years, mainly because of state fees, while the Germans, for example, are experiencing a strong real wage increase because Germany is allowing its citizens to participate in economic growth. According to the new gloomy WIFO prognosis, the next savings package would have to be tied up, and yet it is always expected that a tax reform will come to the fore, which will bring real relief to people – this is also urgently necessary, because the eaty state is taking away the Austrian citizens more and more, and for decades none of the two former major parties have been ready to take away their own well-kept clientele even one euro or even to save themselves. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Not only as an opposition politician, but also as an economically-thinking person, you wonder how this planned discharge should be financed, if not by a whole, very large throw in structural reforms. After all, about two billion euros are missing to achieve the structural zero deficit in 2016. I quote today for the second time from the “standard”, precisely because I like that in this case he is absolutely not suspected of being a particularly liberal economic leaf. Andreas Schnauder writes: "In the face of the tight budgetary corset through the also nationally implemented Fiscal Pact, the government is swimming its skins. The fear of attacking large structural chunks is now revenged, because there is no room for tax reduction.” – Except, of course, one has the courage to address the really major structural problems, namely federalism reform, pension reform, health reform, administrative reform! But I am not very confident because the government parties are primarily concerned with their own preservation of power and with clientele policy. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The best example: the new ÖBIB. Of course, it is a matter of course that the owner also wants to influence his participation, but one has to question: ==References== Also a matter of course, that the Republic of Austria holds shares in a company that sends letters, holds shares in a company that sells petrol or telephones? And if one can already justify this with strategic interests, what more then than the blocking minority, and what for Heaven's sake the task of bringing other companies into state ownership? – Can no longer remember the crisis of the nationalized industry in the 1980s, where the state has made a megapleite to the taxpayers? [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] At the time, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democracy, Mr Lacina became at least an opponent of state-owned corporate participation in the short term. The State is usually a bad owner and certainly a bad manager. That's why the renaissance of the propor. There must not be a renaissance of the proportion in post positions! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] It is also interesting that government politicians once again distinguish between the normal people and certain privileged groups. Normal directors in the economy have to observe a two-year cooling phase if you change from the Supervisory Board to the Supervisory Board, while representatives of the social partners do not of course want these rules to apply. It should not be surprising that people are becoming more and more politically voracious if there are always extra sausages for certain privileged groups. There must be no extra sausage! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The nationalized and this whole crisis, that was before my time, but I just had a joke from that time told myself, and at that time, every post had to be occupied three times, by a red one, by a black one and by one who did the work. Let us hope that this time this will not be the case, but I would rather, and probably most taxpayers in this country, that the state will create reasonable framework conditions for the economy, so that private jobs can be created so that prosperity is created, and not that it will be redistributed until nothing is redistributed. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The state should focus better on its core tasks, such as the production and maintenance of internal and external security that really concerns people, or the creation of a slim and reliable rule of law, in which legal certainty is real. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rossmann.]] But the state should not try as an economic captain. This has never been proved to work, and the state in that case is not even the citizens, but the red and the black party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e24374	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e24395	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been mentioned in the remarks that the ÖIAG has played a very important role in the past, but from my point of view, reforms are still necessary. As we know, the ÖIAG is involved in several industrial enterprises. Only in the three listed companies OMV, Telekom and Post are 66 000 employees and the turnover of these companies is €49 billion. Now, however, there is a divisive situation. The Minister of Finance has a political responsibility for the ÖIAG and consequently, in a further follow-up to the participations, but the Minister of Finance does not have a real influence on the strategic orientation of the companies. Entrepreneurship decisions shall be taken by the Supervisory Boards only by the Boards or strategic orientation. It is therefore quite understandable that the Minister of Finance, as a representative of the Republic, also wants to make strategic requirements as owners, if he also has to bear the political responsibility for them. Therefore, we want a strategic reorientation, including the transformation of the ÖIAG into society law. From the eastern part of the country Austrian Bundes- und Industriebehörten GmbH is to become the Austrian Industrieholding AG. The ÖIAG is the source of the ÖBIB. In future, the ÖBIB's strategic decisions will be owned by the Minister of Finance. A decision by the Federal Government should also be required on essential issues. Second goal of the bill is a rapidly enforceable, economical and slim new organisation for holding. The new company is to be managed by a managing director and no longer to have a Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Boards of the Federal Government’s holdings located in the ÖBIB will select and appoint a new nomination committee. The Committee should be set up as an advisory board of the ÖBIB. Two members of the Nomination Committee must be in office in the appointment as Minister of State or Minister of State, and two independent experts will be present. This law therefore concerns the creation of a economical, slim and efficient form of organisation for participation management with the aim of effectively and professionally implementing the strategic ownership decisions in the interest of all Austrian taxpayers. This draft law also serves the economic and research location and contributes to the protection and creation of jobs in Austria. Therefore, there is an agreement to this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e24444	Next speaker: Mr Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e24465	Mr President. Mr. Finanzminister! I should like to comment on Mr Haubner's comments: The two government parties are really celebrating this new development or this new legislative proposal and the re-establishment. In reality, it's a dance on the pile. What do you expect from us? Should we congratulate you on that? Should we congratulate you for not following the proposal of your consultant Zimmermann, tossing him from the bedside after two days, so to speak, and being brought out with the Khol's nose ring? This cool-off phase, it's held exactly two days. What's gotten out of it now? – Nothing has become out of it. Should we congratulate you for making a real comeback of a repoliticization? What do the citizens think of you if you nominate two State Secretarys and install them again two party advisers? What look does that have? How transparent is that? – This is insanely intrusive. Imagine you're a businessman and not an outlaw! Imagine that we would jointly upgrade the ÖIAG, we would jointly design a sustainable concept for all Austrian participations! Imagine that we would really revitalize this location! More private, less state! Imagine that with these proceeds we would finance research and education and repay some of our public debt! That would be the big picture. [[Congratulations with NEOS and Team Stronach as well as the Abg. Lightenecker.]] Imagine that we would set up a reasonable organisation in this ÖBIB: one for Earth-resistant infrastructure, one for mobility and transport efficiency, one for energy and communication, and one for the organization of education and training. That would be a reasonable construction. Unfortunately, you lack the big picture here. They also lack the strategy. You've tried to repair, but you're still dancing on a sniper pile, on the one you've caused yourself. I can therefore conclude by saying: We'll go with Ruperta Lichtenecker's request. We think it is a reasonable approach to think the more sustainable, to think in general, and not just until the next election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e24513	Mr Schelling spoke on a point of view. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e24535	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! You can now look back again on the reasons why you have made the decision to make a new law. I think, in agreement with all the political groups, it was clear that this self-renewing Supervisory Board is not what we imagine as representing the property of the Austrians. [[Abg. Lightenecker: That's right!]] Now you can discuss what path you can take. However, I would like to return to a few comments – one was the question of realignment, I come back to it – some have already been addressed, for example, that it is possible in the future to bring about changes in the structure that were not yet possible. So far, we needed a legal basis in every decision. Today, we are able to say that purchases are also possible with certain strategic participations. That has not been the case so far. If one considers that the law also states that, at the request of the appropriate ministers of expertise, the infrastructure measures required by you, Mr Schellhorn, are still possible by law, we have kept the door open to a greater solution in the future. It is crucial, however, that we do not want to have in the future the conditions we all criticized, and circumstances that were given and which we publicly criticised. As regards the interference in the day-to-day business: Yes, Mr. Finanzminister may interfere in the ÖBIB, but Mr. Finanzminister or Mrs. Finanzminister – whoever will be in the future – does not have the opportunity to intervene in the participations, as there is only a share right. We have no longer allowed the Secretary-General of the ÖBIB to be directly Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Participations, in order to counter these considerations that direct political influence is taking place here. There we want to have the best heads for the property of the Austrians, and this nomination committee is intended to ensure that. There are quite clear criteria for the appointment of these Supervisory Boards. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lightenecker.]] Yes, they are, they are also in the Rules of Procedure. That's all done, Mrs. Lichtenecker, I'd like to give it to you. [[Abg. Lightenecker: We already have them!]] It is quite clear what criteria should be applied to become Supervisory Board members in these investments. However, I would also like to say that the final decision on the appointment of Supervisory Boards falls in the Annual General Meetings of Shareholders and not elsewhere; there it falls. The point behind it is that we only have a majority in one of the three participation cases. At the post we have a majority, in the area of Telekom and OMV we are bound by syndicate contracts. It is therefore not the case that we can decide on our own. That's a wishful thought of some. It's not like that. Of course, we have to comply with the syndicate agreements. What the Cooling-off phase is about, ladies and gentlemen: It's for me. After leaving the office as Minister, I could not take over a supervisory function or a management function without a two-year Cooling-off phase. It's for the politicians. It's just like that inside. Even if I have the qualification, even if I have a supervisory board experience, even if I have run a large company – these are the same criteria that stand in it – it would not be possible for me to do so. I think it's right to say that very clearly. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schellhorn.]] – I think that’s right, so it’s our job to find the best minds. The strategic orientation has reached: We are now in a process that reorganises this strategic orientation. We currently have three participations, which we need to manage properly and ensure that supervisory councils can take appropriate decisions. Then there are also the possibilities of variants already set out in the law that we use the new society as a privatisation agency for non-participation. We also have many participations of the state that are not located in the ÖBIB – from the Großglockner Hochalpenstraße to the Student Home in Innsbruck. Here too, we have created this possibility. The question was raised, which criteria are now being applied. It is clear that the selection criteria for supervisory councils in the participating company are as follows: generally recognised benefits as entrepreneurs, members of the professions, managers of the economy or the public sector, persons with multi-annual experience in management bodies or as members of the supervisory board of a company. The strict criteria for independence and incompatibility within the meaning of the Austrian Corporate Governance Code are to be observed, as well as a two-year cooling-off phase – not for all but for me anyway. We have also made it clear that the appointment of the Nomination Committee must also be made in this way, and these criteria apply here too. I think with the nomination of two renowned personalities from Austria, we have succeeded in the first step I have promised: We want the best minds to make these selection criteria. I am confident that will succeed. But I also believe that there is no company around the world in which, as in the past in the ÖIAG old, the owner has no influence on his own property except in the Annual General Meeting. Therefore, it was ensured that we have this possibility here again, with the new law that is the case. This development, which can then happen in the ÖBIB, has been shown, the doors are open, and therefore I believe that this was a real and important step to return, not to a pro-porz system you suspect, but to a system where the best minds are used for the property of the Austrians. That's what I'm standing for. I'll do everything I can to make it work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e24601	I call Mr Katzian. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e24622	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Today is a good day for Austria because we end the decision-making on the ÖBIB with the things that in the past many of us or, I would say, most of them did not like in the context of the ÖIAG. In particular, I am pleased that it has succeeded in getting away with the so-called self-renewing Supervisory Board. It also ensures that what some have obviously done in recent years, namely to consider the ÖIAG as a self-service shop, is finally pushed forward a bar. I think that's important, and you have to find out. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] All those who have now expressed the great fears, the whole thing goes towards a politicalization, I can only ask: Look How this so-called depoliticized Supervisory Board has acted in recent years! Actually, Satan's coming out has been privatized. The economic location of Austria has been damaged several times. Now you can go through all the privatizations individually, but I'll leave it. Austria's tobacco has already been mentioned. That's a joke. It has been ruined by state ownership, jobs have been destroyed. I can't. We're putting a bar on this one, and that's good, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I think it is also important that the owner, the Republic of Austria, takes responsibility and now nominates the Supervisory Board. I have to ask a question to all those who are now lamenting that Proporz is being recruited: Does anyone seriously believe that Mr. Leitner of Andritz and Günter Geyer are some sausages to which you can say: Take this unqualified or the unqualified? – I hope no one will believe that. These are serious, experienced people from the economy, and therefore it is perfectly clear to me that this is a shot in the air. I also connect with the ÖBIB the great hope that we can finally increase the proportion of women in the supervisory councils. I very much hope not only that the privatisation will end, but also that the possibility will be used, where it makes sense, where it is strategic for the economic location to enter into new participations and take in new companies. I mean, there is now a requirement for this, namely a democratically legitimate structure. It is now about the responsibility of more than 66 000 employees in each company. I am very glad that this important step has been taken.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e24674	I call Mr Themessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e24696	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The aim of the government is a strategic reorientation of the ÖIAG. That sounds good, and I support it right away. Mr. Federal Minister, the fact is that ÖIAG has been managing only three holdings of stock exchange-oriented companies for years. For years now I am either filling or dissolving the ÖIAG with life. This was the last time that Kemler was ordered in autumn 2012, and there are press reports in the press, in the “standard” or elsewhere. You can read it. I've been saying for years that something has to happen to the ÖIAG. Now I'm coming to you, Minister of State. I know that you are the only member of the government who has also been very successful in the private sector. Now the government is calling for a strategic reorientation of this company – that is all right. But where does the strategy paper remain? – You know very well, in the private sector, if you turn a stock company into a GesmbH, you don’t do that on condition that you then think about what this GesmbH is supposed to do – but that’s exactly what you’re doing here! Mr. Federal Minister, I don't understand. You know very well, in the private sector, before you create a new company, there is a strategy paper with clear objectives, with clear directions, with clear visions, what should happen to it. There's no such thing as that. If you have it, I wonder why you didn't distribute it. We don't have it. I also do not know anyone in the other opposition parties who has received a strategy paper that shows where to go. Under this impression, Mr Federal Minister, you simply cannot spare the accusation that it is at the moment only a matter of shutting down parliamentary control – that is why we will also agree with the Greens' request for at least a report – and, above all, to put it under full party political influence again. That's the only goal you've got right now. If You have a clear strategy where the company is to develop, which goals you pursue, which visions you pursue, then tell us! Let's get the strategy paper, and then you can talk to us about it! What you are doing now is a purely party-political matter where red and black again determine post-contracting in that state.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e24738	Next speaker: Mr Ing. May. Big. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e24759	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Today we are discussing the ÖBIB 2015. This is a discussion or decision on the question: More private or more state? The debate is as old as democracy. [[Abg. Lightenecker: Do you really think that the discussion is about state or private?]] - Yes, I do. The discussion goes in the direction, because I believe that the era of state enterprises is actually over, the times when one has privatized, just for the sake of privatisation, as well. [[Abg. Lightenecker: There's nothing left!]] That's not how I see it. I do not understand the discussion of the opposition. We had a deadline request half a year ago, where the Minister, the government has been asked to make a change within a short time, so that the Supervisory Board is to be ordered differently. The government is now doing something reasonable by acting here in a timely manner, now that the supervisory councils are being re-appointed in the daughters. The state is still a major entrepreneur with us. As we have heard from the Committee on Budgets, I believe that 119 federal units, which are largely 100% in our possession, have a large number of them as well as state companies and municipal companies. These societies are very different. Some are in the capital market, some have a supply function, some are market enterprises. Now the question is: What do we do with this ÖBIB law? . We are creating exactly this political requirement that we have jointly created here in the House. We want to influence our property again. How can one gain influence? – This is democratically legitimised only by giving people from the government the right to participate. There one tries to implement this objectively as much as possible at the supervisory councils. Another important point, however, is that the dividing line must be set in the capital market. If we are discussing, in advance, whether we want to buy a company, whether we want to sell one, then we have to bear in mind that the very market-setting influence has on the exchanges. We'd all be doing insider trading here. It is important that we have the immunity that we are outside here accordingly. Therefore, the legal form of the GmbH is also a good construction. We, as Parliament, are able to exercise control afterwards, but in the past we are not involved in direct decisions in order not to create any market-setting influences here. We create the possibility that holding improved shares that follow-up is possible. We also create the possibility that other participations can be transferred to these ÖIAGs, where synergies are, and where they are possible and make sense. We also create opportunities to use the know-how, which is still present here or needs to be created first, for direct privatisations. There is also this possibility on the national side. This law is a gap between the necessary state control and the necessary private law conditions that must be in order not to distort the market. That's what we wanted. That is, I think, also what all the parties here, half a year ago, up to the Stronach team, that was not that opinion, have been so debated. We hope that, as a result, there will be broad support for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e24809	Mrs Mag. Greiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e24831	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! High house! What is the crucial question of principle in relation to the ÖIAG? It reads: Should policy control or leave everything to the free market? I think we agree to a large extent, that there is no way of leaving it to the unbridled profit-making effort. Think of numerous discussions on the privatisation of water, infrastructure and educational institutions! There are enough international examples of unsuccessful privatisations, such as the privatisation of railway lines in Great Britain, the New Zealand railway lines, which have led to serious losses for the states. The privatisation of water supply in France Portugal led to price increases of up to 400 percent. The educational institutions in Sweden are to be mentioned. We also know spectacular negative examples in this country, we have already heard: Austria Tobacco, BUWOG. The Causa BUWOG still deals with the courts today. Also mentioned: Deutsche Telekom. That's where the system failed completely. Lobbyists had free hand there. If politics wants to perceive its scope for action, then this new construction, which we decide today, is a good opportunity to act successfully. A forward-looking economic policy and industrial policy is required. With what goal? – The aim is to secure Austria’s economic location, to further develop Austria’s research site, to create and secure jobs. This is a responsible economic policy in the sense of a responsibility towards the population. However, this responsibility can only be assumed if the substance is present. That means that further sales are not meaningful. By the way: It's probably better – Tag Post AG – to get a reliable dividend than to look forward to a unique sales revenue. What's new about the ÖBIB? – The so-called self-renewal of the Supervisory Board has found an end. This self-renewal was a mistake: expensive, opaque and far from democratic structures. My summaries, ladies and gentlemen: The ÖIAG has been anything but a success story since 2000. But what do I expect from the newly regulated ÖBIB? – I expect a new age in the management and supervision of state participations. I expect an approach that is objective, professional, transparent, in the interest of taxpayers and is free from corruption. SPÖ has been tirelessly committed to recasting this society, and today's decision will enable the ÖBIB to provide modern and stable structures in order to work successfully at Austria's economic location. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e24886	Mr Schultes is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e24907	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen in the House! This debate is about the redesign of our federal ownership administration in some of the areas under which the Minister for Finance is subject. This is a historic day, because we are discussing the concept of property, we are discussing the concept of responsibility and we are discussing how, in common responsibility, we are dealing with the fact that we want to shape the future for 66 000 employees. [[President Bures takes over the presidency again.]] However, it is not only a question of shaping the future for employees, for people in the profession, but also of strategic alignment of this property. And it is about finally giving this strategic direction a political will. Political will has nothing to do with party politics, but with leadership in this country, and the question where we want to stand in the future, where we want to set our economic priorities in the future. In recent years, we have had a self-renewaling Supervisory Board and companies that were left to themselves. It was almost always the case that the participating co-owners were the stronger partners and the Austrian position de facto was only washed along. [[Intrusion of the Abg. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] This cannot be explained otherwise, if you look at this path of the OMV, what it has experienced in recent years and what unnecessary high gas prices we have paid for, because no one has really negotiated hard with the Russians. Oil price fixing was only abolished a few days ago. – This shows us that this non-exact view costs us all real money and has implications. I am therefore very glad that this obscene system of the OMC discussion on the media last summer has given us the impetus to finally take the courage to make these decisions that are being made today. And I assume we all know: Property is responsible, property is mandatory, property is right, property is also the possibility to design. And something else is property – of which I am firmly convinced –: Private property is for us the tribe, the beginning and, in fact, the root of our freedom. Property is important, also in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e24953	The next item is the speech by Mr Wimmer. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e24974	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Yes, the ÖIAG law will be history from today on. My colleague Katzian has already mentioned: That's good. Finally, there are good conditions for ensuring strategic ownership in Austria better than before. In recent years, there has been a lot of happening, but unfortunately a lot of negative things, and if I have heard a few examples of what good things would have happened here today, it looks a little different. In reality, it was given away, it was thrown away and it was done, ladies and gentlemen, very much appreciated. [[Abg. Obernoster: Well, well, well!]] A bar is now being pushed forward to him. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Donate to the keyword. – We remember the privatization of AUA 2009: 1 cent per share, 500 million € the Republic of Austria has shot; Privatisation of the Dorotheum 2001: 70 million € Sales price, 50 million € have actually remained – no good business, harsh criticism of the Court of Auditors. At Telekom, which has already been mentioned today, the industrial leadership has been handed down, it has even had to be paid € 290 million, and at the next capital increase this company will probably be exclusively Mexican, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Now let's get to the bottom of it. – The Austrian tobacco has already been mentioned today. Yes, that was really crazy what happened! We received € 770 million; only five years the English buyers needed until this purchase price was refinanced. All locations in Austria have been closed. The Minister of Freedom, Grasser, said at the time that he could be shot at the knee if this privatisation were not successful for the Republic. – I have never heard the shot, ladies and gentlemen, but we have lost a thousand jobs. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now for the chance. – It is interesting what Mrs. Nachbaur said, and I have to go a little closer to it. Minerva – we forget a lot and often, but we never forgot that –: The old-fashioned Stronach wanted to tear the voest under the nail, colleagues and colleagues. [[Oh, call at the SPÖ.]] Don't pretend to have forgotten this today! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Obernosterer.]] Sigi Wolf, the current chairperson of the ÖIAG Supervisory Board, was already in the Supervisory Board at that time, of course “did not know” and was “fully uninvolved”. At the same time, he was also the head of Magna Europa, the head of the Group. – Thank God that was revealed by the media that thank God that did not go over the stage! [[Abg. Rainer! Rainer! Who got it, the voest?]] But this also has something good for Mrs. Rebauber: She probably wouldn't be in the high house today. If this deal had gone over the stage, she would probably be procurist in Linz or in Donawitz. So the outcome was also a happiness for Mrs. Rebauber. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is good and important that this crazy regulation of self-renewal of the Supervisory Board now falls. I do not want to threaten the current Supervisory Boards, but they would be well advised not to take action now until the new law enters into force, so that no more jobs are made. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I believe it is important that politics can finally take responsibility again. Estimated Minister Schelling, from our side an industrial fund, was addressed to a state fund. You didn't say no directly. . I think it would be good if we continue to hold this issue in discussion, because it is important that important companies in Austria are protected even better than before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e25056	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 485 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. [[Abg. Rädler: (in the direction of FPÖ members who do not vote) He has long passed, this FPÖ!]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: (in the direction of the Greens whose Members do not vote) The Greens have disappointed me!]] We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – The draft law is therefore also adopted by a majority in third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Lichtenecker, ladies and gentlemen, on a comprehensive reform of the management of federal holdings. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this motion for a resolution to give a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[19:09:29]] 15. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (374 D.B._Other Organiser Third Additional Protocol to the European Extradition Convention (462)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e25130	We're going to the 15th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Magistrate. Nice to meet you. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e25157	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the TV screens at home, ladies and gentlemen here in the hall! The third Additional Protocol to the European Extradition Convention aims in particular to simplify and speed up extradition procedures if the person sought agrees to the extradition. Of course, in the past there have already been measures at other levels to simplify the delivery of persons sought. An important step of this kind was, for example, the European Arrest Warrant, which entered into force in 2004. The European Arrest Warrant has made procedures for the transfer of persons concerned much faster and easier. The duration of the transfer procedures could thus be significantly reduced. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, an extension of these existing possibilities and further implementation of measures to simplify and shorten extradition procedures bring benefits to all parties involved. The subcontracting State shall benefit from a shorter period of evidence of the judicial institutions; the State requesting extradition shall benefit from rapid extradition of the other State. In future, in addition to the existing Austrian legislation in the Extradition and Legal Assistance Act, this Third Additional Protocol will allow the extradition to be granted with the consent of the extradition person already on the basis of a search request. In addition, the execution of the extradition procedure and the transfer of the requested person to the requesting State would be subject to short deadlines, which may also reduce the duration of such extradition. There are also substantial improvements due to the far greater scope of this third Additional Protocol by the large number of Contracting States. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that the Committee on Justice has ruled unanimously and that all parties will recommend to the National Council the approval of the conclusion of this Treaty. I believe and am convinced that this is a successful contribution to greater efficiency in the framework of European law enforcement, and thank you now for this unanimous agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e25198	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Mulder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e25219	Madam President. Minister! Let me add a few more arguments to my previous speaker. The present decision concerns a system that can help to make the work of the judicial system even more efficient. The claims in Austria to the rule of law are very high, so of course my group also welcomes any improvement in the area of legal bases, which, while safeguarding individual rights, promotes the most efficient handling of procedures. A judicial system, which meets the highest legal standards and at the same time also works economically, has tradition in Austria. The Council of Europe's Committee on the efficiency of justice is a very good witness in this regard to our Austrian judicial system. A study has been started among 45 countries, and we actually have very good values in international comparison. In Austria, disputed civil proceedings take only four months compared to the average of eight months. We are therefore well aware of these criteria, and it is now possible that this international extradition agreement is of very minor importance. The extradition with the European Arrest Warrant is actually about 200 cases per year; extraditions in countries outside the scope of the European Arrest Warrant are 100 more cases, and the delivery is around 30 cases per year. I call these numbers, so that we also have an impression of the dimension we are talking about. Two thirds of all extradition procedures are already being completed in the simplified procedure. This provision contributes to the rapid, unbureaucratic settlement of extraditions between States and helps to maintain the highest possible legal certainty in different international legal spheres. In this sense, we are very happy to put the provision into effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e25267	The next speaker was Mr Lausch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e25289	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! The third Additional Protocol to the European Extradition Convention will also be approved. That's a good thing, of course. It already exists, because this third additional protocol is, in principle, an addition, as the name already says. There's something like that. In the future, it will simplify and speed up the extradition process – and now it comes – when the person sought agrees to the extradition. In practice it looks so that unfortunately God does the least. So this is well meant, but of course, anyone who has committed a criminal act in another state and is sought if this state is seeking extradition and this person is detained in Austria – in Austria there is a relatively high standard and performance – will not necessarily agree to this extradition in – probably – home country or another country. But as I said, this is, of course, a real and important thing, and we will agree with it. But what would be even more important and welcome, if one were finally to do so from the government side, is the so-called punishment in the home country. This means: It must be if an EU citizen or in general a foreign citizen For example, it is sentenced to five years of imprisonment, which is not depriving the entire prison in Austria of Austrian tax money. There are contracts! There are also some, but there are not all, but only with relatively few states, such contracts that one can see that the criminal is brought back, returned to his home country after a third of the fined detention, and there the remaining imprisonment is fined. That would save a lot of tax money. A day of imprisonment in Austria already costs more than 100 €, which is expected. This may be quite interesting for you, Minister of State Schelling: At €100 per day, a 100% reduction in the number of foreigners detained in Austria would already bring a savings of €1.6 million per year. This would therefore be an absolutely useful thing, so we should, of course, try to enter into agreements with as many countries as possible, so that as many people in Austria will be penalised for the remainder of the punishment or for a large part of the remaining penalty in their home country. This would also have a social aspect because, of course, language barriers would disappear and family contacts could be re-established immediately. In this context, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] So if you here, I say, the Republic of Austria, want to help the State save taxes, save costs, do something good and also want to meet a major social aspect, please accept this resolution! He is an absolutely good thing that would go in the right direction, especially in times like this. As I said, every prisoner in Austria is already costing more than 100 €, so think about it! This motion for a resolution would certainly save some million euros of tax money a year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e25352	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e25416	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Vetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e25438	Madam President. Minister! High house! I would like to take this extradition agreement on the occasion of establishing the importance of extradition on the basis of two examples. We now have an annual recurring event, at the end of January each year, where a part of the extreme, violent left is calling into question the right of the dissidents to gather to dance and causing an encounter with the police on the street. In part, glass panes are broken here, this year car tires have also been cut up by taxis. If people from abroad come here to make so-called experience-oriented Krawall here, then this law, which we decide to do, is a good opportunity – if you then take action against these people in accordance with the relevant paragraphs – to help the judicial system break through. I agree with a previous speaker that, in most cases, I do not believe that there will actually be this agreement. However, let me take the opportunity to say that, after the government has practically no opinion on these incidents at all, I find it a bit strange that the result of the extreme left of the FPÖ is simple and simply an election aid, because the least Austrians are in the Hofburg or outside, but on the side of the police and pay the whole and really do not find it in order. There should also be appropriate opinions from the government. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team, as well as with representatives of the FPÖ.]] I take the second example, if we have the extradition tag here, that there are countries to which we do not supply, because we do not trust their legal system. One of them is a country whose family was a certain Mr Rakhat Aliyev, I have to say since yesterday that we have not been extradivided, but a criminal proceedings have been initiated in respect of which many lawyers have had some stomach pain. Mr. Aliyev wrote these two books. [[The speaker keeps books up to date.]] Since 2007, this has also been the case for the Austrian Parliament. In a way, the demonocles sword of violent death has always been the subject of this man. And yesterday it turned out that his life ended up with a supposed suicide. This is a chapter of Austrian legal history, which has certainly not been ended with it and which screams after Enlightenment. If we need to have the multi-faceted feeling here – and there is also a corresponding procedure – that is being tried from abroad to influence the Austrian judicial system or also the media landscape, then not only the judicial authorities are required, but the Austrian Parliament may also be called on to bring this matter to light. [[Abg. Steinhauser: Become a concrete one! What do you mean?]] I would like to give you the suggestion to think about whether there might be a need for work for Parliament in the context of a committee of inquiry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e25492	Next item is the report by Mr Dr. On. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e25514	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing today the European Extradition Agreement. Let me say in advance that it is a good example of cooperation in Europe. Let us take a look at the innovations that this extradition agreement will bring, in concrete terms, at the Third Additional Protocol. First of all, it is about speeding up the short deadlines, which will reduce the duration of extradition. That is to say, the prison periods of foreign citizens in Austria are reduced. This is double welcome for Austria: It is gratifying for the government budget, there will be slight redundancies, and of course it is also a pleasure for the overburdened judicial institutions. New is the political and geographical extension to the countries of the Council of Europe, including some non-EU countries. This is important for Austria in particular when it comes to the countries of Eastern and South-East Europe, which are statistically involved in the detention stock in Austria. I've got the day statistics from 1st. January 2015: There were 20 extraditions from 15 countries in Austria. Among them was a single non-European from Algeria, otherwise they came from six Council of Europe countries which are not members of the European Union: Albania, Macedonia, Montenegro, Russia, Switzerland and Serbia. So there will be acceleration, relief in extradition. That's positive, it's a debureaucratisation and an acceleration. Therefore, the SPÖ clearly says yes to the implementation of this legal regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e25550	The next item is the report by Mr Knes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e25571	Madam President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The third Additional Protocol to the European Extradition Convention is essentially a very good protocol and has also been signed by Austria, but unfortunately not yet ratified. Since the entry into force of the Extradition and Legal Assistance Act 1969, Austria has already been able to initiate the faster procedure. However, the obstacles existed at a formal level, because we had to request a wide range of formal documents, and the extradition process has always been extended. The essential point now is that in the future there will be a deadline – with these said 30 days – and in the end the budget of the Austrian state can easily be relieved. That is why the SPÖ has a clear consent to this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e25605	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We come to the vote on the request of the Committee on Justice, the conclusion of the State Treaty in 374 d.a. in accordance with Article 50(1). 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Lausch, colleagues, on the conclusion of state agreements to force the imprisonment of foreigners sentenced in Austria. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[19:28:44]] 16. Point Report by the Committee on Justice, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 868/A(E) by Mr Mag. Albert Steinhauser, colleagues with regard to psychological advice for Schöffen and Schwerden (463 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e25668	We thus arrive at the 16th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e25695	Ladies and gentlemen! This item on the agenda is a request from the Greens that the Schöffinn/Schöffen/Schwerben may resort to psychotherapist care if they participate in taxing evidence proceedings in court. This application has a real background: We received an e-mail from a shoal who participated in a procedure in which he had to see, among other things, images, where it was a sexual abuse, a sexual violence on the 13-year-old stepdaughter by the stepfather, who was then also condemned. After this procedure, this ship has written us the following: After the trial, I was sent home. With my thoughts, with my impressions and with the experience I have to personally find a way around. So far, I only know one thing: I'll never forget these pictures again! I think it is not professional and contemporary that unspoiled citizens are left alone with such extraordinary events and experiences. I don't think you can add anything. In a modern judicial system, professional care must be ensured when citizens perform their service as shoals and oaths. We have therefore submitted a request that the Ministry of Justice should ensure that, according to specific procedures, where violent offences and sexual offences are usually involved, it is then – and this is important – not during the procedure, so that no manipulation door is opened, but according to the procedure – psychotherapy is allowed, which would be relatively simple, but the number of target groups concerned will probably not be too large. It is about concluding corresponding contracts with therapists and then referring the people concerned to them if they need to work out what is seen in the process. However, this relatively simple and clear request was rejected and is obviously rejected in plenary today. Instead, SPÖ and ÖVP have submitted their own application, and in this application they propose the following: There should be a decree that judges are referring to the possibility of helping the psychosocial service and the crisis intervention centres. We have thought that this may not be the optimal solution, but it could be the second best solution, and then have us in the psychosocial service and in the crisis intervention centres inquired. For the first time, they have never heard of the fact that they are supposed to take care of courtships and oaths from judicial proceedings. But that would not be a fundamental problem. I think it is only strange that we in Parliament should make a decision that they should be the starting point for such a thing in the future, and they themselves know nothing about it. But I'm fine. But what makes you think about it: If you ask the Psychosocial Service if he can even be the starting point for such courtships and oaths, then the answer is relatively clear: No, because we're responsible for acute cases! 50 percent of our clients are schizophrenia patients, we lack the offer for psychotherapeutic care. In other words, the psychosocial service has already become a contact point. Then we called the crisis intervention centre. They told us: Yes, we are basically responsible for such cases, we can also provide help. There's only one problem: We have these offers only in Lower Austria and Vienna. That is to say, it is seriously proposed here in a matter which should not be taken lightly, as this letter shows, by Parliament, that one should turn to a place which is not responsible and, on the other hand, turn to a place that can only offer such an offer in Vienna and Lower Austria, i.e. in all the other Oberlandesgerichts-Sprengeln outside of Vienna as a contact point. In this way, one cannot deal with courtships and jurymen who do not voluntarily provide this service to the State, but who are selected and who make it voluntary. It is unprofessional and incomprehensible that there is no professional solution in these cases, and I find that unacceptable. That is why we are going to reject this request, because we do not need a sham solution, but we must take seriously what a citizen has described to us, who has been highly irritated, and who is professionally sided with the shoals and oaths. I am really glad that I don't have to see such a film material, and I am glad that there are courtships and oaths that still play an role in the sense of lay courtship, which is legally anchored with us. But in this way it is really impossible to deal with citizens who voluntarily serve the State through the exercise of courtship and jury activity. I find that impossible. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e25760	Mrs Himmelbauer is speaking next time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e25781	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Steinhauser has already referred to this specific case and, above all, to the letter which has been sent to all the judges, including the Federal Minister. This is certainly an understandable suggestion or, more specifically, a request from the concerned court to support lay judges in such stressful situations. Minister Brandstetter has made it clear in the Committee that he has absolute understanding of this and reaffirms that, within the framework of his possibilities – and I must say that in the context of the financial possibilities – he will be looking for solutions which, in particular, are in line with the Greens' request, to ensure retroactive free psychological consultation. Since this is not possible with today's day is, also because of the financial possibilities and financial issues, we will reject this request. However, one step we want to and can take is to improve the information about external offers. We have put forward a request in committee, which is intended to include the preparation of an information brochure on possible or concrete offers. On the other hand, it is also about the fact that the courts, especially in these taxing criminal proceedings, point out these offers in concrete terms to the persons involved. I am quite aware of the concerns expressed here by Mr Steinhauser. Of course, it takes this request to the competent ministry to work here on solutions and on this information brochure and to create or support the offer together with these institutions – crisis intervention centres, psychosocial services. I should like to confirm once again that the subject has certainly not been covered by this proposal, but that we are exploiting the opportunities for today's day. I would therefore ask for broad approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e25820	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Grossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e25842	Madam President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Laity is a special feature of the Austrian legal system. There is probably a need for a lot of things to be done to the citizens who come in there. I have experienced this directly when I myself worked professionally in court, how stressful this activity is, not only in time, but also in a psychological way, especially when image material is visible to film material. We must not, of course, leave people alone to process the whole thing if they make such a special sacrifice for our legal system. There is a state's debt to offer these people some help. With this now announced intention, even in the motion for a resolution, to provide assistance to the persons concerned, we are taking a step in the right direction. Of course, the concerns expressed are also to be taken seriously. But here I can say, also from my own experience, because I was also active in a social association, through individual accounts with the Ministry of Justice, you can always get a solution with institutions. And if these organisations are now being announced, it is also much easier to find solutions. They have said that there are not many cases in which it is concerned, and in individual cases solutions will be found. If you notice any problems, then report this to the Ministry, report it to me, then we will work out a solution! It is important that the problem is addressed, and in so far as I also thank you for your willingness to raise awareness here and to share it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e25872	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Vetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e25893	Madam President. Minister! High house! This discussion is an opportunity to remind us that the judicial office is a heavy one. And it's also a particularly difficult thing for lay judges. Laity judges are an expression of a democratic attitude. More or less democracy is a matter of particular concern to the jury. The more democracy one has, the more lay courtability one has, the more jury courts one has. The Court of Justice, therefore, because of the scepticism to the courts of the profession, may now be entitled or not. Laity judges are entrusted with the assessment of the most serious criminal cases that exist, starting with murder. Murder – eight oaths that have to decide on the issue. It's already a nuisance when we put these crimes on them. However, I would also like to remind you of what the laymen have to swear, according to § 240a of the Criminal Code: “They swear and vow to God, the evidence presented against and for the accused, to examine with the most thorough attention, to leave nothing unthinkable, which can be sufficient to the advantage or disadvantage of the accused, to observe faithfully the law to which you are to apply, before your statement on the subject of the trial with no one, except with the members of the court, to consult, not to give an ear to the voice of aversion, fear or abjection, but with impartiality and firmness, only according to the means of proof presented before and against the accused and to your conviction founded upon it.” There must be no discussion outside the court Senate during the procedure. And that must also apply in this case. The honourable Member has already put the request in such a way as to be followed, but even in a long procedure there must be no discussion. That is an essential point. And the other is not to listen to the voice of aversion or aversion. This is a serious burden that we impose on the people, and we should once again get to grips with this item on the agenda. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e25942	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e25963	Madam President. Minister of State in Office! I spoke in favour of a brief speech because we are changing our voting attitude to that in committee. We have, in our own way, agreed to the resolution tabled by the government parties, because of the information given to us by the Green Group, we cannot accept it here, because this is a classic example of how to deal with something. A problem is identified by an opposition party. In the normal case it is then said: A good idea, we're going to delay! But now you're saying: This is perhaps a bit too dangerous, because we do not need to delay, but we have our own initiative! And what about the government parties now? – Mrs Grossmann said: Well, it won't be that bad. turn to me, we'll find a solution, we'll work on it, we'll rock there, it'll go somehow! With such a motion for a resolution, we are actually undermining the authority of this House, because this motion for a resolution is – I see it now – a pure placebo. In reality, it is Push to calm down a bad conscience in some form. And we can't agree to that.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e26002	Mr Feichtinger is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e26024	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Yes, Dr. Rosenkranz, I am sorry that you do not agree with the motion for a resolution. The problem raised by Mr Steinhauser by his request to the Committee on Justice is quite serious. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] And if you keep in mind the example he has set in his application, then you have to say that a mental burden, a mental burden on lay judges is not to be rejected either. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: As a criminal defender, I also have to look at it, it's not funny!]] - You too have to look at that in your profession, right? But, and this has already been agreed by the Federal Minister in the Committee, it will be considered in what form it will be possible to resolve in the future in order to perhaps approach the request, which has its right, in some way. The current motion for a resolution is once a first step on the way, and I hope, as the Federal Minister for Justice has already said in the Committee, that we will come to a solution in order to ensure support in a psychosocial way for lay judges in the future. We must also be able to finance them. Therefore, as the first step, I am now seeking approval of this motion for a resolution. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e26064	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e26086	Madam President. Mr. Minister! What's going on here now is a little scurry, you have to say. The Greens' request raised a very important problem. It has been rejected for not quite understandable reasons, and then this new motion for a resolution has been tabled, which could be said at first glance: Well, there's something you've been thinking about, you even write explicit places to take care of. However, Mr Steinhauser has already carried out that one does not feel responsible, cannot bring the offer, the others do not create it purely spatially. And the argument that has finally convinced me that I do not agree with the resolution of the government parties is the financial means. I'm the first one who normally says we have to look, we have to be careful that we don't spend too much. But please, if I commit an Austrian citizen to something – and in this case this is a duty; from a democratic political point of view, it is important that the people are there, but I commit the citizen to it – and I can't tell him such things afterwards, I'm not sure if I can take care of it, because maybe I don't have financial resources. So this is a very terrible announcement, because if I commit people to doing something like this, then I have to give them the necessary support afterwards.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e26128	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. First of all, I would like to put to the vote the request made by the Committee on Justice to take note of its report 463 of the additions to the motion for a resolution 868/A(E). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give your consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also vote on the resolution on better psychological support for lay judges in stressful situations, annexed to the Committee's report 463 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. (E 67.) [[19:47:51]] 17. Point Report by the Committee on Justice, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 269/A by Mr Mag. Beate Meinl-Reisinger, MES, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Employment Act (464 d.b.) 18. Point Report by the Committee on Justice on motions for resolutions 345/A by Mr Mag. Beate Meinl-Reisinger, MES, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Employment Act (465 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e26198	We now come to points 17 and 18 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. There is no mention of this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall therefore proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 17: Request by the Justice Committee to take note of its report 464 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. I accept Amendment No 269/A to the Constitutional Committee. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 18: Request by the Justice Committee to take note of its report 465 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. I accept Amendment No 345/A to the Constitutional Committee. [[19:49:42]] 19. Point Report by the Committee on Justice on motions for resolutions 843/A(E) by Mr Mag. Nikolaus Alm, colleagues on the opportunity to review data protection authority (466, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e26290	We're coming to the 19th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. There is no mention of this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the request of the Committee on Justice to take note of its report 466 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. I accept Amendment 843/A(E) to the Constitutional Committee. [[19:50:45]] 20. Point Report of the Education Committee on the Government Template (448, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law, with regard to all-day school forms and movement orientation at schools, the Federal School Supervisory Act, the School Organisation Act, the Federal Agricultural and Forestry School Act, the Federal Law on Schools for the Training of Body Teachers and Sports Teachers, the School Teaching Act, the Federal Law BGBl. I No. 9/2012 as well as the Higher Education Act 2005 (461 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e26348	We're coming to the 20th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. I welcome Mrs Heinisch-Hosek. First of all, Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e26378	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! There is in itself an application to which one says in advance that it is about the question of the daily turn hour, the daily movement unit. The government template, by which Mrs. Minister was so initiated, has actually failed the entire leisure pedagogical project. I now have to say, Mrs Bundesminister, that I regret you to a certain extent, just as Mr Ostermayer did, because in reality you both have to clean up the great heap that your predecessor in the cultural and teaching department, Dr Claudia Schmied, has set up. However, compassion is limited, for it is still your party, and you have carried along the year accordingly. Now comes this point again, it is said: Yes, we are all for the daily movement unit, but it will work only in the whole day school, if possible with restricted instruction – where then the freedom of choice will ultimately be removed! This is something where you can introduce something through the back door, where you can say relatively plausibly: What do you want? Daily turn hour, movement unit – that's the corresponding resolution! We only bring it into the area where it fits us ideologically right now! – We therefore reject this in principle and on the basis of fundamental considerations. Mrs Bundesminister, on the verge of this meeting, we heard that the Green Group – as announced in the media – had tabled a motion of censure against you. And there I can only say: It is in itself the highest time! Mrs Bundesminister: Plaiting, bad luck and pans – what She's been persecuting everything since you were the Federal Minister, although the foundation stone in the era was laid there. A determined breakthrough, a determined reform, as you have announced, looks different. I'm thinking about the construction site BIFIE: What did we hear? – By the end of the year, there are some of the whole sluices you have commissioned, corresponding position papers, evaluations, appropriate proposals, as the BIFIE will look new. Now it's late February, and we don't know anything yet. Central Matura: The experimental rabbits Students are released with insufficient methods and resources to take such important steps in their lives, namely to complete the Matura when they have attended a higher school. Server panels, data leaks, to lack of server capabilities – and who is to blame for this? – It’s always the others, it’s always the companies; this time it’s a Linz company that provided the servers. I have to say one thing: There is hardly any area – and an entrepreneur would like to do so – in which there is a degree of planning security as in the field of education. You have six years in advance, and you know – with a range of variations – how many children start school. I know exactly – immigration is taken for granted, but you probably have better data on how it will look and what you plan to do with it – that you can say how many children go to elementary school from the age of six. – Such a planning certainty would require an entrepreneur to know exactly what offer he has to make in six years. It will be very special even if it goes towards university, because there you know – with planning certainty – at about 18, 19, 20 years – how many Austrians will begin to study, depending on what service they choose, for the presence service or something else. This can only be desired, but still our education system fails. It fails, and the number of examples – I have now listed some: BIFIE, Central Matura – can continue smoothly. The education system in Austria, one of the most expensive in comparison, simply does nothing. I am surprised that it is still working in such a way that young people and teachers are so motivated as to contribute to something positive. In Try reality You're something, and we're seeing this danger at the central matura, the semi-centralized competence-oriented matura. For example, we have rejected pre-scientific work. That was one of the main reasons, and there are now also corresponding problems. We say: Our children are too sorry that they serve as experimental rabbits – experimental rabbits in the truest sense of the word. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Let us see what these more than 5,000 school attempts mean, which are simply time-limits for what the Court of Auditors has shown! – Nothing is done. It seems to me that the minor square is an ivory tower in which the well-picked experts put the sounds in their hands and advise accordingly. One thing was very revealing to me: In the course of Question Time, we asked you where you would like to develop the social focus for the future financing of schools. In the context of the review of education standards, students' social data are consulted. There is this data material, but you, Mrs. Federal Minister, have said here – these are studies that are compiled with tax money –: Yes, but the data material, the figures will not be provided to scientific institutions they need or want, but to selected scientists. This is not at all in line with the requirement that transparent action should be taken where tax money is inside. No, you're afraid that this data will be misused if everyone can have it, if that's what every Otto normal consumer is doing. Mrs Bundesminister, no, that's not how it can be! Because I don't think someone sitting at home in the evening thinks: Today I don't necessarily look at the American sitcom, where the laughs are already pretended, but today I click through the social data on the website of the Ministry of Education and I will be doing a lot of abuse! - No, it's not. She and In fact, your experts fear that it will become even more evident that what you understand by socialist education policy will lead our education system to the edge of the collapse that this is even more revealed. That is why we will also support the Greens' request for distrust accordingly.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e26458	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Grossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e26479	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to return to the subject of bringing more movement to Austria's schools after the scepticism of my previous speaker. In the early years of life, the foundations are laid for a health-conscious, sportingly active way of life, and therefore it is a command of the hour to extend the catalogue of tasks to include these aspects and to bring more movement to Austria's schools: through the daily movement unit at all-day schools compulsory, at other schools as a fundamental task. Cooperations with sports clubs should be strengthened to benefit, on the one hand, the know-how and motivation of the trainers and on the other hand to ensure that the sporty club growth is a basis it has. This was the great fear of the introduction of all-day schools: that then there will be no time for the club to take children to too much use by the schools. However, all day long school forms are supposed to produce exactly the opposite. Whether a child can participate in sports community activities should not depend on whether parents serve as daily taxi services. All of this is to be organized at school as far as possible. In addition, this applies to cultural offers, to other offers that are of value and worth to be accepted by children. In addition, this bill should also bring a quality boost. The tasks of school supervision will be extended by the afternoon part, the professional image of the movement coach will be established, and the framework conditions for room leave will also be improved. Now it is about running as many schools as possible all day, and the financial resources have been increased accordingly, because – I say it again and again –: The semi-day school is no longer contemporary, no longer corresponds to social reality. But above all, it is also a matter of motivating children and young people to live in a healthy way of life, to be active in sports life, and I also say that here in this room – through my own example. I also quote the following children's friends saying: What benefits the best education – children are after all.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e26521	The next item is the report by Mr Mölzer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e26543	Madam President. Minister! High house! For the first time – Mr Rosenkranz has already said it –: We will reject this proposal because, from a free point of view, the central element of freedom of choice and flexibility for parents and children will not be given. Secondly, this will only have an effect for 17 percent of students at all, in terms of daily gymnastics, the daily movement unit, and the flexibility, especially in rural areas, but, as I believe, would certainly be necessary in the urban area, if it were to be possible for children to be active in clubs in the afternoon, there will not be any. On the back door there is almost a compulsion for restricted teaching. The second issue I would like to address – which is also fitting in this series of pans, Mrs Minister – are your unfortunate statements on the closure of micro- and micro-schools. You have been back there, but you can believe me, in the rural area, in the schools concerned, you have caused a lot of uncertainty. They do not necessarily make a policy that is rigorous and comprehensible to people. We have therefore tabled a request which we hope will be able to deal with in the next committee with which we want to ensure that small and small schools are safeguarded by making it possible for school associations of more than two schools to be established in order to introduce administrative efficiency. I am pleased to see if you, Mrs Minister, and your group will carry it along by the last committee in accordance with your announcement. I look forward to an interesting discussion. In principle, Madam Minister: If you're not going through the country for the I-I in schoolbooks, take more care that our children also read, write and count in the rural area! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e26590	The next item is Mrs Jank's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e26612	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Yes, I am pleased – in contrast to the opposition – that we have succeeded in developing the school a little. [[Abg. Walser: We agree and are also opposition!]] Thank you, wonderful! [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Real Opposition!]] But I do not see this as an endpoint, but as a mosaic in the development of the picture school in its entirety. Nevertheless, this mosaic stone must be highlighted because it is once a step in the right direction. I would like to draw two things out in particular: Of course, we have the opportunity – and at the end of the day too – to ensure more movement in all-day school forms, especially in folk school. Movement doesn't always mean a full turn hour. It means, above all, letting those into school who can convey what they like to do; especially in rural areas, we can limit club life with school life. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mölzer.]] Whatever it takes is the opening of the school to society. School buildings are often as built as barracks – and so you often feel there. And that is why it is important to make this exchange. I am therefore particularly committed to the implementation of another point which is regulated by this law, namely, in addition to sport, other areas – art, culture, as well as companies, organizations – are also brought into school or gone out of school. This would underline and strengthen the quality of the afternoon offer. For example, the technical and natural science sector would be such an area in which we have a very high need for follow-up – girls very special. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz]] Entrepreneurs need this, we have growth opportunities there. So if we make it possible for young people to get to know these professions at all, then it opens up opportunities for them, because you're just asking what you know or what you've come to know. This means, however, that we must, of course, deal with this challenge. There are the school, the school management, the school partnership required. There are, of course, also the external ones required. Above all, however, they must first know that there are such possibilities. I really hope that we can work together to carry out the knowledge that such cooperations are desirable, are possible, and that they will also be adopted. But that is not going to happen by itself. We will need a lot of effort to implement this. But it is all worth making these efforts. Because if we succeed in moving there, then we achieve what we really want, namely that school does not take place next to society, but that school takes place in the middle of society. We should support children as early as possible in their overall development, and the first step has been taken – we must follow further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e26681	Next item is the report by Mr Dr. Walser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e26702	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Yes, what we are discussing here, what we have to vote on today, we can support. We are glad that we are really taking a step in the right direction here, ensuring more movement, at least in part of the schools. – As far as the positive. Mrs Minister, you will understand that the opposition has the task of pointing out the weaknesses. I should therefore like to point out that there is a restriction which is difficult to understand for me. The daily movement unit is to be fully developed at those schools that have all day offerings, and not at all schools. It is, however, that this unit of movement at half-day schools is urgently needed. Brain research says that. Movement is “Doping for Children’s Brains”, wrote Gerald Hüther, the well-known brain researcher. Children who learn, children who learn with joy, need movement, and all the more teaching we tend in ever shorter time units, the more this movement is necessary. We must therefore take this next step immediately. We also welcome the fact that schools will be able to cooperate with associations in the future. These are correct steps, and this leads to a certain opening of schools, we see very positively. What we see less positive – and that is why I make a whole series of applications – is the possibility for schools with non-all-day offers. We have a motion for a resolution on the movement of thousands, which is because we can achieve, by a minimum of means, 1 million to 2 million euros per year, that impulses are put in this direction in schools. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is about money, please, which is more than just present, and since a clear word towards ÖVP: ÖVP-Mahrer calls for figures on the budget, was a few weeks ago to read. He asked for that a few weeks ago. – You know that your party is the Minister of Finance. They know her exactly what it looks like with the teaching budget. You know exactly that the wrong amount is € 300 million, € 340 million, for the current budget of 2015. And then to go to the public with such statements, that is already a courageous matter. Mr. Mahrer wants a “double cash register” for the educational resort, it was then called. Like not everyone knows what's going on, please! – Over the night, the Minister of Finance will be able to provide up to €300 million for a security package – for education systematically, unless the Ministry of Education is concerned. Yesterday I read in the newspaper, the renovation of the Himmelpfortgasse, the Ministry of Finance – renovated under the direction of the Ministry of Finance – is estimated to be 93 percent more expensive. Instead of the originally € 70 million in cost according to planning, you are now – current status; there is still a lot to complete – at € 206 million. Please, that's the taxpayer's money! That's money going off at our schools! Ladies and gentlemen, if you operate like this, it's hypocrisy! It's hard to bear. Hypocrisy is...
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e26780	Yes, Mr Walser, is an order, which I hereby give you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e26810	I take back the expression “saint ” with the expression of regret. What could you say? – Insanity, systematic insanity in operating. There are still creative proposals from the Greens: Fraud, rear-light guidance – I hope that doesn't all fall into your category. Look for the crucial, the best word for the protocol! In any case, it is not tolerable what is going on. [[Abg. Rädler: This is a cowardice!]] Yes, it is a joke to deal with the future of Austria in this way, Mr President. It's a naughtiness, it's us...
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e26837	Mr Walser, I would also like to say to you, Mr President, that there are no words in the Minutes. Please, you're speaking again.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e26861	Thank you, Madam President. I assume that this call for order has also been granted to the colleague of the ÖVP. I have only taken up his word in order to reject it. The fact that I am in favour of it a call for order that the ÖVP college will say to me: “Frequent!” I find interesting. This seems to me to be questionable at the Presidency. - But let's continue. I'll take this easy and endure this call for order. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Sieber]] Madam President, I am now tabling further motions for resolutions: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is about what many representatives of your party have called for. Let me make another proposal. Mr El Habbassi – I hope he will be present for the vote this time – has repeatedly called for political education. Her Foreign Minister Sebastian Kurz has called for it in January. He was supported by the Vienna ÖVP chief Manfred Juraczka. Everyone said – literally – that we consider political education to be a command of the hour. I offer you today the opportunity to support a request on this subject. The application is simple and simple as follows: Resolution Member Harald Walser, colleagues on the subject of ‘political education’ The National Council wants to decide: The Federal Minister for Education and Women and the Federal Minister for Science, Research and Economics are invited to attend all school types at the latest from the 7th century onwards. School level to introduce an independent “Polish Education” and to create a separate teaching programme for political education at university level. This, ladies and gentlemen, is what you have called for. I ask you and I also expect you to support this request accordingly. Let me lose a few words on one of the most difficult issues of recent weeks, namely the central matura. Here, Mrs Minister, crisis management is indeed unacceptable. What has been done here in recent weeks and months of uncertainty has exceeded the level of tolerance. What is meant, above all, by students, but also by teachers at schools, puts us at risk of this project failure. Mrs. Minister! That is why we are going to present a self-employed motion of censure today. We will try with you in the next few weeks to deal with this situation so far that at least not the maturants are the sufferers. We are concerned about bringing this project to the stage this year, that as many of the maturants as possible the Matura also exist that they have the chance to exist this Matura. We are therefore making the following request today, and we urge that it be supported as follows: Resolution by Mr Harald Walser, Members of Parliament, on emergency plan for the Central Matura The National Council wants to decide: The Federal Minister for Education and Women is invited to amend the examination regulations for the standardised age and diploma examination: In the event of a negative assessment of the work in a clause, the note of the subject-matter in question should be included in the selection of the Matura in the final certificate, thereby improving the overall score to a maximum of “satisfy”. The evaluation of the grades and the decision on the overall note shall be carried out by the mature audit committee. This emergency plan is to be considered as a transitional solution for at least three years until education at schools actually meets the requirements of the new maturity test. Ladies and gentlemen, this proposal leads in the right direction in that it enables us to maintain the positiveness of the central matura, namely the feedback on the real state of knowledge of the maturants. At the same time, however, we achieve that we have as little “not enough” as possible that maturants who have been poorly prepared – perhaps also by their teachers – are certainly also with a role – not the sufferers of this regulation. I therefore urge you to support this. Mrs Minister, I would also like to ask you to reconsider the extremely complex assessment grid for the assessment of various matura works. That's where we create a bureaucratic monster. We have a lot of work. We are willing to deal with this together. We offer our hand here and hope that this hand will also be taken in the interest of the students. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e26990	Mr President, I shall be presented with the Stenographical Protocol. You know that it is my job, as the Rules of Procedure provide, to ensure that the dignity of the House is safeguarded, and that is why I have put this into the debate. As far as your requests are concerned, two applications are obviously self-employed. The one concerns the teaching of ethics and religion and the second, this examination order that you have brought in. I therefore have only two duly tabled motions for resolutions. One concerns the motion initiative and the second motion for a resolution concerns the "political education" requirement. These two motions for resolutions have been properly tabled and are therefore under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e27149	Next speaker: Mr Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e27171	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! The bill on which we are now talking is based, so to speak, on a historic request, which was the first six-party request in the Austrian Parliament. [[Abg. Rasinger: What does Stronach say about it?]] [[Abg. Rasinger: What does Stronach say?]] [[Abg. Rasinger: I want to know, what does Stronach say?]] And in this first six-party application, a daily turn hour was required at our schools. Now you're making yourself up here today and saying: Yes, this six-party application will be implemented!, only: I have read this carefully, but you, Mrs Minister, obviously do not, because this request does not say that this daily turn hour should only be introduced for 3 percent of students – and that is exactly what you are doing today. Yes, we will agree to this today, because at least 3 percent of students will enjoy a daily turn hour, but, please, try to sell it as “success”, is really not all right, because in this six-party application, which is said to have seduced you to finally implement it, it really is not that only 3 percent should be able to enjoy the daily turn hour. Only 3 percent of Austrian students have the opportunity to go to a full-day school – and this is what this bill refers to. Only in a full day school is the daily gymnastics possible. The fact that you are working with Placebo's policy is simply that when you, Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, started as a minister, you said that you want to expand the whole day school, which would be useful, because you have achieved something that should be at your heart as a social democrat: The whole day school makes the educational success independent, at least to a large extent, from the education of parents. The problem, however, is that currently 97 percent of children are unable to train full-day school, coming home from school, depending on whether they have parents who are learning with them who are promoting their child – and be it with financial grants in the form of supplementary education. And there is the question of whether they can do this at all or whether they can afford it. And if that's not the case, this child will be left behind in his ways, and that's the problem. Since you always have the word “social policy” in your mouth from the SPÖ and say that you want to do something for socially disadvantaged people, I tell you: Start the whole day school with limited lessons, so that the children can be promoted regardless of their parents' home in the afternoon in such a way that they can exploit their potential! We owe this to all children – not only the children from so-called good homes. That is what you are doing, Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, but not, quite the opposite: They even diverted money dedicated to day-to-day schools. And now you're even so far that you can't even pay the rents for the schools again – let alone, extend all day lessons. Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, hearing So let's go with your placebo policy! Stop with this little girl! Why don't you go on the big things at last? Go to the real problems that exist! A second example of your policy: the New Secondary School. That was your great ideological project, which is about removing class differences; that is why it is ultimately in your ideology. And what did you do? – They did nothing but exchange door signs: The former primary school is now called “New Secondary School”, but it has not been and will not be implemented which could lead to success by a New Secondary School, namely internal differentiation, but you do not want that at all. You have said several times in the Committee that there is no internal differentiation in the New Secondary School. This team-teaching is made, where in the class – as it should be – everyone is unclear anyway – the children are so to speak processed by two teachers. They do not allow you to take weak children out of class, bring them together with other weak children and promote them extra – yes, extra promotion to give them the opportunity to get along properly in class. That's the problem: You have done something with your ideology, which we have already experienced in Austria before, namely this total standstill. And now you come with your announcement floss, tell of all kinds of good things, but nothing happens. If you do something like today, then the 3 percent of students are involved – although this could have been implemented for a long time. If you say that you want to allow 30 percent of children to go to all day school in the foreseeable future – the Court of Auditors says that it is exactly 2.9 percent of students – yes, exactly – 2,9 percent of students who have limited full-day education! [[Federal Minister Heinisch-Hosek: 20 we already have! You're wrong!]] [[Federal Minister Heinisch-Hosek: Limited All Day School!]] [[Federal Minister Heinisch-Hosek: We are not talking about restricted!]] Mrs. Minister, don't tell me any fairy tales! My children are eight or ten years old, they go to the hort in the afternoon. And what do they have of it? – Nothing at all, because it is not a restricted lesson! [[Federal Minister Heinisch-Hosek: 20 percent!]] It is not even seen that the children are doing their house exercises properly! I can then sit down in the evening and see if the exercises have really been done properly. That's what you're doing, but what I want – and not just me – is a limited lesson and that in the afternoon what the school is supposed to do is help those who don't develop as they could, as it would be possible. You know that very well, Mrs. Minister. So don't tell me anything of 20 percent; it's only 2.9% of students. That's where you should finally get in the way, Mrs. Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e27292	Mr Klubobmann Dr. Strolz is next spoken. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e27328	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Rasinger: Air under the wings, please! Now let's take it off!]] Dearr ÖVP sector! – Focused high, I'm glad. – Citizens' values! We are now negotiating a legislative innovation in the field of education, in relation to the day-to-day turn hour. We NEOS will support this, because this novelle brings the day-to-day gymnastics into all-day school forms. This is, as Mr Lugar has just pointed out, not true for about 3% of pupils – for the large majority. I think it must be seen in such a way that, in fact, the day-to-day turn-hour – so much as it would be desirable – would practically not be feasible at the moment; there is no infrastructure et cetera, et cetera. But I think that's a goal it's worth fighting for. The way to this However, we would imagine NEOS differently. You know, the school autonomy we think is the lever to realize the educational transition from below. Why a turnaround from the bottom? – School autonomy means: We encourage and demand the creative, the innovative, the constructive, the creative forces in the school system. At present, these forces are systematically slowed down by red tape, by overregulation, by a culture of distrust and by party political intervention. If we are moving towards daily movement for all pupils, we want to implement this on the way to school autonomy, and I am now putting forward two motions for resolutions: one concerning national implementation strategy on school autonomy. Mrs. Federal Minister, we have a very broad consensus. Six political groups in the National Council say: Yes, more school autonomy! We conducted a survey of educators with the extrapartial initiative “Talents bloom!” and 1 460 teachers participated. The advocacy for more school autonomy is really overwhelming, so also by the teachers. They want to go into this responsibility – and need freedom for it. We have seen that, for example, the student representatives are calling clearly for more school autonomy. There was a letter, for example, to you, Mrs. Minister, on the part of the Student Union in Vienna, who also went to the educational speakers, to the youth speakers. – In other words, all those concerned agree: Let's create more room for design! Let's make room for responsibility! This is contained in the government programme, in September 2014 it was once again anchored in this six-point programme, and the federal working group also took this on a trip. It is time to make nails with heads, and therefore the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] If we have school autonomy, we need so-called educational regions. This is our proposal, which is also shared by the Greens. That is why the motion for a resolution on the transfer of current school administration in educational regions with a proactive educational service. This educational service should assist in networking, should assist in the cooperation, and precisely also movement can of course be organized cooperatively, just across several school locations. The application is as follows: Resolution The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Government, in particular the Federal Minister for Education and Women, is invited to create the necessary legal framework as soon as possible to transfer the structure of the current school administration to ‘education regions’. In these educational regions, a ‘education service’ is to be established, which serves as a proactive partner in school quality development and security.’ I'm asking for support.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e27386	The motions for resolutions tabled have been properly tabled and are therefore under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording:
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e27488	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e27510	Ladies and gentlemen! In the education system, we need to make gradual reforms in order to improve the educational opportunities for our children. This path, which has been taken in recent years, is being pursued consistently by Mrs Heinisch-Hosek. I am very pleased that we can take another important step today: the step towards daily movement in all day schools – an important step for our children, which we must not underestimate. I am pleased that we will decide almost unanimously here in the House today. Even the ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party, who are the only ones in this House who will vote against, are not quite easy to argue, as I have noted. The reason for the lack of freedom of choice here is an argument which is very difficult to understand. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kitzmüller.]] In fact, it makes it understand how difficult it is for you to be against it, because you simply cannot be in favour of supporting an important step which the Federal Government is taking here. As far as the point of daily movement in all-day school forms is concerned, from my point of view, this is a very good example of what would be possible to attract children in the sense of the offer, we would have more schools all day long, i.e. the corresponding offers for children, in the restricted form, as we imagine. Then we could also further develop this in the sense of a better offer of cultural things, for example, including the support and promotion of individual children, previously mentioned and called for. Because you can not only speak positively, even if something is on the table that you support and agree to, the point of the central matura has been addressed. Mr Walser, the concern that as many children as possible should exist the Matura, as you said, we also represent. In our opinion, there is no need for a green emergency plan. What is necessary is professional, consistent preparation in quiet water. A system changeover always brings uncertainty. I understand that very well, because my son mated last year. It is clear that the children are insecure when things run at once different from the usual ones. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] But the constant upplay of every little thing strengthens the uncertainty and does not help the children in dealing with this situation at all. It is important, as has been said, to calm water and professional preparation, and that is, I think, with the Federal Minister in good hands. In this sense, one should continue to improve the education system step by step and by step.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e27567	The next item is the speech by Mr Deputy University Professor Dr. Däderle. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e27588	Madam President. Mrs. Ministra! High house! Madam President, you have today voted in favour of moderate Verbalents. I wish I had a very different call for order, which is obviously not foreseen in this House, namely the call for order on the matter, for: We are talking about a law, and a host of speakers are tearing the whole issue of education policy into the debate here. It is not possible, in such a debate, to make any argument or to present an area. It simply abuses the presence of Mrs Ministra in order to get rid of all kinds of frustration and other accusations, and the real issue is hardly discussed. This, of course, is also a consequence of the fact that 17 speakers are intended for a law which is hardly controversial and which almost everyone agrees with. You just have to take refuge in all possible fields. This is something that is very, very disturbing to me and which I would like to say in principle. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Now, however, I am still talking about the matter very briefly, because the matter itself is quite pleasing. We return to an old ideal with the introduction of the movement unit at least in parts of our schools. Because the ancient ideal of the Greek Paideia has always included a musical and physical education next to the intellectual. And it's known that the gymnasium is called gymnasium, because there was a naked turn. This has even the name of the physical activity in this school, which in ancient times always has an essential and green This was an integral part of education concepts, but in the course of time it has also come to terms with a completely different relationship, such as Christianity to physicality, a distanced, negative one, and has only recently returned to school. The physical activity had to return to schools because of the fact that young people in particular have very little other means of physical activity available to young people. That is why I would like to combine the praise for this law and for its initiators with the appeal to see how much the school has to take over compensation and replacement functions. It is good that she does, but one should also be aware of the social responsibility that young people should be able to live out their physical activities otherwise. This should be better taken into account in urban planning, spatial planning and in the planning of housing units. What the school is doing here and what it is going to do is good, and that is why I can only warmly agree with this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e27637	The next item is the speech by Mr Christ. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e27658	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I should like to start by thanking myself for being a sports speaker here to talk about the daily gymnastics in schools. Today, for us, for organized sports in Austria, is certainly a happy day. I can say here for my three colleagues from the ASKÖ, ASVÖ and Sports Union: It is today a first important and truly sustainable step on the way to the daily movement unit. Minister, we're going to be At the beginning, you will be intensively and actively accompanying and supporting you so that we can also take the next steps, because you will not do this alone. Together, I think we will do a lot of work. First and foremost, there are four small words that have a very important meaning: on the one hand, “health conscious ” and on the other,“ sporty active way of life. ” Some ministers have needed to be able at last to include these four words in the regulations in the legal provisions. The current Minister Heinisch-Hosek did it. She has said from the outset that this is very important to her and that she will do everything she can to take sustainable steps here. Thanks to her for that. That wasn't easy, but now we've done it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But this is also the consistent continuation of an excellent initiative that comes from the Ministry of Sports. We have now carried out five years of the movement initiative “Moving children healthy” in kindergartens and in public schools. We have played over 4,000 kindergartens and more than 4,000 public schools. More than 300 sports clubs have been involved. More than 1,000 exercise leaders have been on the way to workplaces to bring the children movement and sport closer and to promote the desire for movement. We have carried out 2.9 million hours of movement in these five years. It is important to get the children closer to the movement at an early stage. And the consistent continuation is that we are now doing this with the initiative to: daily movement unit, starting in the elementary schools, continue to focus on the day-to-day run schools. The involvement of the federal sports academies in the training has always been important to us. It is equally important that the coach of movement be installed, including its anchorage in the law. And that the associations and associations that are involved in this work and who are awarded the seal of quality, the high quality that is necessary, we guarantee that too. Today, health is an important and enjoyable day for our children, our young people and for sports in Austria. Thank you very much, Mrs. Federal Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e27712	Mrs Himmelbauer's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e27734	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been mentioned that the present government template includes, in particular, the anchoring of sports, movement and the promotion of health as the task of Austrian schools. The cooperation with the associations, the simplification of cooperation and, above all, the involvement of experienced trainers and supervisors is central here, because the associations contribute significantly to the quality of life in our communities. They also create offers outside the school for young people in leisure and, through their activity, they also contribute to a certain rooting of young people in their home communities. However, I would also like to address another point in this government document, which concerns legal clarifications regarding the new ripening test. A number of positive things have happened here, especially for the BHS sector. A small example is, among other things, the presentation of the diplomas, which can be carried out publicly, because this is done in cooperation with companies and with public institutions and they are also a sign for the respective school. For students, the theme of the time budget is probably even more important in practical examinations, which were extended from 15 to 30 minutes to 300 minutes. Both points are positive and also necessary adjustments in the sense of our maturants. I would also like to say something about the current mood of the young people who are now standing in front of the Matura or who are working on it in the next few years. There is some uncertainty as a result of various incidents, and last but not least with regard to the tax system for pre-scientific work. This means that the students have less confidence in the new maturity test, in the Matura, and also in a smooth course of the same. I believe that our task here must be to signal resistance and to give students the feeling that they can rely on the regulations taken and that they can also make their preparations in advance. I do not think there is a proper way of seeking dialogue with student representatives, with teachers and also with parents. Mrs Minister, you have reached an agreement with the student representatives for this school year on the preparatory hours. In the interests of this dialogue, I would like to ask you, together with the student representatives, to find a regulation for the coming years, which will provide safety to the students and strengthen their confidence in the matura, in the new maturity test. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e27779	The next item is Mrs Gusenbauer-Jäger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e27800	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Yes, children's movement needs to be acted on, and thanks to our wife's minister is acting. With the introduction of daily gymnastics, the school is again responsible in terms of health and social policy. Due to the high engineering – keywords: Computers, televisions and so on – our children move too little, that is already very well known, and the school can and will make a compensation. As Mr Krist has already said, there are many projects at ASKÖ. I was also the project manager of a project called “Check your limits”. As part of this project, I was allowed to test 2000 children with regard to their sports motor skills and skills. The result was compared to values measured ten years earlier, and unfortunately there was an blatant deterioration. I can also say, as a former educator: Values required in my early childhood were reached by almost all children, while later it was so that almost no child reached these values. Even during the time of hourly reduction in the school under the era of the Federal Minister Gehrer, it was so because the gymnastics were simply neglected. I welcome the fact that a real step, as often mentioned today, is now being taken, namely the day-to-day turn-hour for the children. I thank you for that. I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e27893	The amendment has been properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e27997	Next speaker: Mr El Habbassi. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e28018	Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! As a young person, one is happy about movement, and in this sense I am of course also pleased that today, with our package of measures, we bring the daily movement unit to at least the full-day school forms and thus create the basis for a healthier school. Of course, we would also like to see movement in other areas of education policy. I would now like to refer to your comments, Mr Walser. First of all, I would like to say one thing: I do not know any statement from an ÖVP politician in which he proposes that religious teaching should be abolished and replaced by an ethics teaching. Our statement is quite clear: We of the ÖVP believe that a religious religious teaching contributes to dealing with religions, with their own and perhaps with others, and that it is an important contribution to the education of our children in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For all those who sign out, I can quite imagine that they also offer an ethics lesson so that they don't have a school-free hour, but we definitely don't want to replace it. On the topic of political education. – It is no secret that I have clearly always pleaded for my own subject “polite education”. [[Abg. Walser: Do you agree today?]] In the Government Convention, we have tried to implement, at least once, this mandatory “polite education” module. I have negotiated this and now I also want it to be the first step. After that, I would also like to have a subject “Political Education”, but it needs some framework conditions. Framework conditions – that means: We need to clarify the funding, we need to clarify that there is a training before and that there is also a plan to do so. [[Abg. Walser: This must be done by the government!]] – Of course, that must be done by the government, that is the task of the Minister! I will support them with everything I can. I will also promote that many Members and also members of the government are pursuing this goal, which I personally pursue politically, to implement its own subject of political education. I do not see this large, broad majority right now. I will therefore not vote for it, because I believe that this mandatory module should be implemented first and that it must be defined once, what is taught in "Political education", and the conditions must be created for it.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e28074	The next item is the speech by Mr Preiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e28096	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. The daily movement unit will take place from September 2015 on the initiative of SPÖ Reality. I would like to thank all the political groups who support this House today. I hope that the FPÖ may consider it again and also get into the boat to support the daily movement unit. It is an important, attractive offer for the students, also a higher quality in the schools. What's new about it? – We know that it is possible for clubs to enter into cooperations with schools all day long. From September 2015, the trainers will also have the opportunity to put the daily movement unit into practice in the course of afternoon classes with the students. Furthermore, a new job, that of the coach of movement, is also created. Those who take part in leisure education with a focus on sports at the educational universities have the opportunity to test this daily movement in practice in the afternoon. This will create an additional job opportunity in rural regions. The most important thing for me: The costs are taken over 100 percent by the federal government. Neither the countries nor the municipalities as school holders for compulsory schools are asked to cash out financially, nor the parents, for which this is free. 610 € are available per support area. By the school year 2018/2019, approximately 41 000 care places will be created in the field of compulsory schools. An added value all around! In Burgenland, students in 133 compulsory schools benefit from this new possibility of movement. I would like to wish all the students and all the educators who spend the afternoon in the course of the day-to-day lessons of the daily movement, a lot of fun and good things. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e28133	The next item is the speech by Mr Gahr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e28156	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! In Austria, considerable public funds have been invested in the expansion of day care in recent years by the federal, state and local authorities. Until the school year 2018/19, an additional €800 million will be invested in the expansion of the afternoon care. Today, if we take the first step towards the day-to-day turn-hour, that is, I think, a contribution to developing and making these day-to-day schools more attractive. We agree that we want more sport and movement in our schools, we don't quite agree on the extent and timing, but I think we have to be realistic. It is about creating the framework as far as equipment is concerned. It's about that we need corresponding spaces like gyms, motion rooms. It is about that we need additional staff resources such as leisure education and sports teachers. That is why I welcome the fact that training for the coach is also being invested. So today we decide on a package that is to be the start into a future in which we want to force sports in school for our children and young people. It is a first step, and we should take the positive one from it in order to perhaps expand this in the next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e28187	The next item is the speech by Mr Hofinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e28208	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Minister! High house! I would like to say very briefly that, of course, our families, the parents, also have a certain responsibility. I would like to support this with a German study that says that our children between six and twelve years are sitting outside school at least four hours – on the computer, with mobile phones and so on; in addition to homework. That should make us think. A sports survey by Linz also says – and this is even more remarkable – that about a quarter of the adult youths between 16 and 29 years of age are absolute musculoskeletal muffles. So this has to give us some thought. It is well known what forms of lack of movement lead to: Coordination problems, 17 percent of our young people are seriously overweight. Of course, this is also to be taken into account in the health system. It is therefore necessary to anchor the sport as soon as possible and as early as possible in the minds of our children. For that, I think the daily turn hour is a milestone. But that can't be anything, which is why I also welcome the offensive of our family minister Karmasin to force in our kindergarten movement. But I see a great potential in the rural regions, of course, also in the cooperation of the sports associations. I also see this in the surrounding communities in my home: Where afternoon care is offered, sports clubs with trainers and exercise coaches are very often active at the schools. In this I see a great link between clubs and schools, which also makes it easier for children to stay in a club in later life, after school. In addition to the team ability and other social skills they learn in the clubs, they of course also learn movement and sport. In this sense, this area, I believe, is still capable of expanding. Let's move – not just in sports! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e28250	Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, Federal Minister, spoke. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e28272	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I just wanted to put something right at the beginning, because there is a big mistake in the room, which I cannot, of course, stand so, I want to contribute a little to the enlightenment. We have to go to the 100 000 children and young people at the compulsory schools that are now going to a full day school. And we have a little over 40 000 children and young people who go to a school at an AHS all day. That is, there are a total of 140,000 children and adolescents, or 20.8 percent. Only almost 3 percent go to a restricted full-day school. Those I mean, those who, through this law, which we will now decide on the same, will be obliged to enjoy a daily unit of movement, are almost 20 percent and not 3 percent! The 3 per cent would have the opportunity to tour every day even in the morning, accompanied by exercise coaches or leisure teachers with sports focus or even leisure education, because they alone can complete this unity with the children. In the midday school with afternoon care, there are 140 000 or 20 percent. - That's just to clear this mistake. Of course, we are working on the fact that we can offer even more restricted forms all day long. I am very busy negotiating with the countries because we need to solve the not easy question of explosives together so that we can offer the restricted school all day long at reasonable distance, as the government programme says. But today we do two out of six points from the Schladminger paper, if I may say so again. With the anchoring of active lifestyle and sport as a task for schools, it is possible for everyone to turn every day, even in the semi-day folk school, if you want to. This only needs to be decided by the class or school forum. You can now autonomously put the movement in the foreground in such a way that it is possible. But we want to get even more quality in the afternoon, and this is exactly what this big step, which is now being decided, has been necessary – and this is also a point from Schladming – by including the care plans in the curriculum and requiring school supervision to look at exactly what is being done with the children in the afternoon. In addition, new school co-operations will also become possible, so to speak, that the leaving of premises will be tightened by law, these are only things that will be decided by the way with this bill package. It would also be better for me to say it in every school form every day, but because of the freedom of choice of parents it is so that we naturally force restricted schools all day long. The whole day school, as it is now set up for 140,000 children by 2018 – that has already been said today – with really much money, with 800 million € that we will have available, will cover 30 percent. That is, every third child, about, will find a full-day schoolground. And by 2018 from 3 percent of me would be 10 or – if it went to me – even more percent, which in a limited day-long school, then, of course, it would also bring social compensation, as has already been said today, and make much easier for some parents because they no longer have to seek after help, because the children can do everything in the schools. Let me say one last word about a large project that has been prepared for a long time and is now going to the finish line. The new Matura is a well-prepared project, and I would like to see almost all who are involved in it stick together, help together and do not cause any uncertainty. I can't defend the impression that a few students are unfortunately insecure, instead of giving them the confidence that their prescientific work, even if it has been uploaded a little too late, is still safe. We've cleared this up in the individual case. At the moment, the upload is absolutely no problem. The three-partity of the new mature exam brings absolute relief to students because it allows better planning because it is a good preparation for the time after when a study is started, because by presenting a pre-scientific work you learn to present yourself because you are training to focus very carefully. The standardized maturity examination on one day for all pupils and then within 14 days the oral examinations, which can now be selected from the subject areas, even the number of oral topics can already be determined and the compensation examination can be carried out at the same time – so, I think, if we work together, we can give safety and should not cause uncertainty. Therefore, the semi-standardised maturity and diploma exam, as it is called correctly, will also go well over the stage. I am very pleased that very positive words have been found here on the daily movement unit, and I would like to conclude by thanking all the Members who have contributed in advance to the fact that this project is ready for decision today, and also the sports organisations that have sought in a follow-up and vehemence to keep this project in mind, at least in a large first step – the daily movement unit for all is then the next step – so that we can take this decision today. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e28336	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law in 448 of the Supplements. There is a supplementary or amendment tabled by the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Mr Grossmann, Mr Jank, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. I shall therefore first vote on the parts concerned by the amendment or amendment referred to above and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Mag. Grossmann, Jank, colleagues have tabled an additional or amendment to Articles 5 and 7. Whoever speaks for it, I ask for a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a sign on this point. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall therefore come to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Walser, colleagues on motions for resolutions. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Walser, ladies and gentlemen, on the subject of 'political education'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Dr. Strolz, colleagues on ‘National Implementation Strategy on School Autonomy’. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – That's the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Dr. Strolz, colleagues on the transfer of the current school administration in educational regions with a proactive educational service. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[21:07:39]] 21. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the report of the Court of Auditors, Series Bund 2014/12 (III-95/486 d.a.) [[22. Point]] Report of the Court of Auditors on the report of the Court of Auditors, Series B. 2013/4 (III-17/487 D.B.) [[23. Point]] Report of the Court of Auditors on the report of the Court of Auditors, Series Bund 2014/16 (III-128/488, B.C.E.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e28497	We are therefore going to the agenda items 21 to 23, on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. I welcome the President of the Court of Auditors, Dr. Moser. First of all, Mr Mayer has spoken. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e28528	Madam President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to comment on today's Court of Auditors' reports on the financial correction in the agricultural field. Many of you who are not in the Court of Auditors may not know: It is about the basic areas that have been given too much to settle funding in the EU, but also within the country. The Court of Auditors' core criticism is that one of the three main players of the integrated management and control system, InVeKoS in short, has fulfilled the agricultural chamber as a representative of farmers' interests and thus a negative conflict of competence has occurred. To make it a little clearer, I quote from the short summary of the Court of Auditors report: ‘The AMA only informed the Agriculture Chambers of the quantitative results of the on-the-spot checks concerning their competence. () The farmer acted in good faith if he took over the surface result of the on-the-spot check unchanged in his multiple application and was therefore no longer exposed to the risk of sanctions. ==References== Communication from the AMA to the farmers was partly difficult to understand and not self-explanatory when they did not make it clear to them the area to which the letter referred." Ladies and gentlemen! Why am I quoting that? – I know the problem of the miners and I have also experienced their anger when the first press releases about the aether and the print media came, that they have given wrong information here, and they have, as they have felt, been unjustly criminalised. There was negligent behaviour, but not by the miners, but by how the Court of Auditors worked it out, the intermediaries. [[Abg. Doppler: Exactly!]] The Court of Auditors makes it clear that farmers seeking support did not know at all the legal consequences of their signature. I am therefore pleased that this Court of Auditors report has also contributed to the decriminalisation of our alms, because the Court of Auditors' answer to the question of guilt, which has been welcomed, is clear: The mountain farmers are not to blame. It is also gratifying that the Minister in the Committee has made it clear what measures should be taken to prevent such problems from happening in the future. – You know the problem with digitization et cetera. To sum up, I believe it is important that, thanks to this report, it is clear in the future who bears the responsibility. It also seems important to me that once again the farmers, in which case it is especially the mountain farmers, have come into the handcushion wrong – at least in the media prejudgment. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e28564	The next item is the speech by Mr Gahr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e28586	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The Court of Auditors, beginning in 2012, has worked intensively on land support in the agricultural sector. The so-called Almchaos, as it was often called, was actually the trigger for it. He questioned the ways between AMA, the Chambers of Agriculture and the Federal Ministry. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] In fact, Mr Pirklhuber – and I can say this in the first place – has shown that there have been few financial corrections in Austria since accession to the EU from 1995 to 2013. [[Interlocutors Pirklhuber and Doppler.]] Austria, compared with other Member States, has picked up the public money that is available to farmers as a compensation for benefits. You also have to say that the systems have worked. Only €0.58, i.e. less than 0.1 percent, had to be corrected from € 1 000 of agricultural funding paid. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: But 10 million have been recovered from the farmers!]] So you should not only criticize the whole system, Mr Pirklhuber, but you should not forget the work and performance that has been done positively! However, this report shows quite clearly that we had problems there. There are 37 specific recommendations from the Court of Auditors, and it was quite clear that there were shortcomings in the distribution of tasks. It was then also introduced digitization. This, of course, made a contribution to the fact that it was possible to measure the areas more precisely, better and more precisely, especially as regards the pastures – and as a Tyrolean MP, I am an important concern. This digitization has certainly contributed to the fact that there have been differences in the system, both in methodology and in communication. Of course, even when the areas were visited on site, there were different opinions, which is pasture area and what karst area. There were different viewpoints. The Court's recommendations were clear. This report, which has been prepared in parallel to the whole discussion and which has been prepared very day-to-day, has stated and recommended that clear decision-making structures and jobs should be defined, that the Alpine guide should be constantly adapted and adapted and that clear criteria should be used to limit subjective discretion. It takes clear contractual arrangements between the board, the AMA and the ministry in order to avoid future conflicts of interest, we must define these in the INVEKOS working contract. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: That's right!]] Finally, I should like to stress the need to take account of the Court of Auditors' reports as they are. One has been able to take away a lot of positive things very quickly and very quickly from this matter. I hope for the future that we will have a system that will provide us with documentation and legal certainty in the area, so that our farmers, our farms, can collect the direct and compensation payments to the full extent and extent that they are entitled to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e28648	The next item is the speech by Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e28669	Madam President. Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I can underline the statements made by my previous speaker, Elmar Mayernur, because I think that is the nail on the head, Mr Cot. One thing we must already be aware of is that not the farmers, the farmers, the farms who made the mistakes, but the awareness of the competence of the different institutions was very wrong. I think it's urgent, dear friends. What is still annoying me – a pity that the Minister of Agriculture is not here today – is the following: In the case of pastures, the alpine pastures, where there has been problems, the farmers have not been informed to this day; and if I do not know, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot legitimately object to this. That's a big problem. This is precisely what is true of the information given by farmers, farmers and farmers about the fodder areas. This is also seen in the EU's recoverys, which originally amounted to over €40 million, and in fact we had to repay €3.6 million. I believe that on this occasion we have to thank our farmers. I would also like to thank you, Mr Moser, for having so clearly broken down in this report where the problem lies. – Thank you very much for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e28705	The next item is Mrs Maurer's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e28727	Madam President. Mr President. High house! Dear sisters! I will refer to another point from the Court of Auditors, namely the 2014 Court of Auditors' activity report. I would also like to express my thanks to the employees. It has doubled the output of the Court of Auditors over the last ten years: In 2004 there were still seven volumes and 33 examinations; last year there were 15 volumes and 67 examinations. The work of the Court of Auditors is a very important basis for our parliamentary work. - Thank you so much for that! [[Congratulations on the Greens and on Mr Zanger and Mr Schultes.]] In this activity report, there are three points that are striking and which I would like to draw attention to. The most important point is certainly the special position of the chamber examinations. That's not a really new topic. It is true that although the Chambers are examined by the Court of Auditors, there is a special scheme for the publication of the reports. These reports are not published by the Court of Auditors, but by the Court of Auditors. Chambers themselves. And how they do this and when they do it and who does it, it is not clear or it does not clearly emerge from the law – which in the past has led to very creative interpretations. I think it was in 2010 or 2011 that the Steiermark Chamber of Commerce commented on a Court of Auditors report and did not make the comments before the publication known. There are time and again delays. The question of what is actually a publication is also not clear: If I put it on somewhere, is that also a publication? - That's questionable. The Court of Auditors has then decided on these particularly creative interpretations and has declared that it will publish itself in the future, but it can only do so after the Chambers themselves have announced that they have published. However, if the Chambers do not publish it if they do not announce it, the report will not be published either. This is actually a rather unbearable state. We believe that this special arrangement must be abolished. We also believe that the chambers should no longer be able to escape as far as their outsourced companies and companies are concerned. There is always the argument that this would not be covered by the test requirement. For this reason, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] That's the one thing about the chambers. I would like to address two other points which are striking in relation to the Court of Auditors' activity report. One point concerns the financial impact that laws should always describe: It is very remarkable that the Ministry of Finance is particularly sumptuous. The second point is that 10 percent of the demand procedures are no longer answered. This is actually quite a disdain for Parliament. So there is also enough work for the year 2015 left, which is what Parliamentary It is a matter of control. I'm sure we're going to have to make some extras. Anyway, thank you very much for the work.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e28812	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e28888	The next item is Mrs Schenk's speech. . I set you up for 5 minutes and draw your attention to the fact that this is also your group's remaining speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e28910	Madam President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we are negotiating the Court of Auditors reports once again at a later hour, summarising three reports on this item on the agenda. At the outset, I would like to thank the President-in-Office and his team for the excellent reports. [[Complementary of the Abg. Dietrich.]] In addition, I would like to ask all the political groups that we in the President-in-Office once again agree to discuss the Court of Auditors reports a little earlier. Finally, it is about the tax money, and this is also interesting for all Austrians, who may not be watching at this late hour. I would now like to address three areas, namely the financial corrections in the agricultural sector, the public relations work of the Ministry of Life and the Court of Auditors' activity report. A number of previous speakers have already mentioned the financial corrections in the agricultural sector. I would like to highlight a few points. On the one hand, I would like to make it clear that the administration chain of the Ministry, the AMA and the Chamber of Agriculture has failed, which have not been aid to farmers, but have misrepresented them, especially in the area of alpine land development, but then have been completely removed, and there is no jurisdiction, as the Court of Auditors report clearly states. I would also like to express the unhappiness of the Minister in the Committee, where he said that the question of debt was not relevant. It may already be that this is not relevant to him, but I believe that it is very relevant for farmers who are guilty of this misguided situation. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Finally, farmers also need legal certainty, which they can expect. The Minister should not only be behind the listed institutions – the AMA, his ministry and the Chamber of Agriculture – but also behind the farmers for whom he should act as responsible ministers. As mentioned above, 37 recommendations have been made by the Court of Auditors and 31 recommendations have been implemented. But there is also, as the President of the Court of Auditors has announced to us in the Committee, a follow-up review, and I consider this to be very important and meaningful in this area. I would like to focus on public relations in the BMLFUW. Here the report has shown that only 35 000 € were used for the destruction of brochures, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] I hope that a rethinking has taken place in this regard and that paper calculation and paper consumption will be better regulated in the future, because it cannot be produced brochures and then paid €35 000 for the stamping of these brochures. Finally, I would like to refer to the Court of Auditors' activity report, in particular the precarious financial situation of the Court of Auditors. We have often debated this issue here in the House, and we have made many requests for it. Unfortunately, they were rejected by the government groups. I would therefore like to make an explicit reference to the financial situation of the Court of Auditors. The President of the Court of Auditors has informed us in the Committee that in 2015 €2.2 million of the reserves that the Court of Auditors has saved will have to be dissolved so that normal operations can be maintained in some way. 23 plant sites were not re-occupied. There are more and more tasks, the control activities alone in relation to the extremely complicated media transparency law and the party law bind incredible resources. As a result, 30 follow-up tests are no longer possible – follow-up tests that we would need, however, because the Court of Auditors is the guardian of taxpayers' taxpayers' money. In this respect, it would be useful to think about increasing the Court of Auditors' budget accordingly with respect, especially since it is not a summary. I therefore appeal to all Members of Parliament, including the Committee, where there is in principle good cooperation with all the political groups, that we really support the Court of Auditors in future, not only with good words and with good speeches, but also with deeds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e28989	Next, Mr Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e29010	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! I can fully agree with my previous speakers, especially the Sigi Maurer, as far as thanking you. We have already articulated this in the Court of Auditors. I should also like to stress what Mr Donk said about the financial resources: In principle, good financial resources for the Court of Auditors are essential. I would also like to follow the statements made by Sigi Maurer concerning the Chambers. It is already surprising that the Chamber of Commerce and all other possible chamber organisations enjoy a special position and thus use this special position in a cruel way. While entrepreneurs in this country have to fully implement the compliance directives and, rightly, they do not remain guilty of transparency. The last answer to the question alone has shown how far they go. There must even be a surprise at what reply we received from the Minister of Economic Affairs Mitterlehner. However, my speech concerns mainly the public work of the Federal Minister Rupprechter or the Ministry of Agriculture. The point 44.1 alone shows what grayishness comes to us next. It is clearly explained that they allow various things to disappear in black boxes, that there are organizations such as the enjoyment region. No one knows where the money is going. At the same time, for example, there was – and I may quote – a definition of quantified objectives or a list of the expected staff and material costs of GRM Gesundheits Marketing GmbH in the application for funding. They do whatever they want. And if the call comes that the AMA should regulate this as a body, then the AMA does so – and nobody does anything at all! [[the speaker makes a corresponding hand movement]] Most importantly, they can hide everything under the cover of the transparency. I think that is quite, very cruel for the farmers and the entrepreneurs in this country.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e29053	Next, Mr Preiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e29074	Madam President. Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. I refer to the Court of Auditors' report on the subject: Agricultural financial corrections, 2007 to 2012 reporting period. In total, the report shows that in Austria we have received €1.4 billion in support per year in the agricultural sector. At the same time, however, it is also shown that we have the second lowest rate in relation to this amount of funding in relation to the recoverys from the EU regarding financial corrections. However, the report also shows that there have been inconsistencies in the period under review, with regard to the general agricultural area, especially in the alpine feed sector. In the Ministry of Agriculture, the problem has been known for many years, and I am referring to a time before the current legislative period, it has been used to cut the problem and not act. I cannot doubt the statement that the two predecessors of the current Minister for Agriculture also had appropriate responsibility for this. Dear ladies and gentlemen! According to the Court of Auditors report, the EU originally recovered from Austria in 2008 of over €64 million. This amount was then reduced to €3.6 million due to various processing operations, which were also transferred to the EU Agricultural Fund. In the Committee, the Minister said that neither the taxpayer nor the farmers would pay for this €3.6 million in return. – I ask myself the question: Who pays this €3.6 million? I should also like to mention that the problem has been identified in the framework of the government negotiations and, on the initiative of the SPÖ of the Passus, has been included in the government programme for agriculture and forestry, i.e.: Setting up a Task Force, a modern alpine guide and also the implementation of these measures under the new Market Regulation Act 2015 to 2020. The President of the Court of Auditors also announced in the Committee a follow-up review on these implementation measures. I expressly welcome this. I can mention that, according to the Court of Auditors report, there is also a conflict of interest concerning clear distributions of competence between the Ministry of Agriculture, the Chamber of Agriculture, the Chamber of Districts of Agriculture and the AMA. In the future, there must be clear, competence-based rules. I also point out that the advisory contracts currently in the finalisation process must clearly meet the award criteria, including with regard to calls for tenders. Finally, I would like to thank the Court of Auditors' team very much for the thorough report. I would also like to mention that at the moment, as far as TTIP's content is concerned, we cannot accept it, because more transparency is needed. TTIP means investment protection, but above all also for agricultural groups in the USA and Europe, and we are not available for this. [[Complementary of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig]] – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e29131	Next, Mr Singer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e29153	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would like to look at the Court of Auditors' activity report for 2014. It shows a variety of tasks of the Court of Auditors. It shows the high number of audits carried out and also the degree of implementation of the over 2,600 recommendations of the Court of Auditors. This rate of implementation is around 80 percent and is therefore a good 3 percent higher than in 2013. In this context, attention should be paid to the implementation rate of the countries at 86 percent; 81 to 82 percent of the municipalities have a very positive value – from my point of view. I see critically the degree of implementation of proposals concerning several local authorities. The reports on students with migration backgrounds or model experiments are called New Middle School and so on. Unfortunately, in the short time available, I can only take out a few points. I see positively the commitment of the Court of Auditors, which has been focused since 1998 on the problem of corruption both nationally and internationally. In drawing up a guide to the examination of corruption prevention systems, I see a highlight in this regard. I find the subject of revenue from surplus revenue from tax budgets very exciting. This is a very technical story, but I can explain it. The Court of Auditors noted that cities and municipalities from charge households for water supply, wastewater disposal or waste disposal partially reap substantial surpluses and also use them for purposes. The Court of Auditors made it clear that the collection of charges higher than costs constitutes a tax without a legal basis and is therefore unlawful. Cities are particularly affected, especially in Vienna. So far the theory. What does that mean in practice? – A lot has been reported in recent weeks and months about sustainable living, and many corresponding demands have also been made. If you take out the situation in Vienna, it must be noted that the city of Vienna, in addition to the fees for water, wastewater and so on, collects an illegal tax from the tenants. I therefore invite those responsible in Vienna to reorganise this illegal state and thus contribute to the sustainable housing. The behaviour of the Chamber of Workers is interesting to me. It has not yet criticised it, so it has not taken up the criticism of the Court of Auditors. This will not have to do with the impact of the city of Vienna on this matter! We all agree that operating costs also have something to do with sustainable living. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: This is now also election campaign!]] – This is not an election campaign, Mrs. Colleague. Please read the Court of Auditors' report, as it stands very clearly inside! Ladies and gentlemen, the Court of Auditors' activity report is remarkable. Also from my side thank you to the employees.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e29189	Next, Mr Angerer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e29211	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors. We have to discuss several reports on this item on the agenda, first of all the Court of Auditors' activity report. Also from our side great praise to your employees and to you, President Dr. Moser, for the perfect work you are doing. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] As a long-standing observer of an agricultural community and thus also representatives of alpine farmers, it is of course my concern to say a few words on the subject of alpine pastures, because the farmers were really criminalized. They were accused of giving false information. This report now makes it clear that the failure of the Federal Ministry, the AMA and the Chamber of Agriculture, was not with the farmers. Since 2001, the Federal Ministry and the AMA have known that there are problems from the EU. However, no one has become active until 2008, and only when the AMA got the EU threat that it will require €64 million, has it been considered what one could do now. Then they began to criminalise the farmers, to accuse them of giving them false information, and to put them under pressure. Since, I have to say, all the stakeholders sitting here today – starting from the Farmers' Federation, especially in the ÖVP – have abandoned the farmers. [[Abg. Auer: What did he do...?]] [[Abg. Schimanek: colleague, please let him talk out!]] They took 10 million € away from the farmers. It is to be read in the Court of Auditors' report, Mr Auer, that the failure of the Ministry of Agriculture, the AMA and the Chamber of Agriculture was not with the farmers. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In the Committee I also checked with Mr Rupprechter because he said that the question of guilt was not relevant. So when it comes to the EIA, the question of guilt is not relevant! – I asked once again whether he really meant that, and he said the question of guilt was not relevant. We are still dealing with a report on the Court of Auditors today, and we must bear in mind what happened then, including in your ministry. This is about media work: You have placed €29 million in your own media during the same period and at the same time used €8 million for a homepage and intranet care. You know how you act, what you do with the Austrians' tax money: on the one hand, you take away the money from the farmers, on the other hand, you move the money into your own structures! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The homepage and intranet care cost per day – you can calculate it for these six years! – 3 600 €. This costs intranet care and homepage of the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry! Farmers can also read it. Thankfully, the Court of Auditors report is online, on www.parliament.gv.at. I would recommend to all farmers to look at them so that they can see where their representatives are sitting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e29285	The next item is Mr Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e29307	Madam President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Angerer has rightly mentioned this part of the report of the Court of Auditors, which is particularly critical in 2013/4 and which we have often discussed very intensively here in the House. It would have been an exciting premiere today if Mr Berlakovich had spoken here and had commented on the Court of Auditors' report on his own activity as Minister. This would have been an interesting exercise in a lively and self-critical parliamentarianism – perhaps also for a self-critical former minister – but this possibility has been completely omitted by the ÖVP today. There has not been a single chamber official in the Chamber – excused, perhaps Mr Gahr is also a chamber official somewhere, but at least not a President of the Chamber – and has commented on the detailed and very interesting criticisms regarding the implementation of the entire agricultural support system in Austria. [[Abg. No, he's not!]] We stay with Berlakovich for a short time: almost € 30 million in five years for public relations, 94 percent of all ads with a large counterfee, the message mostly: Our farmers bring it! – As far as the added value of such a policy is concerned, the Court of Auditors has clearly and unmistakably explained this. We have resolved this politically, I say, so thank you very much to the Court of Auditors. We see that the efficiency of the Court of Auditors is enormous. This saves tax money, which leads to more political efficiency and is simply a good contribution to a further development of both political culture here in Parliament and overall the culture of politics in Austria. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to address the following point: In the Committee, the new Minister Rupprechter presented a large advertising message – a whole page of advertisements – a joint advertising of a large trading group and the Ministry of Agriculture. He meant, Public Private Partnership. - Wonderful! I would remind you of a recommendation in the Court of Auditors report: ‘An internal directive on sponsorship should be adopted which defines the concept and the objectives (communication) sought and sets out the permissible extent’. I have also made it difficult for the Minister to talk as clearly as possible and to ensure clarity, because if one goes through advertising campaigns with large groups, on the one hand, but on the other hand goes into conflict of interest in the political design or in the award of grants, then there is already the suspicion in the room that this leads to a small – I say – rejection, which then gives the new Minister the same situation from which the old one, so to speak, came out with our help. A word on a point which the Court of Auditors has also made very good: Mr Schellhorn referred to it, namely the whole area of pleasure regions in Austria. The improvement of evaluation, the actual sale of genuine regional products, cooperation with existing institutions: All of this has been promised by the Minister in the Committee! This issue will therefore be dealt with efficiently, and something will happen in this area. Now to the area that has moved us the most for a long time: the Almen-Causa. The Court's criticism, summarized in a few points, is an analysis of the Austrian agricultural system in a quality that is unique. I really want to acknowledge this with all my appreciation. The Court of Auditors has shown quite clearly that the triangle consisting of agricultural market Austria, agricultural chambers and the Ministry of Agriculture is a completely unexplained field, that there are legal relations that are not sufficiently determined, that there are massive conflicts of interest and that liability issues are insufficiently clarified. The Court of Auditors has also, and I think this is particularly important, been able to demonstrate with many arguments and examples that the catalogues of sanctions have not been sufficiently understood by farmers, that they have not known what is happening to them, and that the guide would definitely be easier to make. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the reality! Unfortunately, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I must point out that the new programme already has a similar problem, because the new programme has an obligation to digitise individual trees individually. I now read to you passages from a letter from a farmer to me personally, which represents the problems he has with the AMA. He writes: From 1.1.2015 there will be no AMA with me anymore. paid back € 7 930. Each measure – and the five years back. Sanctions: 0.57 hectares deducted. – You know this problem with surface digitization. – This farmer writes: Land of the Austrian Federal Forest, no hazeltauds are allowed to cut away, the squirrel needs food (Randzone National Park). Therefore, the overhang on meadow and pasture, says the revierförster. [[Abg. Rädler: That's what the Greens want!]] I do not have a private property, therefore the dependence on federal forests and national parks. My lease with the Austrian Federal Forests runs on 31 December. ==References== - Quote. So to the poor old farmer – he is 73 years old – his income has been reduced by €10,000 this year – for nothing, due to current digitization obligations and a poor agricultural policy! I just mention it because it's a scandal. Ladies and gentlemen, I would therefore also like to make the following request, which refers precisely to the necessary reform steps in this area: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, that would be an important request. I also seek approval from the ÖVP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e29381	The motion for a resolution just read has been properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e29451	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Hable. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e29472	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! A few words on the Court of Auditors' activity report, for which I would like to thank you very much, on behalf of our group, and the whole team of the Court of Auditors. I would also like to congratulate you on the success of maintaining the quality and quantity of the output, although the financial situation of the Court of Auditors, as we all know, is anything but optimal. Of course, many interesting points could be taken out of the activity report, but I would like to focus on a special highlight despite the short term offered, namely the 2013 federal accounts. Why? – Because he is a milestone because he completes the federal budget reform and for the first time we are the old cameralist with that – let us be honest! – Keeping the revenue/expenditure accounts as prime accounting is shown and the federal wealth situation is transparent. Transparency is the key word: This is, of course, the positive thing about history. However, the shadow is that this disastrous wealth situation of the federal government is thus clearly on the table for the first time: 140 billion € minus in assets. This means that the liabilities exceed the assets by €140 billion. This is the bad situation of public finances. Finally, Mr President Dr. Moser, I would also like to give you a wish, because it is also our wish: We would like to submit to the Court of Auditors' audit competence in the matter of chambers. It should not be seen that legal professional representations are excluded from the examination of the expediency. Furthermore, there is, of course, considerable legal uncertainty as to whether the Court of Auditors can examine companies of these legal professional bodies, which are able to examine chambers. We want to eliminate these mistakes in the system, this legal uncertainty. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr President, Dr. Moser, you and your team are all right! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e29536	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e29603	Next speaker: Mrs Gessl-Ranftl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e29624	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! I refer to the audit of the Court of Auditors on the publication of the BMLFUW – a critical report, where the Court of Auditors has very probably brought light to the dark and where many details have also been examined. Because of the time available to me, I can only address a few points. Public relations expenditure amounted to around €29 million. It was particularly emphasized that 94 percent of the circuits in the print media were photographed by the Federal Minister in 2010. Furthermore, the circuits were made in media with unknown reach. [[Abg. Rädler: How was Faymann?]] The Ministry also operated a homepage at www.lebensministerium.at, for which the Ministry spends €4.39 million. The auditors also found that the order volume was too high, no comparative offers were obtained, which means in the clear text that no tender was made. The campaign Enjoying Region Austria had considerable resources; there were no specific targets of effect. Further criticism was made by the Court of Auditors of circuits in agricultural print media, where between 60 and 89 percent of the volume was spent on two Austrian media. Furthermore, the fact that the propagated advertising content was partly held very general and had no concrete reference to the tasks of the BMLFUW. The Court of Auditors made 37 recommendations, with, according to Minister Rupprechter, all but six already implemented. The Court's recommendations have been met. In summary, it is very likely that a constructive improvement can be seen. I expect, however, that in the future the efficiency and effectiveness of public relations will be forced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e29661	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Hanger. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e29682	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The attentive observer of the debates on the Court of Auditors reports will have already found that the range of topics is very broad. Secondly, it is true that some Court of Auditors reports are already very far behind, for example those on public relations in the Ministry of Agriculture. The test period was between 2006 and 2011. Overall, this has resulted in 37 recommendations, 32 recommendations have already been implemented, a few are still under negotiation. The criticism practiced by the opposition is actually snow from yesterday. But I want to turn to a current topic. Science Park Graz GmbH was also examined. This is a founding center for academic start-ups and spin-offs. I am of the opinion that this is so up-to-date, because this is a subject which is not to be underestimated in its importance. The basic idea of these start-ups is to strengthen the technology location, to strengthen the competitiveness of Austria, and above all to set labour market policy accents. We all know that 450 000 unemployed at a very high level of self-employed people are too many. That is why these initiatives are very, very important. We have a similar program running in Lower Austria on the Iron Road. Young entrepreneurs need ‘coal’, they need capital to develop their entrepreneurial ideas, mentor programmes and, of course, they also need advice so that these products can be made marketable. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the Court of Auditors: Even if smaller units are examined, this already leads to a view that the organisation of the procedure is being looked at very intensively, as is the way in which the means of taxation are handled. This is very important, but I think that was a very positive test for the Science Park Graz GmbH, so that it can continue to carry out its tasks in the future – and they are very important for the technology site of Austria – even better. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e29725	The next item is the speech by Mr Kucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e29746	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I have just been asked to take a short look at the small remaining speaking time. Mr Hanger has already said that we in the Court of Auditors have not only discussed the ads and the homepage of the Ministry of Agriculture. We have also thought very intensively about questions of research and technology policy, also in the context of the examination of Science Park Graz GmbH. It is part of the Austrian AplusB Centres; this is a very successful model in Austria, where one tries to transfer exciting developments, especially in the field of knowledge and technology transfer, from universities, specialist universities, also to the research companies in the economy; this is also very much to support. There have been a number of proposals from the Court of Auditors. Most of these proposals have been accepted and implemented. Some points – and I think that should be so, too, that you think otherwise – can be widely discussed whether the whole thing is useful. In any case, this was a very exciting discussion also in the Court of Auditors. We are pleased that this area of research and technology policy has been treated so intensively, one of the most important areas for the future. It is about jobs, about prospects for the future, especially for young people. That was an exciting discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e29781	The next item is Mrs Bayr's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e29802	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! The Courts of Auditors, as well as the People's Procuratorate, are very important auxiliaries of Parliament, both nationally and internationally. I would like to refer to the international part of the Court of Auditors' activity report. In Austria, INTOSAI is also home to the Court of Auditors, the international umbrella of the billing courts. These play a very important role in enabling us, as parliamentarians, to exercise our control over the executive. They are also very relevant internationally as regards the rule of law and good governance. It is precisely these issues, which are also covered by the so-called post-2015 development agenda, which is the framework programme of the United Nations, which will regulate the UN's development priorities between 2015 and 2030. It has succeeded – and this is a great joy – that billing courts are also part of the goals, part of the Sustainable Development Goals. There is a historically very favourable constellation that Martin Sajdik, as an Austrian ambassador to the United Nations in New York is also President of the United Nations Economic and Social Council, and we also have a very active President of the Court of Auditors, who has also succeeded in letting INTOSAI decide on two UN resolutions on the role of audit courts. I am also pleased that from the parliamentary side, I was able to contribute a little bit to the Development Cooperation Forum and the High-Level Political Forum on Sustainable Development, that billing courts are now anchored in the draft of the SDGs. The very issue of sustainability is also very relevant in funding, because we know that public funds, public budget resources are limited. To deal with these sustainablely so that they are useful for generations, to protect the environment and to promote social cohesion, to control the appropriate use of them in a parliamentary manner that they are really used effectively and efficiently, that is very important. Accordingly, we also want at international level that billing courts can develop human and financial capacity, are well equipped, are truly independent and have the opportunity to check all documents of the executives without any influence. This is crucial for effective and efficient control. I look forward to further international cooperation in the sense of strong billing courts. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e29841	The President of the Court of Auditors, Dr Moser, spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e29863	Madam President. High house! The eight reports of the Court of Auditors on the agenda today and the Court of Auditors' activity report for 2014 once again show that the Court of Auditors are fully committed to carrying out their duties. This also shows, among other things, the fact that 95 reports or audits of the Court of Auditors were submitted to the legislative bodies in 2014 alone, including 67 reports in the Federal Republic of Germany, 69 reports in the field of the countries and ten reports in the area of municipalities or community associations. Another evidence of the effectiveness of the Court of Auditors is the fact that of the 2 453 recommendations of 2013, 80.4 percent have been implemented or are in implementation, including in the Federal Republic of Germany 75.6 percent, in the country sector 86.3 percent and in the municipal sector 81.8 percent. This is a very high degree of implementation, but at the same time it should not be overlooked that those areas where 20 percent of the recommendations are not implemented are those areas where the recommendations should be implemented in order to strengthen or maintain Austria's financial sustainability in the future. This fails, however, because the federal, state and local authorities have to find a solution together, or because they have to eliminate double-tracks, which unfortunately has not been the case in the past. I would like to pay tribute to the staff of the Court of Auditors within the framework of the Court of Auditors, but also to the staff of the Court of Auditors today. The Court of Auditors is very happy to pass on to their employees because they are those who do the work and are at the same time the ones who deserve this praise. However, I would also like to thank you, as the President of the Court of Auditors, for your constant support for the Court of Auditors' efforts to implement them, whether with parliamentary questions, or with motions for resolutions, because this will also greatly strengthen the effectiveness of the Court of Auditors. Considering the 2014 activity report – which has already been mentioned in the debate – this reflects the comprehensive scope of the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors shall inform it of its activity in the field of impact orientation, corruption prevention, quality assurance in hospitals, the tax budgets and, last but not least, the media transparency law and the party law. And he also informs about his international activity, which has been addressed by Mrs Bayr, where the Austrian Court of Auditors – I think Austria can be proud of it – is the first contact point when it comes to strengthening external financial control worldwide. A few words about the media transparency law as well as the party law: I would like to mention that these two are certainly appropriate laws when it comes to increasing transparency and at the same time strengthening accountability in Austria. However, actual implementation presents a number of problems, not only for the Court of Auditors as regards the additional administrative burden, but also for the audited bodies and parties. The Media Transparency Act and the Party Act provide for additional administrative tasks as well as non-examinational tasks for the Court of Auditors, thus greatly limiting the resources of the Court of Auditors in its core area of “testing and consulting”. That is, only the implementation of the media transparency law or the party law has so far devoured the resources of 30 follow-up reviews. It must be mentioned that the Court of Auditors cannot, however, impose its original audit rights that it cannot bring its audit know-how. Even if there are concrete indications of a misbehaviour among the parties, he can only order another auditor, but he can't even conduct an audit. In the context of the debate, it was also a problem to address a special problem, namely that the chamber companies refuse to submit their reports within the meaning of the Party Act or Media Transparency Act, while referring to the findings of the RTR authorities, the Radio and Telekom Regulation GmbH. Therefore, these notifications, as they would be planned, cannot be made available to you for information. The Court of Auditors will, however, take you into account in the second place. Report separately on these problems during the quarter of this year. Let me also address another area which has not been discussed in the debate today, namely health. You know that in recent years the Court of Auditors has very often examined the issues of financing the health system, but also of structural problems. However, he also pointed out that, in terms of quality, there were requirements, but they were not partially complied with. The Court of Auditors has pointed out in its audits that optimal care for patients does not depend on maintaining a location, but depends on it, which quality is provided at the respective location in the sense of optimising the services for the patients. In this context, the Court of Auditors has examined 18 hospitals in Salzburg, Vorarlberg and Burgenland. In doing so, he had to note that this is different in terms of quality assurance. There is a great need for action on quality assurance – this will certainly be confirmed by Mr Rasinger as a health speaker. For example, the Austrian Health Structure Plan provides for minimum frequencies for operations for individual medical services, i.e. a doctor must perform a certain number of operations in order to maintain quality. However, the majority of the audited hospitals, at least in the case of individual benefits, had difficulties in achieving these minimum frequencies, which suggests, inter alia, that there are difficulties in providing services planning. In Salzburg, seven hospitals did not reach even 50 percent of the minimum frequencies, for example in operations of the pancreas, thyroid, breast cancer, knees and hips. We also had the same problems in Vorarlberg and Burgenland, where the minimum frequencies for operations of the pancreas and thyroid gland were also less than 50 percent. The Court also noted the urgent need for action in connection with oncological care. At the same time, there was a considerable need for action in the area of hygiene management, the fight against hospital germs, the error reporting systems and the obductions. That means there are problems to ensure quality. There is an urgent need for performance concentrations to be carried out to achieve minimum frequencies or for an expansion of hygiene management. Not least, it would be necessary to introduce clear requirements in the field of oncological care so that patients can rely on all information available to ensure optimal healing. Finally, in the course of the debate on "Fears": There is also a need for action, as can be read in the activity report, because fees are lifted beyond cost coverage, resulting in the final effect of a fee being a tax without a legal basis. It would be appropriate to regulate this very well in future also with regard to the economic location and the citizens concerned. Mrs Bayr referred to the Court of Auditors' international activities. In this context, I would like to express my warmest thanks once again to the Permanent Representation of Austria to the United Nations and to the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, for not least in cooperation with the current ECOSOC President, Ambassador Martin Sajdik, it has succeeded in the adoption by Austria of two UN General Assembly Resolutions. This is unique and, as has been said, it also shows how much Austria is getting involved in this case. Next week, a UN/INTOSAI symposium will be held in Vienna with more than 160 participants, two Under-Secretary Generals of the United Nations, a World Bank representative, the World Bank's Chief Financial Officer, the IPU, the Interparliamentary Union. The symposium is about what is being done. that the SDGs, the sustainability objectives of the United Nations, must be implemented. I would also like to thank the Members, especially you, Mrs Bayr, because you have been on the IPU's side again and again, even in 2014, but also with the UN, whether it be at the UN Development Cooperation Forum in March in Berlin, or at the North-South Dialogue in May 2014 in Parliament, or at the High-Level Political Forum on Sustainable Development in July 2014 at the UN. This also helped significantly to ensure that Austria was able to achieve this progress in this area. Finally, I would like to thank you once again for taking up the work of the Court of Auditors very positively today in the debate. I can assure you that, as in the past, the Court of Auditors will carry out its activities independently, objectively and effectively in the future. And I can assure you that your praise, which you have donated to the staff of the Court of Auditors, will surely motivate it, just as in the past, to do its best in the future, so that the quality of the Court of Auditors' reports fits, and at the same time that the Court of Auditors' reports are a basis for you to do your work in the interests of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e29966	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does one of the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 21. Request by the Committee of the Regions to take note of this report III-95 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr Pirklhuber, colleagues on massive deficits in terms of technical and practical implementation in the agricultural support system in Austria. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 22: Request by the Court of Auditors to take note of this report III-17 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 23: Request by the Court of Auditors to take note of this report III-128 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for their attention to be a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members Maurer, colleagues and colleagues on legal clarification on chamber examinations. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Hable, ladies and gentlemen, on the examination of RH tests at Chambers. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[22:11:30]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I have announced that I should like to make some cuts in the preliminary Stenographical Protocol. It is clear from this Protocol that an interlocutory call is made by Mr Rädler: “This is a cowardice!” Mr Rädler, I give you a call for an order. [[Congratulation with FPÖ and Greens.]] [[22:12:40]] [[24. Point]] First reading: Request by Mr Josef Schellhorn, Members of Parliament, concerning a Federal Act amending the Sparkling Tax Act 1995 (857/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e30120	We're coming to the 24th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. President. — The debate is closed. – Ladies and gentlemen, I give the floor to you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e30148	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! It's about abolishing the sparkling wine tax. Our request to the Ministry of Finance has made it clear, and I think everyone in this room knows: This tax doesn't make any sense at all. The answer to the question was the question of the extent to which sales declines are known. The answer came in stone and clear: Nothing is known to the Ministry of Finance about sales declines. As we know, in the first 10 months revenue of €3.95 million was to be increased, for 12 months you budgeted €32 million. Today, the crown was also set up by the opinion of the Bundesfinanzgericht on the ground that there is a constitutional illegality in the area, which will be the subject of the Constitutional Court and is also recommended to withdraw it. I think that the impact on our producers, on our entrepreneurs, on the farmers even last year has been massive damage. The 100 jobs were destroyed. There were massive cuts in turnover, and as the financial court's opinion clearly points out, the costs are covered by revenue. I think that without advocating incompetence in terms of economic ability and incompetence, this error should be corrected. Whoever does not correct a mistake makes a second. That's why my appeal is: Let us completely remove this sparkling wine tax law from our tax legislation! - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e30187	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Kuzdas. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e30208	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Schellhorn, we should leave the church a little in the village. It's not a new thing that you've watered from home against the sparkling wine tax. But you justify the application for abolition with negative effects on the labour market and on turnover. Both have not been demonstrated as confirmed by the Minister of Finance in the reply to the question. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: That's not true!]] But let's stick to the facts. ==References== In February 2014, the Sparkling Tax Act was dealt with in the Financial Committee, and it has already been discussed before, also in the public. There were massive preferential effects, i.e. purchases before the 1st century. March. Each of us, when he thinks about it, will remember that the warehouses of the manufacturers were empty and that big actions were taken in the supermarkets. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] Mr Schellhorn, with these preferential effects a large part of the half-year's needs has been met. [[Further call of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] – Mr Wurm, it is not right! Down here you'll hear better, sign up for a word! It's also the number you mentioned, what was budgeted, not right. It was set to € 22 million for 2014 and € 30 million is set for 2015. [[Abg. Peter Worm: 35 million!]] The first is the preferential effects, which is why it is less important. The second is, you know very well, that has also been explained by the Minister of Finance in the Committee on Budgets last week, so that the reports have to be made until the third month. That is, if we want December too, and we know that New Year's Eve falls below it, then we have data in April. We are good things that we may not reach the €22 million, but at least €15 million we will reach. If the financial court sends it to the Constitutional Court now, well, then we will first see whether it is actually unconstitutional, because by 2005 there was also a sparkling wine tax, and it was not unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e30276	The next item is the statement by the honourable Member on jewellery miners. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e30298	Dear ladies and gentlemen! In particular, the subject of sect tax shows very well that it is not always possible to implement purely interest policy here in Parliament and is very often dependent on compromise and majority education. But it shows us the numbers, and since all the players do not help us that this tax does not bring any additional revenue and does not contribute to budget recovery either. What has already been found by many critics in advance has now been confirmed by the Federal Finance Court and will also be brought before the Constitutional Court. [[Abg. Kuzdas: But that's where you contradict the Minister of Finance!]] We would do well to presuppose the Constitutional Court here, because we have also done so in many other laws, that later, according to the report of the Constitutional Courts, we have followed these statements in the political legislation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] We cannot do so at more than 500 000 unemployed people in Austria, as if we were a few unemployed people in the sect industry. That's negligent. Here, every individual worker and every individual employee must be absolutely protected. And if we have Austrian industries that are successful, they also belong to support. I believe that in the course of the work on the tax package, we could very well talk about this sparkling wine tax. It would be an important initiative on the one hand for the labour market, on the other hand also for basic agricultural production. Because that the effects this year may not have been as intense as we thought they were, there is only one reason in the wine market, namely that we have a very low harvest in 2014. That is, we need the sect industry in the wine-growing sector in Austria. [[Congratulation and bravorage of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] This sector is an important partner, and the Austrian quality products are absolutely the pioneer not only in export but also in consumer popularity. Finally, I can tell you with all my heart that the year 2014 is particularly suitable for the production of sect due to its fertility and acidity.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e30344	The next item is the speech by Mr Wurm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e30366	Madam President. Dear colleagues! It was my first speech here in plenary at the time, just about a year ago, that is why I can still remember it very well. I've got the original bottle with me. [[The speaker places a bottle of wine on the speaker's desk.]] That's what my collaborator, the Isolde, did at the time. Beautifully decorated. I'm not a prophet. But my speech was prophetic at the time. It's one thing that happened, which I prophesied a year ago. And I'm not a prophet, but I'm someone who knows the industry and understands the economy. And that at that time, please, the ÖVP has played with this nonsense, is for me the
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e30406	Mr Wurm, I give you a call for an order for the expression ‘fucking sense’. You're still talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e30444	It was clear from the beginning what was going to happen. Turnover will occur. It was clear from the beginning that you have never understood professionally what Prosecco and Frizzante are. You never understood that! And now we are coming to the point, ladies and gentlemen, just from the SPÖ. At the time you were in the government program, and I still have the original, your officials sold this sect tax as a champagne tax, as an attack on the rich. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] So you sold it all around at the time: as a champagne tax! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What happened? - That's exactly what happened now. We have not only lost jobs in the sect industry, also in the wine industry, in the label suppliers, in the bottle suppliers. But all of this would have been clearly recognizable. Back then, a year ago, I thought, okay, that's how it is in Parliament. It is only now that I am wondering what technical and technical arguments you are using the laws. [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Well, that's pretty crazy! It has been clear to everyone who is anchored in practice that this law is a disgrace. [[Abg. Arbitrators: You didn't understand anything!]] €35 million was the budget approach. We currently have 5.7 million € at the end of 2014. – The numbers come from you! At the end of one, please: They want to fight the Push in Austria from SPÖ. Then please start in your own house and finish this pussy! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e30506	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, despite advanced times, I would ask you to uphold the dignity of the House in the choice of words. Next, Mr Magistrate. Rossmann to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e30530	Madam President. Taxes on alcohol have always been unpopular. In the Middle Ages, there were already taxes on wine, and in the Middle Ages these taxes were called “unmoney, ”“ evil. ” And in the I have been given the impression that, at least in this debate, we have remained a little in the Middle Ages. But let us perhaps go a little into the depth of the discussion and ask ourselves whether the starting point of budgeting for 2014 has really been adequate at €22 million, or whether this has not been what Mr Finanzminister has recently called a 'well-being budget', that is to say, too high. Of course, if a tax was suspended for eight or nine years, as is the case with the sparkling wine tax, it is difficult to say how high it would be than the rise of this tax. One simply took the value from 2004, the success of the year 2004, and wrote it down. Then, of course, what Mr Kuzdas says is that there have been preferential effects. And I think you should first check very carefully how high the amount of revenue is over a little longer before you walk into action and say that we have to abolish this sparkling wine tax as a bagatoll tax again. The Federal Republic of Germany has, by the way, since 1952 a sparkling wine tax – precisely, it has introduced a sparkling wine tax in 1902 to finance the war fleet; in any case, since 1952 in a continuous order – and there are no these problems that we are discussing here. So I would say, let us leave the church in the village and we also take what the Federal Finance Court says, first of all not for cash. As for the illegality of the Constitution, I would say, let us take a look at the Constitutional Court to see if there is any constitutional illegality. But I would like to take a closer look at one argument, because we are always at hand quickly, when it says that we should abolish bagatella taxes, because the profitability is too low. And if the Bundesfinanzgericht says that the efficiency is about the same as the effort for the collection, that is simply not true. You can just make an overcrowding bill. We divide €5.7 million through the average staffing of financial management staff. Then we turn this over to the 114 cellars we have in Austria, then we have about three quarters of the staff per sectclery, which is to check the collection of the sparkling wine tax. So I think that this argument is purely based on these considerations. But what should already be done – and for that, I think, could now be the occasion for this tax reform debate – is that one takes a closer look at the flicking of the taxation of alcohol and sees if one does not come up with more uniform, better solutions. By the way, the sparkling wine tax in Germany is a more comprehensive one than the Austrian one, because it also includes Sherry and the like – let me now speak out, Mr. Colleague! – which are covered by the intermediate product tax. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Woeinger]] In Austria we have an alcohol tax on schnapps and the like. We have a beer tax. We have an intermediate product tax. We have a sparkling wine tax. And in the sales tax, we finally and finally we have a special scheme for the sale of wine. There, I think it would be the task a tax reform to create a uniform approach here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e30597	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I accept the proposal for 857/A to the Financial Committee. [[22:28:26]] 25. Point First reading: Request of Deputies Dr. Walter Rosenkranz, colleagues concerning a federal law with which the Federal Law on Austrian Citizenship (State Citizenship Law 1985 – StbG), BGBl. No. 311/1985, amended (874/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e30636	We're coming to the 25th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. I give the floor first to the applicant, Mr Dr. Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e30663	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! What is the point of this proposal? – This is about the recognition of citizenship for people who are currently active, for example, in the field of the “IS country”. Thankfully, Mr Wittmann, when it came to Islam's law, said that one cannot do that at all, that one subsumes that under the point where one says, the service in a foreign army, because then one would recognise state equality to the "IS state", and we do not want to do so. I understand. Just, Mr Wittmann, there's something like that – and if you've enjoyed a legal study like that, then you know that – like the degree closure. I must say that if the ‘IS State’, which is more cruel about potentials than any subject of international law that exists, calls itself that way – there are people from Austria who, as we have said, serve in a foreign army in a recognized state, who then lose citizenship, whether they have dual citizenship or not. We have made the appropriate reservation for this law. Austria has expressly said that we reserve the right to deny citizenship, whether they become stateless or not, people who go to war in a foreign army. And all the more so, this must apply to people who go to war for such a terrorist gang! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's the point. This is infinitely more cruel than going to war for a foreign state, alien legion or whatever it is about. We assume that such people are actually privileged by such an argument, as they have, for example, presented to Mr Wittmann in the morning. If someone says, okay, I leave Austria for whatever reason and then do military service in a foreign state, then the worse will be punished than those who make up for such murderer gangs. To this end, we have a different access than Mr Wittmann. That's the more terrible thing that's happening there! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Therefore, we do not want to benefit these people from those who serve in a foreign army. We have the reservation, we want to extend it to it. Ladies and gentlemen from ÖVP, Foreign Minister Kurz, who is at home on the world's parquet, has said that he will work to ensure that it will become even common European practice at all, that we can free these “IS-State” fighters from citizenship, under quotations, without anything happening. That is to say, Mr Wittmann, the Minister for Foreign Affairs of your government coalition, demands this even itself! The FPÖ will probably carry out this modest approach in this Parliament, will it?
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e30727	The next item is the speech by Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e30748	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Also at the advanced hour: In fact, this topic has been going through the country for a few weeks. I do not want to quote the Council of Europe now, nor the UN Framework Treaty. I mean, however, that we will discuss this question in peace and quiet, Mr Rosenkranz. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: We have the retention of the law of Austria!]] As far as the Republic is concerned, we must also be clear about our international treaties. No one is served – no one! – if I have a stateless person running around today. I would almost be challenged to say: If we already have such things – and we try to confess them with other legal instruments – it is better for me to take them criminally if one here is a dangerous person for the Republic and our citizens than to discuss citizenship law. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] I believe that this federal government – and there you all laughed – has in fact already recognised in advance in the coming year and we have passed some relevant laws in order to take account of these issues of terrorism or jihadism – as you wish – here. And I think we are here more quickly with some of the measures already in the hands of the government, or soon to come to an assessment of the legislative framework with which we also want to improve the protection of the state. I think we should not do this in a polemic way, but have a clean discussion. I am convinced that we will discuss this discussion – like so many discussions – in the relevant committee in the interest of the state, but above all in the interest of our citizens.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e30789	Next speaker: Mr. Prince. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e30810	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! In terms of content, I can certainly join my previous speaker Otto Pendl. We did on the 10th. In December 2014, the National Council adopted the relevant decisions on border control law and on the other hand on citizenship law. We have to say clearly what is in it. The reference to international law and de facto to the Convention on the Reduction of Statelessness has also been made, which already obliges us to take account of it and it is a difference whether anyone has a double citizenship or not. This has already been discussed in the Committee on the Interior in the run-up to the December decision. If desired, of course, this will be discussed again. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: But Mr. Kurz...!]] But what I would like to point out is: Emotional is quite understandable, you have to deal with it correctly and discuss it properly, but it is only due to populism. I have the impression, Mr Rosenkranz, or more than a little bit, that this is actually about populism and nothing else. I think we can say that by the decision of 10. December 2014 have adopted clear measures of criminal law, namely when it comes to people who, for example, move into the jihad and come back. We have, I believe, made positive changes to these decisions in the December summit, and this is quite comprehensive, smart and without breaching international law. But if it is desired, we will be happy to discuss it again.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e30863	Mrs Mag. Korun. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e30884	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen – if anyone else looks at us at home! This FPÖ application falls into the well-known category of ‘simple pseudo-solution for a complicated problem’ because this request assumes that any problem would be solved with the production of statelessness. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: He can apply for citizenship in the “IS State” anyway!]] What exactly ignores the application is this fact: If someone is stateless or if one has made someone stateless, then there is only quite no country to send him back to or where he could return. That means that someone is made stateless, in most cases, you can't push him anywhere. He'll just stay right here! It is precisely this problem that you do not solve with this request. But I don't think it's a problem, either, but it's just, as I said, a pseudo-solution for a complicated problem. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz:... if citizen wants to stay there?]] They obviously also ignore the fact that the difficult or the most difficult in such things – if someone has already radicalized and if someone has participated in a war or a terrorist regime – is proof that he has participated in acts of war, terrorist acts, atrocities. This evidence is usually relatively difficult to produce, except that he has recorded a video of himself, how he kills someone, and that is loaded on Facebook. There are also cases like this, we know. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] But it would be more useful if the Federal Government had already managed to conjure up €290 million in the hat within three days for a so-called security package or police upgrade package, where our information systems are planned for prevention after only 15 million – this has been announced by the Minister of the Interior, I do not think there is a plan or a programme, that is, we will see whether these 15 million will become reality at all – if one wants to prevent radicalization and extremism, to invest much more in prevention. To make people stateless does not solve the problem, as has been said, because then there is only quite no country... Yes, exactly, you just link up constructive proposals, Mr Rosenkranz! [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: A green high school course will solve the problem?]] They logically say nothing about it: If someone has become stateless – please tell us – then there is only quite no country to go back to. Then he'll stay right here. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz:...not back! Then he can stay in the ‘IS State’! And there will be Federal President!]] Thank you for your suggestions for pseudo-solutions!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e30970	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e30991	Madam President. Mr Rosenkranz, on this scale of grayery that you have tried to put up here, I think we should discuss for a longer time whether this is a legal level of magnitude. Nevertheless, it is exciting because at the same time – and you are a lawyer – you forget, in the same breath, of course, the agreements that oppose your request. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz:... is already a progress!]] They explain in the explanatory statement that it is not necessary to look at whether someone becomes stateless. However, this is necessary – that is why it is also contained in the law – because there is an agreement to reduce and avoid statelessness. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz:... the reservation!]] That is why this is explicitly in it, and that is exactly why we have regulated it in the law. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: We have that with the reservation!]] - Please? [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: We have a reservation!]] That's another agreement. There is then the further agreement – we will discuss it later! My second reason is: What I don't understand is you write in the explanatory statement preventive reasons. Personally, I'm not convinced that you're stopping someone who wants to join the jihad by saying you're withdrawing from his citizenship afterwards. You can discuss that for a long time, maybe it will bring something. Nevertheless, I believe that the essential point is that you are proposing a solution which is not legally sustainable. If you already refer to Foreign Minister Briefly, who may also want to: Okay, but then you first have to change the international obligations accordingly, that it is possible for people to be released into statelessness. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: A short while away!]] If this is your goal, you are committed to doing so at international level, which is completely out of your mind. Unfortunately, this is not possible in the light of the current commitments.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e31079	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. I give the motion for a resolution 874/A to the Committee on Internal Affairs. [[22:41:07]] 26. Point Report of the Immunities Committee on the request of the Procuratorate of Wels (14 p. 11/14 x) for approval of the official persecution of the MP to the National Council of Leopold Steinbichler(459 d.b.) President Doris Bures: We'll get to 26. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. No one is reported in the word. That concludes the debate. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request made by the Committee on Immunities in 459 of the supplements to decide on the following: “In consideration of the request of the Procuratorate of Wels (14 St 11/14 x) for approval of the official persecution of the deputies to the National Council Leopold Steinbichlerwill within the meaning of Art. 57 para. 3 B-VG notes that there is no link between the incriminated action and the political activity of the MP to the National Council of Leopold Steinbichler.’ I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this request to be a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. The agenda is exhausted. [[22:42:33]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2015-02-25-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00061_d8e31170	I am still announcing that, at today's meeting, the self-employed have received applications for 883/A(E) to 973/A(E). Questions 3778/J to 3895/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 22.43 p.m., immediately following this meeting. This meeting is closed.
