ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e6335	Ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the 100. Meeting of the National Council. The official protocols of 96 and 97. Meeting of 14. ==References====External links== ==References== In October 2015, the Parliament's management remained inconvenient and undisputed. Deputies are reported as prevented by Katzian, Keck, Ing. Vogl, Kickl, Brosz, Mag. Steinhauser and Windbüchler Souschill. [[09:06:57]] Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e6369	The Federal Electoral Authority has received the notification that Mr Elmar Podgorschek has renounced his mandate and has been appointed to the National Council by Mr Hermann Brückl in his place. Since the election permit is already in place and the person mentioned is present in the house, I will immediately make his fishing observation. After reading the vow formula by writing, the representative will have to do his fishing with the words “I promise”. I now ask the author, Mr Zanger, to read the vow formula.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e6408	“They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your obligations.”
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e6429	I promise.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e6445	I very much welcome the new Members in our midst. [[General condolences.]] I announce that the meeting of ORF 2 to 1 p.m. and ORF III will be broadcast live in full length. [[09:08:29]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e6477	We are now arriving at the current hour – I also welcome Mr Dipl.-Ing. Rupprechter – with the topic: “Road to Paris – on the way to an international climate agreement” The first is Mr Höfinger's speech. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e6504	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Estimated guests, young visitors At the gallery! I should like to welcome you very warmly on a subject in this current hour, which cannot be more up-to-date – a subject that no one can escape, a subject that concerns everyone. It concerns people in our cities, it concerns people in our communities and villages; it is not just a regional phenomenon but a global phenomenon. I don't think it's possible to ignore it or run away from it. It is about climate change and the associated effects on our entire world, such as global warming with all its dramatic consequences, and of course about the questions – just a few weeks before the Paris climate summit –: Where are we? What can we do? What can the world do, what can Europe do? What contribution can we make? What prospects do we have? All experts agree quickly. We are not only guilty of this, but above all of our future generations, who will notice the effects even more dramatically than we do. We must therefore feel obliged to pass on this earth to them with a functioning ecosystem. [[Unrest in the meeting room.]] What does climate change mean and global warming? Especially today, that day, we are predicted up to 20 degrees Celsius, plus well-notified. There might be some kind of thinking, well, it's autumn, it's winter, a few degrees more than that, I don't care, I don't need to heat too much, and maybe not raise so much snow. Even some...
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e6541	Excuse me, honourable Member. Ladies and gentlemen! I would ask you to lower the general noise level a little so that we can follow the remarks. Thank you. Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e6559	Thank you, Madam President. – Also, some plants and some animals wouldn’t matter if it were a little warmer; rather, they would adapt locally. Yes, even some crops would do well, and they would deliver higher yields. Only: That's not the end of the flag rod. The worst thing is that global warming has far more dramatic effects than the ones described now. Not only that sea levels threaten to rise and thus rob land, entire islands would disappear, coasts would go down – of which about 600 million people are actively and acutely affected – no, it comes to the so-called weather extremes. We have experienced these more and more often with us in recent years. It comes to natural disasters, it comes on the one hand to storm, it comes to phases of extreme dryness, on the other hand it comes back to permanent rain and floods, it comes to a shift of seasons. Director-General Christian Köberl of the Natural History Museum says that three species of animals or plants die every hour. We are constantly reading about new records in the weather records. Perhaps this has occurred to you in recent years, there is hardly a year in which a new record is not reported. I have a brief overview here: The warmest year was 2014, at the same time as the coldest summer, i.e. a phenomenon in itself. Heuer, in 2015, was the warmest July, there were the largest rainfall quantities, and, and. Nine of the ten warmest years since the weather records have fallen over the period since 2000. Nine of the ten warmest years since the weather records have fallen over the period of the last 15 years. Unfortunately, Austrian hail insurance is constantly reporting new records – records of rainfall, hail, floods, extreme frosts, droughts and much more. And the amounts of damage are rising every year. The estimated costs that these weather capitals cause us as a nation as a whole – through crop failures, clean-up work, security measures, health damage and much more – go to billions by 2050. With these extreme weather around the globe, the fertile regions also become less. There's no water, there's no food base. What has been done in recent years and decades to curb hunger in the world is getting serious competition from the weather capitals and is in danger of losing again. The result of the migration of people from these sparse or floody regions is that the fight for distribution will continue to increase. I have a graphic here to show you how global warming has been in recent years, in the last millennium. [[The speaker holds up a panel with a curved diagram entitled “Global warming in the last 1,000 years, ” which he then puts ahead of the speaker’s desk.]] I also took this board with me very consciously for the colleagues of the Freedom Party. You already have winter ade – not winter, but winter. She was the environmental spokesperson of your group until recently. Mrs. Winter was a vehement climate change liar. Therefore, this overview for you: This flat curve in the last thousand years has started to rise massively over the last 130 years. This flat curve could be traced 20 000 years ago, not with ice age and large-scale weather and climate shift. No, this curve remains flat 20 000 years ago. Only in the last 130 years has this global warming increased dramatically by our massive intervention of industrialization. [[Abg. Brunner: And what conclusions do you now draw from it?]] This global warming is caused by the emission of greenhouse gases, especially CO2. This CO2 escapes mainly by burning fossil fuels – coal, natural gas and oil. Last year alone, payments for the net imports of fossil energy in Austria amounted to around €10 billion. Austria paid around €10 billion in 2014 alone to import fossil energy sources. That is why it is an hour's commandment to get rid of these fossil energy sources. Especially in Austria, we have the best conditions that we can really succeed. In this case – and I say that again and again – environmental policy is a policy of opportunity. We know that in this country we have on the one hand a large number of innovative companies that have developed new, environmentally friendly technologies and are market leaders worldwide. On the other hand, we have a colorful mix of alternative energies: the sun, the wind, the water, renewable raw materials – all this is available to us to an enormous extent to which other countries envy us. It was a world-famous personality that meant – I quote –: “I would put my money on the sun and solar technology. What an energy source! I hope we don’t have to wait for oil and coal to be exhausted until we do so.” – Thomas Alva Edison, unfortunately already dead, 1931. His hope has not really been fulfilled to this day. I believe that these innovative technologies, which are now available to us, are combined with the resources when we bring them together, creating new opportunities and opportunities. We can create new jobs, we can leave value added in the country, we can make ourselves independent, cut transport routes, and finally avoid CO2 emissions. To dampen global warming, CO2 emissions need to be drastically reduced. Science worldwide agrees, it has to be acted quickly – and that with effective measures. Those who claim something else these days simply want to become famous quickly; I say that now. To reduce this CO2 emissions, we are all required to do so. Everyone can make a contribution – private, business, municipalities, federal government and countries. And something's moving. Yesterday, the Austrian Climate Change Prize was awarded. I should like to congratulate all the winners once again. You are thus an example and show that it is possible to bring about this change. [[It was in favour of the ÖVP, as well as of representatives of SPÖ and NEOS.]] For the conference in Paris, this means that we must no longer point our fingers to others at this hour, to intensive industrial nations such as China or India. We must not forget that it has become more and more popular in recent times, according to their cheap products – under the motto “Gifty is horny”. On the other hand, we must now keep everyone in the boat and have it in the boat. A climate conference like that in Paris with a participation of 150 countries in the world is not a wishful concert. This calls for diplomatic fingertips to finally let everyone pull together on one strand. Mr. Federal Minister, I am confident that as Head of Delegation of the Austrian team, as you have demonstrated in the past, you are a passionate fighter for environmental and climate protection. You have proved this both on international performances and on national occasions. We also do not let our Austrian successes be small. Therefore, the initial situation is good that we can achieve short- and long-term goals in Paris, such as increased 2 degrees of maximum global warming. It must be restricted, but with the new requirements there must also be a mechanism of sanctions and monitoring. It should not be a rigid allocation, as in the Kyoto Protocol, but it should be replaced by a flexible mechanism. The current adjustments and evaluations must also be put in place. In this sense, Mr Federal Minister, thank you for your commitment and all the good for Paris!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e6619	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Rupprechter. Mr Federal Minister, your speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e6640	Madam President. High house! Climate change, as it was said correctly, is one of the major challenges of our century. He is also real and noticeable: Heat and drought, just like this summer, the warmest ever since there were records. Austria is particularly affected. You just need to get out of the door, then notice. Because if we have such summer temperatures now, in mid-November, this is also a clear sign. The progress report we presented last September shows that the sensitive Alpine region is particularly affected by climate change. Strong temperature fluctuations and the accumulation of extreme weather events in the last few years are clear indications or signs of this. We have seen a rise in temperature in Austria in the last century, which was twice as high as that in the global average. The main cause is the human-induced greenhouse gases, and it is our task to reduce them. This is not an Austrian task, nor can Europe alone fight climate change, but it is a global challenge that we face. That is why it is so important for COP21, in the negotiations of the Parties in Paris, to bring about an international and a global legally binding agreement of all parties – of course, according to their possibilities, according to their circumstances! In particular, the major economies, the major issuers, such as the US, like China, such as the large emerging economies, such as Russia, like Brazil and South Africa, must be included in an internationally valid agreement. And it must be clear from Paris that at international level we are willing to initiate the decarbonisation of our society by the middle of the century, and that we are willing, just as the G7 states in Elmau have decided, to implement a decarbonisation of our energy, mobility and economic systems towards a green economy and to launch a complete decarbonisation until the end of this century. It is also important, above all, to reach a global, legally binding agreement in order to counter the phenomenon of carbon leakage – that industrial companies are being moved to move their sites to countries where climate protection is not so important and taken seriously. That is why we need an internationally binding agreement. Compliance with the 2-degree objective, the maximum permissible warming by 2050, to which the UN General Assembly has agreed, means that by 2020 the maximum level of emissions will be reached – in line with development conditions, especially in developing countries – and then a halving of greenhouse gas emissions by 2050. But that also means a reduction of 80 to 95 percent for us, for the industrial nations, compared to the base year 1990. Paris is therefore not the end of the negotiations, but the starting point – the starting point of a process towards an ambitious climate policy at a global level, as defined in the Sustainable Development Goals by 2030. We must also not overlook the different importance of climate change for different countries. The fight against climate change also has a different dimension for developing countries, for the least developed countries, especially for the island states that are particularly affected. That is why COP21 in Paris is a great opportunity, but also an obligation to bring these negotiations to a successful conclusion. And today, even if with caution, we can be optimistic, because the signs of reaching an agreement are good. [[Abg. Brunner: What is your contribution?]] China and the USA, Mrs Brunner, have already committed themselves. There are already 150 countries that have put their intended reduction commitments on the table so that commitments have entered into which account for more than 90 percent of greenhouse gas emissions. And there is a draft agreement of 30 pages that will be the basis for negotiation. Of course, there are cracks, such as the differentiation of an agreement. We want differentiation, but open and flexible and not as rigid as the Kyoto Protocol. And we want a dynamic of the process, a process of adjustment after five years, in order to strengthen the commitments. And we want a transparent agreement, which is the basis for building trust. One of the cracks is, of course, also climate finance. That is why it is good and right that the Ministers for Finance of the European Union have agreed on a common position yesterday. In the context of the Green Climate Fund, which you will safely address, it is nevertheless remarkable that half of the donation of the Green Climate Fund will come from the European Union. [[Abg. Brunner: But not from Austria...!]] It is possible to solve these cracks. And there will be a compromise in Paris or so. The Austrian position is integrated into the context of the European Union. In 2014, the European Council agreed on an offer in a climate and energy package to reduce 40 percent of greenhouse gases by 2030. The Austrian position is reflected in the conclusions of the Council of Environment Ministers, which are known to you, and this position is clearly defined in Council document 12165. I have already pointed out that yesterday the Finance Ministers, the ECOFIN Ministers, agreed on the financial position in relation to climate finance. Of course, it's about implementation in Paris – that's the big challenge for us too! – and we know that we need to significantly strengthen our efforts in the context of a European climate and energy and integrated climate and mobility strategy. We, ladies and gentlemen, are also well positioned in Austrian climate policy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek.]] With emissions trading and climate protection law, we have effective instruments. Emissions have fallen since 2005, and we are on the path towards 2020. [[Abg. Brunner: That's not true!]] We have lowered the ceilings by almost 3 million tonnes in 2013, and we also expect a similar result for 2014 after the greenhouse gas inventory. [[New call of the abg. Brunner.]] We don't have to take care of our services here. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Wenninger.]] Today, I have a negotiation with the climate protection experts of the federal states in which we will set out the federal/country action programme by 2018 and appropriate measures for the period after the existing legislative period, by 2020. And I am confident – it is my ambition – that we can achieve our goals by 2020 without the purchase of pollution certificates. [[Abg. Neubauer: Which goals are these?]] This can only be achieved through a joint effort within the framework of an energy, climate protection and mobility strategy, where the energy transition, focusing on renewable energy sources and alternative drive systems in our transport systems, will be the focus. The following is clearly to be said: Climate protection is a common task – a common task of the federal and state governments at local and regional level! In the context of international climate finance, too, we do not need to talk about our services in small terms. Then: Austria provides € 130 million annually in various departments, within the framework of bilateral and multilateral projects. We don't have to put our light under the threshold in terms of our performance. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brunner.]] We have already spent 25 million US dollars on the first funding of the Green Climate Fund in Lima – you were there, Mrs Brunner. We are in talks with the countries, and this issue will also be the subject of financial compensatory negotiations. And I am also in negotiations that we will bring about a significant improvement in our teaching for 2016. All this shows: We're not inactive! We have an ambitious climate policy in this country. And people in this country are doing a lot to combat climate change. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] I am convinced that COP21 will be a success. I also invite you to come along, Mrs Brunner. And I invite you, honourable Members of the government groups who will be members of the delegation: Let us go to Paris together to make this COP21 a success, because we owe it to our children and grandchildren! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e6764	The next item is the report by Mr Wenninger. From now on, the speaking time is 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e6785	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am very grateful for this topic of the current hour, because, in the run-up to the UN Climate Change Conference in Paris, not only the content positions here in the National Council differ, but also different positions, which are very high, are on the table by the parties who need to be negotiated and bundled into a common global climate agreement at the Paris conference. This is also reflected in the discussions between experts, in environmental organisations and also in the media. Thus, if you follow the reports of the last days in the European newspapers, you can see that the headlines go from “New Hopes for a Climate Treaty” to “The Paris Climate Summit will fail”. Our common task is – and the Federal Minister has also made it very clear – to contribute to Austria's being one of those forces, as well as other models of conference within the European Union, trying to bring these difficult negotiations to a successful conclusion. It is not true that there is a binding agreement at major international conferences with nearly 200 states and almost as many interests at the touch of a button or on call. It has already been said that the decarbonisation of our society by the middle of this century is a social, economic and social challenge. The same applies to the goal of limiting global warming to two degrees. This may sound like a goal for some unparticipants, but if you consider how different the approaches of the different countries are, you can imagine how difficult these negotiations are. I am very glad that there is now at last not only a process in which more than 150 countries have so far agreed to put their national climate targets on the table, but also a negotiating paper, of which UN Climate Change Secretary-General Christiana Figueres says that it is an ambitious paper in which there are binding proposals, and that it is a good prerequisite to make the Paris climate conference a success. Of course, such conferences will take place until the last minute. I do not think there has been a single climate conference in recent years, which has not been extended by at least one day and has not been negotiated intensively until the last minute. A very big question – the Minister has already mentioned it – is, of course, that of climate financing. This is particularly the question: How will industrialized countries provide the financial compensation that developing countries are entitled to call for? This is because, on the one hand, industrial nations have produced too many greenhouse gases for decades and on the other, because the poorest countries in the world will be most affected by climate change and climate change. We have to say clearly – even if we have to discuss Austrian positions here in the Austrian Parliament – that we have to succeed in bringing the big issuers to a table. But there the US, Russia, China and other major issuers have a different position than Austria. On the one hand, the Russian position is characterised by the fact that Russia's gross domestic product is essentially dependent on energy exports, but on the other hand is being discussed, similar to the US, that climate change also has a positive economic impact, for example as regards the increasing freedom of ice in the Arctic. – These are discussions that are real. And: One also expected a lot from the Obama administration, but finally the credo of US energy independence was in fact ahead of the American climate protection targets. The same can be said of China, where one is willing to negotiate and save greenhouse gases, but where, as a result of rising economic growth, the absolute figures for greenhouse gases will continue to rise. It is also not the case within the EU that all countries have the same positions. We know the CFC position of the Czech Republic and the United Kingdom, and we know the coal position of Poland. Austria is therefore required to make a successful external environmental policy in this context. Social democracy will not only support this, but also promote it together.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e6836	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Big. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e6858	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear listeners! Climate change is an international problem, but we also contribute to this, and that is why it is also a national problem. Of course, the support of international projects, such as the donation of the Green Climate Fund, cannot be large enough, but national interests must also be taken into account, especially in times of close budgets. For me, climate policy is an essential part of economic policy, because the national funds spent on climate policy are well-used funds. Climate policy creates green jobs, it expands the pioneering of the Austrian economy in the context of environmental technology, it helps export and domestic demand, it helps standard security and it creates improvements in ownership and thus also in the future provision of our own citizens. But also the area of housing renovation and own energy generation is an important issue for me. There's still a lot to do here: The funding scene must be maintained, there must be a loss of energy taxes on its own consumption, even if it has not yet been implemented ideologically, and fiscal benefits for heat renovations could continue to make a significant contribution to climate protection for us. That would, in turn, be a good thing. Bring good utilization to our small and medium-sized enterprises, because they could implement precisely these energy supply and thermal insulation measures. This would also contribute to economic growth. Energy generation by wind, photovoltaics and small-scale power plants is also an essential aspect that we should force in Austria. At this point I highlight a company from my constituency, the W.E.B, which was awarded the Climate Prize. Why do I highlight them? – Not only did she get a climate prize, but she creates different points that we need to apply. On the one hand, it uses new technologies, but on the other hand it has used alternative forms of financing, and this combination keeps value creation from production to interest in the country, in the region. And for that, this company is really worth the greatest thanks and recognition. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This company has a large share of exports. Why? – Because the procedures are relatively simple there. Then: Climate policy is also supported by simplifying, shortening our procedures and not by further opposition rights, which are often called for by the green side. Next point: Mobility. – Mobility is also an important point that plays a role in the field of climate policy in Austria. There is also mobility in rural areas, and I would like to take the train as an example, in this case the Franz-Josefs-Bahn. This train has been running evenly slowly over the area for 100 years and does not find the application that would be possible. Investment in public transport would significantly reduce CO2 emissions and would also have a very positive impact on regional policy, and this would contribute to a positive overall picture of policy and the whole region. I would also like to address the support of new technologies, and especially the company Bionik Motors from my constituency. This company has an international patent, is a start-up with very few employees who generate electricity from waste heat. We need to take up such examples, we need to support such examples in a massive way – in so far as there is not only a sale of license abroad, but also the creation of value in Austria remains that jobs are created in Austria and climate policy can be positively influenced worldwide – in the case of such a patent. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Climate policy is an international and national problem, which belongs to climate change fights accordingly. Let's see the Austrian possibilities! If we see that we combine economic policy, regional policy, value added, jobs with climate policy, then an essential part is made. That we support international efforts in the context of our opportunities must be a matter of course, and, Mr Rupprechter, I hope that you and your colleagues from the EU will bring this climate summit to a successful conclusion so that we can do something together for our children. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e6928	The next item is the speech by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e6949	Madam President. Federal Minister! Yes, I actually do happen to me, the overall climate in Austria has been better – but back to the very serious topic. I would like to begin with a description of a history of Walther from the bird pasture that speaks of vineyards in Sweden, and the “Economics Week Writes” – and that is not a publication of the FPÖ – in the 12th century. ==References====External links== – The opening speaker, we would deny climate change or something else. My colleague Hoefinger, climate change, has always been there, and we as people have learned to live with it. [[Abg. Höfinger:... Walther from the bird pasture!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] What we really need to ask ourselves is: What is the position of our industry in the EU and in Austria and, for example, how has the industry already quoted by Mr Wenninger been established in China or India? What do these countries do, what does Austria do, what does the European Union do? We have the best filter technology with us – and there is Austria’s leader – and we have prevention technologies, we have everything that puts us at the forefront of these modern technologies, in our company in Austria, and now the question is how to deal with it: Is the Voodoo policy involved in crystal ball mentality and industrialized wide distances in Europe, or do you deal responsibly with it? – That's all it is [[Abg. Pirklhuber: We know how this looks at the moment!]] We want to deal responsibly with it! I am also quoting the head of voestalpine, Mr Eder, who speaks not only for the world steel industry, but above all for the Austrian raw materials industry, when he says we have exactly these best technologies, and a reduction in CO2 in this raw material industry is no longer possible in us, a consequence of a reduction in CO2 would be a deindustrialization. [[Abg. Wenninger: Have you ever heard of electric steel?]] Brief notice because you're in your Intrusion of electric steel: Electrosteel needs its coke or coal input as well as the blast furnace or the LD converter. [[Abg. Wenninger: You can do this with renewable energies as well!]] The point is just: How do you deal with this? – We in Upper Austria have also shown this in a truly patterned way. Our demands in Upper Austria, in the current negotiations on the new state government, were a revision of the energy future and a total reform in the funding sector. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: The energy turnaround you want to turn back!]] This was taken into account accordingly, the Anschober’s energy turnaround in Upper Austria has been cancelled – in this respect I am particularly grateful to the responsible negotiators of the ÖVP. [[Abg. Brunner: This is your contribution to...?]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have a new energy strategy, which also takes into account energy and industry, which must also be said, because we cannot assume that in other countries, such as China, India, or partly in the USA, consistent deindustrialization prevails. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: A retro-environmental policy is what you do, not a future policy!]] [[Abg. Moser: That's why we have to get on with traffic!]] We will not be able to answer this before these countries, nor will we be able to demand it from them. [[Abg. Moser: Please talk about traffic!]] And because it's already been spoken of by the USA today: Mr Minister, it was still possible to hear yesterday evening that the Republicans in Parliament in the Senate opposed a corresponding written agreement. – You'll see what the whole thing in Paris really brings. I believe that in total, we must look at Austria: the Austrian industry, the Austrian jobs – this means dealing responsibly with it. [[Abg. We have to get the Austrian climate...!]] – Of course, we also have to pay attention to the Austrian climate, but one thing is quite certain: With a clear deindustrialization, we will not bring Austria further into the next century. [[Abg. We'll build a climate fence!]] Mr Federal Minister, with what you have carefully outlined, I am not dissatisfied in the first approach. See that Austria is not alone a pioneer, but that we are on the road in the overall association of industrialized countries, and see that, above all, we can continue to develop with all Austrian regulations – without any international penalty payments, but only in Austria – according to our previous progress. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e7139	The next item is Mrs. Club Chairman Dr. Glavischig-Piesczek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e7160	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I am not quite sure whether my previous speaker has denied climate change or not, but one thing is certain: that he has misrepresented the positive development that a very important industry and industry has taken in Austria, namely the area of green jobs and the eco-sector, which is among the few who have not only remained stable in the years of crisis but have grown. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Then you should have listened, then they might have understood!]] And you have just applauded that you want to abolish this now in Upper Austria. That's a fact and it's very sad! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The good news is that we can be quite optimistic that progress will be made at this climate conference in Paris, and that will be a start for an agreement, and this is certainly not very easy in the face of 195 participating states. However, the bad news is that Austria is one of the states that are at risk of this positive conclusion, due to three very specific problems – and it is regrettable that the Minister for the Environment does not deal specifically with the points that we are now having to discuss, namely as regards the budget for climate protection instruments, including the awareness of the responsibility of Austria within the framework of the Climate Fund, climate financing towards developing countries, and that Austria is a problem country in all these points. We do not want to accept this and want to talk to you about these points today in all urgency. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I'll start with the first point: Trust in negotiations is quite relevant. Trust is something quite relevant and credibility is something quite relevant. – Austria, and we all know this, has not achieved the Kyoto target announced in the 19th century. Contrary to all the demands of your predecessors, Austria will achieve the Kyoto target, it was so that the Austrian taxpayers finally had to buy half a billion more allowances because it failed to achieve the reduction targets at the federal level in terms of climate and energy policy. [[towards the Federal Minister Rupprechter]] On the contrary: CO2 emissions have even increased. The second is that Austria is now one of the four countries in the European Union, which have been betrayed, which the European Environment Agency has now clearly pointed out again before the Paris Climate Change Conference: We are not with the countries that will reach the next goal by 2020 – and that is really blamable! We have been moving to about the same level since the 1990s. For 30 years now, Minister for the Environment – for 30 years! – there is no relevant progress, and then as the Federal Government you present a budget with the announcement: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber]] We are reducing 8,000 jobs over the next five years, we are investing half a billion less in the field of climate protection instruments! – If this were to be done by a company, there would be a call from the social partners, there would be a call in politics, and we would do everything we could to prevent that. But that is the case at the moment in the budget! [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Right!]] They shorten the relevant instruments. The check for thermal rehabilitation is de facto halved. This was one of the instruments that you celebrated from the point of view of economic policy, from a labour market policy point of view, a year and a half ago. Against the background of high unemployment and job security, which brings thermal rehabilitation, it is really terrible – terrible! They're cutting people off the job. The climate fund, with so many communities working with so many mayors, will be cleared out from €115 million to €80 million, and these are all projects that have added value to regional value that employ local craftsmen, local spenglers, local energy technicians. That's where you're cutting. They're cutting off jobs! And also in the field of environmental promotion – especially in the case of farms that already finance two thirds of the money itself – the conversion to renewable energies is reduced once again. That's where I ask you: With this balance sheet, with this credibility balance you drive to Paris and believe that you are not a clot on the leg of the international climate negotiations? – You are sure, and this is very, very bad because Austria has a very high environmental awareness, the population wants to do much more, but the essential instruments are now cleared by you and the Minister of Finance. That is very, very unfortunate! Finally, this is the credibility of Austria's reliability when something has been promised: There are countries that are taking the problem, which many parts of the world now face, very seriously. We should also do this when it comes to more than 200 million people by the end of the century – over 200 million people! – are threatened by drought, by floods, by hunger, and then finally by war conflicts and escape, for these are the consequences. If there are promises of the industrialized countries where Austria says: Yes, we're participating, we're helping you! –In 2009, this was promised – and then Austria has 25 million dollars at five years, whereas other countries such as Luxembourg provide 140 million dollars a year, where countries like Spain provide 160 million dollars a year, I believe that is not a sum that we can be proud of. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Painful!]] [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] One last sentence: The money would be available in the Ministry of the Environment. You take €200 million a year from the proceeds of climate certificates, only let this side of the house, the environmental house, clear out and invest it not in climate protection, and that is absolutely unfortunate.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e7261	The next item is the speech by Mr Pock. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e7282	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! I am really very surprised by the debate on climate change. That's one of the central issues. If one now looks beyond domestic policy and asks what will happen to us over the next hundred years, it is actually always mentioned among the top five topics. We have government parties, according to which everything is good, and we have opposition parties, according to which everything is bad, and there is no means between them. I want to start with the positive things here. I have great confidence in the Austrian line as regards COP21 as regards the negotiating position in Paris. Why? – Because Austria has made some progress. [[Abg. Brunner: What is the Austrian position?]] I would like to give an example, Mrs Brunner, before you cry out: For example, we succeeded in decoupling economic growth from emissions. This is the basis for our economy to flourish and at the same time we can pay attention to the climate. At the same time, we are on the path to achieving our 2020 targets, and the 2030 proposals are also a good thing to do. – These are the positive things. Mr Rupprechter, you said you were going to talk about the Green Climate Fund, and I will do the same. There is an essential point – and I think that should also be asked by the Federal Government: Why does Germany increase the contribution from € 1 billion to € 4 billion? Why does France increase its contribution to the Green Climate Fund from € 1 billion to € 5 billion? We need to think about the problems we face, both nationally and internationally. Nationally, it is easily outlined: If we reach the goal of a maximum of 2 degrees of global warming worldwide, this means 4 degrees of global warming for the inner alpine space. This means massive avalanches, munitions, it has to be blocked in many inner alpine areas valleys – this is also the case in the state-of-the-art report. That means we have to evacuate population parts in Tyrol, Vorarlberg, Salzburg, in the Salzkammergut. Where people live today, people will not live in the future, even if we reach our goals. This means high costs for the economy and for many individuals, of course for the insurance companies. What does this mean internationally? – And that is, I think, one of the many motivations at the Green Climate Fund: If we continue to do so and do not provide sufficient financial support to developing countries, we will, the World Bank has calculated this by means of several forecasts, bring 100 million people in Africa and Southeast Asia back to the most extreme poverty by 2030. This means for these people that the last cow died, that the land is barren or flooded. This means – just as we are now discussing this at the crisis spots in Afghanistan, Syria and everywhere else – that we already know what is happening, namely that 2030 is the next wave of refugees, because the basis of life is destroyed. Whoever can no longer feed his family seeks a new perspective and will get on the way – come what may. This is one of the many motivations that also employ Germany and France, and Austria is indeed a final European light. One last look, not only at the challenges, but also at the opportunities: What are Austria's possibilities? – Austria – also because of the smallness of our country – would have the opportunity to actually take on a pioneering role. We are not, as the Greens say, the final light, we are not the stepchild within the European Community, but we are not, as the Federal Minister says, pioneers. For example, if we set clear signals when we increased the Green Climate Fund – and you know I made proposals on how to finance it without burdening the State Bank – there would also be the opportunity to achieve a clear pioneering role in environmental technology and the environment. We currently have almost 170 000 employees in this field, and unlike many other sectors, we have a slight growth. We could actually transfer the image to our companies in the areas of environmental technology, energy efficiency, photovoltaics, but also in the field of consulting developing countries – if we are a national state of credibility – and achieve a clear impetus for the Austrian economy. The last appeal – and I believe this is really important – is: Environmental policy is not just the solution to problems we have today, environmental policy is to think about how tomorrow's world looks, and to solve the problems before they even arise. And I demand that from the Austrian government. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e7319	Next, Mr. Klubobmann Ing. Lugar speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e7340	High house! If you follow the debate here a little bit – I have been following the debate for many, many years, since I used to be environmental spokespersons here in Parliament – you know, there is a creed that is constantly going around between the parties and that is also believed by the people. This belief states that renewable energies are expensive, and if we actually manage to switch from fossil energy sources to renewable energy sources, then this will cost the population a lot of money and be bad for the economy because it can no longer rely on cheap energy. This belief has been true for decades, and I am going to address why there is this creed. But if you look at the facts – I have made this effort, and you too should look at the facts – you realize that the global direct funding of fossil energy is €333 billion. These are just the direct promotions that are being distributed in order to keep the fossil energy sources artificially cheap on the market. That is, states invest money to press down the price artificially and thus make the other forms of energy unattractive. If you calculate the total cost – there is a current study – you can see that €5.3 trillion a year is spent worldwide, so that fossil energy sources do not disappear from the market, because they could already be pushed out by other forms of energy. This is more money than we spend worldwide for the whole health sector. If you keep these numbers in mind, you wonder why you do that. Why are the states directly spending €333 billion and why are the total cost, the total subsidies 5,3 trillion? – The answer is relatively simple: This is not about the fact that renewable energies are not competitive – they are competitive; they are competitive, there are many examples – but the reason is that renewable energies are decentralised. In other words, there are not large corporations – of which there is only one handful worldwide – that dominate the oil, gas and coal business, but the renewables are decentralized. The renewables can be developed by any state. There, too, countries like Austria, which have no oil or almost no oil and almost no gas, can mix firmly, and that is not what you want. - That's the point. We have the problem that the USA, China, Russia, Saudi Arabia and these players do not really want them to lose their good business, which brings hundreds of billions of dollars each year, and that is why everything is done to eliminate competition – we know how it works. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] We know how it works when those who have money and want to keep the money will eliminate competition; there even war can be waged. That's how it works in our world. But the interest we have is that we become independent that we produce our own energy. And then it always says: That's too expensive, we can't afford it! Let's go away from climate change, let's go away from the interests of the world community, let's go to Austrian interests. There is a good example of this not even working here in Austria. Many have blamed me: Don't talk so much about the world community, don't say so much about the United States, the oil mults!, so we're talking about Austria, we're talking about what we can do in Austria. There is a good example: I was an environmental speaker in Parliament five years ago, and the VERBUND has approached me and has said that he wants to make a capital increase of € 1 billion, of which half a billion of taxpayers should be plated. [[Call the ÖVP:... to which party?]] I told the VERBUND at the time if we should agree, then tell me what you want to do with the money. The VERBUND has said: We're building a large gas power plant, because that's the future! I asked: Why don't we do decentralized biomass with cogeneration? That would be future-looking, we would keep value added in Austria, we would create jobs here, and that would have future. The VERBUND has said: If we did, we would probably lose a double-digit million in profits. – This is the problem: The union would lose profits – but we as an economy, we as a parliament, we as the Austrian people would benefit from jobs, from the security of the future and from independence – and that is why it has not been done. Looking back, you can see that these 500 million € were a grave. In the meantime, this gas power plant has been shut down, it is not economic. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] That's exactly how it works in this country: The government takes care of what is good for Austria and for the people.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e7396	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Greiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e7418	Madam President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Let me follow the remarks made by Mr Hannes Weninger, who has just taken up the negotiating positions of the countries participating in this climate summit. What is the central objective of this conference? - It reads: Reduction of global warming and CO2 emissions. The Paris conference is characterised by the fact that major players will participate, including the EU, the USA, Russia, China and Japan. My colleague mentioned it briefly: Austria will also show negotiation diplomacy and prove negotiating skills at this conference. I would like to take the time to address both European and national aspects at this current hour. For example, Austria has been very committed to defining the EU climate change target, which is: 40 percent reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030. How can Austria meet these requirements? – Mein Ladies and gentlemen, one thing is clear: We do not want to achieve this objective by increasing emissions trading, buying it more strongly, we will achieve this objective by means of internal Austrian measures; there is broad consensus in this House as well. What do I mean by that? – We have, for example, adopted the Climate Change Act, which states that greenhouse gas emissions will be reduced by 16 percent between 2013 and 2020. This means, for example, a savings potential of 6.5 million tonnes for the energy and industry sectors. Let me stay in the energy sector! It is gratifying to note that 23 percent more electricity is generated from wind power and photovoltaics. This shows very clearly how useful it is to promote alternative energies. Another measure from Austria: the Energy Efficiency Act. By 2020, annual energy consumption is to be reduced from 1 100 to 1 050 petajoule – that is to say, annual energy consumption. What's special about this? – Energy consumption is decoupled from economic growth, i.e. economic growth increases, but energy consumption remains constant. Let me also mention what measures are being taken in the federal states to reduce energy consumption. There are numerous research projects, think of the e5 awards of regions, of communities. In fact, there is a competition of the best ideas, and regions are knighting for which they can become the first energy authoritative. Let me stay with the federal states: Spatial planning, building renovations, urban transport. By Transport, for example, provides for a savings potential for CO2 emissions of 21.7 million tonnes, which is a significant amount. Here I can mention one of the many measures – I bring an example from Styria –: There will be two new S-Bahn lines in operation next year. That means: Transport away from the road to the rail, strengthening the economic location and attractiveness for the region. [[Abg. Moser: Thank God...! But two S-Bahns...!]] Finally, allow me to take a look at the local level, where there are numerous initiatives to bring Austria closer to the target of climate change: E-mobility initiatives, e-car sharing, rental models or district heating connections with regional operators. [[Assured by the Members of Parliament, Mr Schieder and Mr Wenninger.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If we manage to pursue a determined and consistently sustainable energy policy from the great international policy to our communities, we can achieve the defined climate change objectives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e7470	The next item is Mrs. Dr.ck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e7492	Madam President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Deimek, I may join you with the exception: Wolfram von Eschenbach also speaks of vineyards in Erfurt, but the biggest challenge of the next decades is to reduce the greenhouse effect. The direct link between the concentration of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere and global warming is beyond dispute, except for some FPÖ delegates. Yes, there were climate changes in history, but it is true that human actions accelerate these changes and, above all, reinforce them. The global CO2 situation shows that China with 26.4 percent and the USA with 17.7 percent of the global CO2 emissions is the main cause of the greenhouse effect. On the other hand, Germany is 2.2 percent and Austria 0.23 percent. If one assumes that 1.2 billion people in this world do not have access to energy and the world population will rise from 7 billion to 9.3 billion people, according to Professor Rose, demand for energy will increase by 30 to 60 percent by 2050. Global warming would rise from 3.2 degrees to 5.4 degrees, and especially the USA, China, Russia and India must make massive efforts to fix an increase to a maximum of 2 degrees, but the development in these countries goes in a completely different direction. India is growing to 1.3 billion inhabitants, the average income in China is currently 300 € per month, and these countries are also striving to reach our standard of prosperity. Unfortunately, in their economic development, they rely on very different measures, less on renewable energy, more on nuclear energy and, above all, on massive coal mining. [[Abg. Brunner: This is more than cynical!]] It is estimated that coal reserves are available for another 1 300 years, but the US also has sufficient oil and shale gas resources. These countries in particular belong to a global climate agreement. Mr Lugar, you are obviously ill-informed, because in Austria, over the last ten years – with the exception of 2010 – greenhouse gas emissions have fallen continuously. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lugar.]] A decrease of 13.9 percent in economic growth of 11.1 percent shows that our climate action is effective. Austrian companies are exemplary in energy efficiency, environmental protection, and the hundreds of submissions to the climate protection price prove that our economy is well aware of the responsibility. Reindustrialisation in Europe and the expansion of industry in Austria require safe and cost-effective supply. Even though colleague Glavischnig-Piesczek has suggested from the Greens that the Green Jobs will replace everything: That's not true! A study in Upper Austria shows that green jobs cannot compensate for the loss of industrial jobs. That is why it is important that we do not drive the energy-intensive industry out of Austria, because these deportations do not solve the problem, but they present us with other, even more difficult challenges. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber]] As a study by KPMG on the industrial state number one shows, integration of climate protection and industry is the best variant and also ensures 5,000 new jobs; other variants would not do so. Our businesses are aware of the responsibility, but they expect support and recognition instead of punishment. Clearly, an international climate agreement is important, but with equal rights and obligations for all states to ensure fair competition. The Road to Paris must be run at the same level by all states. In this sense: All right, Minister of State!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e7540	The next item is the report by Mr Rauch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e7562	Thank you, Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Climate protection has always existed, as has climate change. The annual UN Climate Change Conference is held this year in Paris; last year it was in Lima, the years before that in Warsaw, Cancún, Copenhagen, Bali, Nairobi, and, and,. The results can be found, only: They won't be found! Already past conferences have shown that only a lot has been spoken, but nothing reasonable has come out of it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wenninger.]] We criticise a planned agreement that Austria is again committed to an international agreement, which will once again result in criminal payments and burdens for Austria. States such as the United States, Canada or India do not adhere to this agreement and are on the rise in advance before the case of sanctions. This UN climate conference has now become a toothless tiger; only hot air has been produced, and this time hot air in Paris. At the same time, emissions trading flourishes. The term “trading period” alone is already significant, as there are exchange-like states, billions of euros flow to NGOs, without merely being serving climate protection. The participants in this climate conference are also exciting. This year President Putin is taking part. On the one hand, the European Union imposes economic sanctions against Russia on behalf of the USA, on the other hand, Austria is on the front line in the EU sanctions. National economies and agriculture suffer – this has massive consequences – and at the same time have billions of losses. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In this context there was last Monday in the Hofburg in Vienna, invited by the OMV, the OMV energy talks, which Director-General Seeel has conducted with Altkanzler Schröder. Director-General Soul has called for uniform, global energy standards – and one can agree – and thought of financial sanctions for the economy in non-compliance – financial sanctions in the form of higher taxes. We strongly reject a sanctions policy, wherever it comes from. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Freedom of the environment instead of continuing the current path with financial burdens means: We want concrete targets for renewable energy and a discharge by calling for half the rate of VAT on renewable energy sources. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Half the rate of VAT is intended to create incentives to make it tasty to the public, to switch to photovoltaics, to wind power plants, to solar thermal energy, and thereby to produce energy autarchy in the sense of climate protection, while avoiding the use of fossil fuels and fuels. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] These are concrete solutions, Mr Federal Minister, and there you are called for. They must significantly renegotiate budgetary policy in the environmental field; She's the one who's got it. She's the one who's got it. environmental policy in Austria is rather stepmotherly. Only with conferences, without concrete measures, will we easily fail – and you too! The future belongs to electromobility. In Austria, we have the opportunity to supply the people in this country with hydropower, wind power and, above all, photovoltaic and solar thermal energy – renewable energy – away from coal power plants and nuclear power plants. Our goal must be to provide energy for all citizens in this country – for all citizens in that country! – to make it quiet and to ensure that it remains manageable. This requires incentives on the part of the government and also on European soil. We reject global emissions trading and the financing of so-called environmental promotions abroad. New international agreements represent a factual redistribution of significant funds and a hidden foreign aid without the possibility of control. Environmental protection is home protection!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e7647	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Brunner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e7668	Madam President. Mr Umweltminister! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Seers! The theme of the current hour is “Road to Paris – on the way to an international climate agreement” in Paris. I thought that we could talk about what this path looks like, what the Austrian contribution can be and what the chances for an agreement in Paris are. To be honest, I have not heard much of this in this debate. [[call to the FPÖ.]] I'm going to try to do it anyway. It means “Current Hour”, so what is the current situation? – We are currently experiencing that many people are on the run, we are experiencing – that has been described – heat records, records of extreme weather events, and we know that if we fail to control climate change, many, many, many, many more people will have to escape in the future. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler]] We also know that we are the last generation that can still manage to curb this climate change. This is a major challenge, which is a great responsibility, including from all of us here in the house, to address this challenge. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In two and a half weeks, the next climate conference will begin in Paris. I am cautiously optimistic this time – and I share it with the Minister for the Environment – that a success can be achieved there. There has already been movement in Lima last year, and there is now much movement in the run-up to many nations on both important issues: on the question of greenhouse gas reduction, which is necessary so that we can achieve this 2-degree objective and reduce global warming, and also on the issue of climate financing. For the spectators: What is climate financing? – It is about the fact that the industrial nations that have caused climate change in Copenhagen in 2009 have offered financial support to developing countries that cannot but are most affected by this climate change. 100 billion US dollars were promised in 2009, so far this promise has not been fulfilled. We've already heard: Climate negotiations are a matter of confidence. All nations must commit themselves, and promises must be fulfilled so that this confidence can be maintained and an agreement can be reached. The French President Hollande has said that, without fulfilling the promise of these 100 billion US dollars, there will be no agreement in Paris, which is why Greens of Austrian contribution is so important to us. Where are we now in Austria? – It has already been mentioned that we have ambitious targets and that greenhouse gases have been reduced in recent years. – Yes, that’s so, but that’s because Austria’s goals are exactly the year in which we had the highest CO2 emissions ever. This has nothing to do with ambition! We also have reports from the European Environment Agency that Austria will miss out on these zero targets. The OECD, which, I believe, is not a green organisation or an environmental organisation, has proposed that we should remember measures in transport such as mineral oil tax and so on. – That is, the Austrian climate failure is happening internationally, and that is extremely embarrassing! What does this Federal Government do? - She's cut short! In its budget, all climate protection instruments are cut short. This means more CO2 emissions, less investment in the eco-industrial sector and less than 8,000 jobs in this area. [[Federal Minister Rupprechter: We are setting the green limits!]] Mr Minister, look at the numbers of your own institutions. Then you will see where the Austrian climate balance is! We have reached the low point of Austrian climate policy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] Where are we currently on the issue of climate financing? – I mentioned it: The crucial question for Paris is that Austria has pledged € 25 million in four years. We were awarded the negative price at the last climate conference. If something does not change rapidly over the next two weeks, Austria is one of the countries that send the signal: We don't care if there's this agreement or not. – This is unacceptable! We Greens will also talk to the Minister for Finance. Federal Minister! Mr Umweltminister! Fight with us to convince the Minister of Finance to make a contribution in this context too! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Many countries are moving. The EU will have a key role to play in this climate conference. At climate conferences, however, it always needs pioneers who show that climate change can be protected and yet live in prosperity. Which country should play this role, if not Austria? We have all possibilities, all resources, all technologies to do so. I am extremely sorry that Austria leaves out this opportunity! In this respect, there is an international responsibility, but also a huge chance for Austria, which does not use this federal government. In conclusion: We will work to ensure that Paris succeeds! The probability is as high as rare before. I will go there optimistically, and I hope that when we come back, we will discuss how we bring Austrian climate policy back to the fore. But we need an independent, strong and committed Ministry of the Environment, Climate Change and Energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e7738	The next item is Mrs Gamon's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e7759	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I wish you all the best. Look at the audience gallery for a good day! Helmut Schmidt once said: “Great things are not moving at summit meetings, but are preventing worse.” In 1988 it was agreed in Toronto that it would be extremely urgent to do something to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by more than 50 percent by 2050 and that a 20 percent reduction would be necessary as a first step by 2020. – I think we can say now: We'll never win this! I believe that one can predict that this first, incredibly important goal will certainly not be achieved in 2020. On the whole, we must agree that not much has moved since then. But we often talk about costs now and wonder what impact this has on our economy and what cuts we may have to make personally in our own lives in order to live more sustainablely. In my opinion, however, we also need to talk about the cost of the next generation and what costs the next and next generation will have to bear when people grow up in another world. The world will be different from the one in which we now live, and we must therefore also ask ourselves what price people will have to pay for political responsibilitylessness or for a lack of political will. What do we take of the next and next generation through our non-activities, and what do we do, what might we not even be able to do? In my opinion, climate policy is also a good example to take a look at how we see policy. This is about character or the lack of character in politics. In this context, we are dealing with measures that we are setting out, whose effects we will no longer experience. But for me, politics is also, because it is about things that may not affect us anymore, but the people who come after us. That is why, as a politician, we must now also have an intrinsic motivation to take such measures. – This is the responsibility we have! We are above average affected by climate change in Austria. For example, the climate change report 2014 has also highlighted that urgent action in this area is incredibly important and that we are doing too little so far. There are, of course, good approaches, but it's about that we don't really get to do it. It's just too little to say that we're a pioneer here because we're still going too ambitious. I believe that Austria can very well show how it really is, but there is still a lot to be done so that we can say that of ourselves! We all notice what climate change means for us. There are more so-called tropical days where it has over 30 degrees and the nights become really unbearable. This is also a problem for people in everyday life. This is problematic for older people or newborns. – Let’s look at our pastors as the most plausible example of this! A postcard is no longer the same as it was 50 years ago! There have obviously been changes. We can also look back at 20 years of UN climate change conference. – It must be said honestly that 20 years of political failure is documented because we have been working for 20 years on a failed attempt to reverse a trend that has not yet occurred. In order to move something in this regard, there is a real lack of political will to enforce, but also enforceability and also honesty in relation to the whole, because you really have to start with yourself. I'm so sorry. There will really be a need for sanctions. If otherwise it is not possible to do something, then no way passes through it. This international etiquette, which we always wish for in climate policy, is a little bit like the administrative reform of the global community, so if you know that if you do not do anything, you can get quite unforeseeable consequences on one, but you have already become a bit cynical and wonder: Is it even possible that something really is going on here? – But we must also have hope and confidence that this can happen, because otherwise we must all ask ourselves together: What are we doing here? Climate policy is generation policy and therefore future policy. Let’s look at what children can’t have in the future if we don’t do anything now! – Holidays on the farm may not have the children in the future. Austria could become Tuscany. That sounds nice, but it's not! Or: A first ski course at the age of five is also cancelled. Maybe you could try that in a hall with false snow! Another example: What might the next generation love to have with us as much as we have a smartphone with us these days? This may be a mosquito spray, because the tiger mosquito is also day-active, and it will be on the road in the future. Perhaps the children of the future will have to give up on the beloved schnitzel at some point in time, because meat in production causes more greenhouse gas emissions. – But perhaps the friends of the red wine are happy, because instead of Green Veltliner we may be able to produce Brunello in Austria in the future! All of this may be overly well formulated now, but I think these examples are necessary so that you can also be aware of what will happen to you. In this respect, we must do something. That's our responsibility. We can't do everything right, but let's start!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e7826	The next item is the motion for a resolution by Mrs Weigerstorfer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e7847	Madam President. Minister! Dear High House! At this point I would particularly like to welcome a group of young students who have found the way here to the Parliament. Welcome! [[General condolences.]] I particularly welcome you for this, because of what we are talking about today, of course, especially concerns you. The topic is “Road to Paris – on the way to an international climate agreement”. – I would say: Let us look together at what Austria contributes to this agreement! Well: A few steps have been taken, but unfortunately you also have to say that the way is still very, very long. Unfortunately, we have lost our former pioneering role, and we are now one of Europe's biggest climate sinners. We have already heard some flowering promises and many optimistic speeches today, which is also good. However, we must, of course, stick to the facts, and I would like to address a few of them now. Let us start with the budget cut in the environment: In the case of thermal renovation alone, half of this has been deleted, and I believe this is disastrous from an environmental point of view, because the budget reduction is causing an increase of 2.5 million tonnes of CO2, and so it is more than we have actually done by 2020 in terms of savings. However, this is not only from the environmental point of view. It is also very bad in terms of economic policy. – I would like to quote here: “A thermal refurbishment creates a win-win situation for the economy, environment and sanator... Each euro invested helps save energy, reduces CO2 emissions and creates higher economic growth and more jobs through additional orders.” – This is a quote from your homepage, Mr Minister, and therefore the budget reduction in this area is not quite understandable! To illustrate it a little: A total of 100 million were still ready for thermal renovation from 2009 to 2013. In 2014 there were no 90 million more, and now there are 10 million less, despite the quotation I have just mentioned. The report on the environmental investments of the Federal Government 2014 also shows that they had a value-added effect of €432 million and thus created 9 000 jobs. What we urgently need – in this respect, I believe, all of us agree – is a close-up between the economy and the environment, but with the support policy of oil boiler heating, that will definitely be nothing! Why there is no rethinking here, and above all there is no acting, is absolutely obscene to me! – Incidentally, this also confirms the WIFO and confirms that, only when Austria is dealing with a number of urgent reforms and regaining its environmental role, we can leave the economic critical trail again. The declared objective of the climate conference is a legally binding agreement to reduce greenhouse gases. Decisions alone – we all know – are too few for that. In 2009, the G20 summit agreed to phase out subsidies for oil, gas and coal. But you know what happened? – The subsidies have risen since then! In 2015, the G7 summit agreed to limit global warming to two degrees. According to the fact-finding of the Climate Fund – whose funds were also removed by about a third – this means that 80 percent of the coal reserves and one third of the world's oil reserves are not used. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] What we need for this is a truly sound plan. The steps that have been taken so far are good, but the way is – as I said – still very, very long. I would ask you to act very carefully with regard to the young people, and I wish you all a successful climate conference in Paris. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e7923	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[10:34:33]] Current European hour
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e7945	We now come to the current European hour on the subject: ‘Current refugee challenges require European solutions’ I welcome the Chancellor and the members of the Federal Government. The following Members of the European Parliament were nominated for participation in the current hour of Europe: Social Democrats: Eugen Freund, ÖVP: May. Othmar Karas, FPÖ: Harald Vilimsky, Green Club: Michel Reimon, Club of NEOS: Dr. Angelika Mlinar. I also welcome Members to the European Parliament in our midst. [[General condolences.]] However, I would also like to inform you that today, at 3 p.m. in Brussels, a meeting of the European Parliament is taking place and that the Members have therefore announced that they will have to leave our meeting at 11.40 a.m. at the latest. We are going into the debate. As First of all, Mr Klubobmann Mag has spoken. Arbitrator. I would like to draw your attention to this: 10 minutes speaking time. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e7999	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen from the Austrian Parliament and Austrian colleagues from the European Parliament! Around the world, 60 million people are fleeing, half of them children, and a good part of adults are women. Only a small part or part of it leaves home. 40 million of these 60 million are fleeing their own countries and have had to leave their villages and cities. Of the 20 million who also had to leave their countries, more than three quarters have sought and found refuge in the neighbouring countries, and as the geographical situation suggests, these countries are also countries with major economic, social problems, i.e. developing countries. These countries bear the main burden of the global refugee drama. In Austria, some 65 000 asylum applications were filed in 2015, this year. These are processed, and probably not every applicant will actually get asylum, but a good part of it. 440 000 people have been driven through Austria and moved on to other countries, namely where their families are, such as Germany or Sweden. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nice.]] In order to look at the whole in a larger framework or in a comparison framework: During the Hungarian crisis in 1956, 180 000 people came to Austria and were also admitted by Austria at the time, although Austria was in a far worse situation both politically and economically than today. Not only were we poorer, of course it was also a great fear that this political commitment to the Hungarian crisis in relation to the State Treaty for Austria's neutrality and the like would be a difficult burden, because it was refugees from the Eastern Bloc. Nevertheless, one year after we achieved the State Treaty, these were taken up by us, because we decided at the time, as well as today, that human rights are of great importance to us and for us are an absolute reason that people can be admitted to us. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In 1968, 162,000 Czechs and Slovaks came to Austria, and at that time Austria showed great willingness to help. Now from the international dimension also to what is now urgently to be done in Austria: We currently have 20 degrees and a warm November, as we only experience it every seven to ten years, but we still know: Winter is coming, and we urgently need sufficient winterproof accommodation and quarters. Not least yesterday, the United Nations of Austria called for this. From the beginning to September 2015 – just to put this into relation once again – we have 6,5 asylum seekers in Austria with 1 000 inhabitants. In Sweden there are 7.6, in Germany 3.8. We are therefore also one of the countries in Europe that have taken up the majority of refugees per capita. In order to create sufficient permanent accommodation, the government, the Ministry of the Interior and also the Austrian federal states are required. In October of this year, six federal states out of nine did not provide a sufficient number of quarters. – To mention the quotas here: In Burgenland, only 94 percent, in Carinthia only 96 percent, in Upper Austria only 93 percent, in Salzburg only 94 percent, in Styria only 96 percent, and in Tyrol only 92 percent. Quartiere is missing, just to say that: in Burgenland 110, in Carinthia 149; in Upper Austria there are 627 quarters that are missing, in Salzburg 197, in Styria 287 and in Tirol 385 places. I say this because it is independent of party politics. In all the federal states we have different forms of coalition: black-green, black-red, red-black, multiple, black-blue – all variants that exist. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: There is also red-blue!]] However, Austria's federal states are also called upon to help urgently to ensure that we are sufficiently... [[Calls at FPÖ and ÖVP:There is also red-blue!]] – I don’t know, maybe you don’t know where you’re ruling, so you can find out more. [[Call the FPÖ: You don't know!]] It is here that the federal states are invited to participate once, so that we have sufficient quarters. Secondly, we also need emergency accommodation where we can accommodate people who are on their way through Austria for a winter break, safe and also human until they can take off the journey. We need, thirdly, waiting zones where people, when they are waiting for their journey and arrive in Austria, can also be supplied medically, humanly, with food, with new clothes and the like. We must also ensure an orderly entry and transit in Austria. This worked well in Nickelsdorf, for example. In this context, I would also like to thank all those who are very active in this work and many of whom come to the limits of the perishable, since this condition is now very stressful. Here I would also like to stress: Of course, we also need more police officers, and I am very glad that in the last years of the Faymann government, the staff in the Austrian police could be increased by several thousand again, after there has been a significant decline in the previous years – because we need these employees, not only for these tasks, but also for these tasks. Even travelers are challenging, but it has gone well – if I think only of what the volunteers, the auxiliary organizations such as the Samaritans, the Volkshilfe, the Red Cross, the Caritas and the like have done, but also the employees of the Austrian Federal Railways, who are also committed to the present day. Fourthly, however, I also believe that we must address the issue of integration. We need to open up language courses and integration opportunities to those people, just as they are being discussed in Germany, with opportunities for asylum, with a positive asylum perspective, even during the process, and not only after the completion of the procedure! [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Korun.]] We must also deal with the question of the labour market, but in turn with discretion and wisdom. One cannot simply open the labour market so that cheap workers are available, but one has to provide the people, the asylum-seekers or perhaps even in the process, the asylum seekers, with a check of competence, provide qualification measures, find out what qualifications they come to Austria with, and what new skills and additional courses they can, if necessary, become active in their old qualifications. However, we also need joint efforts at the level of the European Union. The discussion cannot be that within the Schengen area each country is shut down and fenced down, but we need the rules at the external borders of the European Union, which are the hotspots and first-guest centres. We need a fair distribution of quotas between all the countries of the European Union, including on the basis of safe human rights standards. And I think we must also take seriously into account that the Dublin system, as it has so far been, does not bring the optimal answers and therefore we need a successor system. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But we must not let those Member States in Europe who do not want to share this objective in the common solidarity. Therefore, I also support the course of the Federal Chancellor that they say: Those countries that refuse to make a fair contribution in the debate cannot expect our solidarity in the form of net contributions and contributions in the future. In Europe too: Solidarity among the Member States is not a one-way road, and that is why we need to discuss these questions too. However, I also welcome the fact that Austria at international level has finally begun to take over more money for UNHCR, Syria funds and World Food Programmes. At €26 million has now finally been increased. I think this is an important step because we have to address these questions at the root and most likely have to deal more closely with development cooperation and all these issues in the future. The people who are on the run need perspectives, training opportunities, need something to eat, need a roof over their heads. But above all, they need one, and that is peace. Peace is the basic requirement that we fight the flow of refugees at the root, and therefore I am glad that this Syria conference is finally under way, and that we are finally talking about how to fight the cause in this region. The question is certainly a difficult one, but Austria offers the ground for discussion, and I think it is right and good that Austria is the venue for these Syria talks at international level. Now, ladies and gentlemen, in the next hour, when we discuss and debate the challenges, the handling, the large number of people seeking protection, when we talk about fortresses, boats, routes and all these questions, we should not forget one thing: We're talking about people here! We are talking about people in need here, and I would therefore be glad if we could carry out the debate as objectively as possible, because it is about people at the end, and we should not forget that!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e8090	Mr Faymann spoke on a preliminary opinion. Mr Bundeskanzler, your speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e8112	Madam President. Dear Members of the Government! Honourable Members! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If, this afternoon, the European Union's government leaders meet with the African countries responsible, then only one question can be put to the fore: How can people improve their living conditions? Now we know that this is not such a simple matter where you write on a block five points, then make five hookers and the thing is done. The injustice in the world, terrible living conditions – often not enough to eat – and fear of violence and political persecution not only mark the picture in Africa. No, even in Syria and surrounding countries of this region, people are threatened to lose their lives. This is why international policy, enhanced cooperation for fairer living conditions and therefore for sustainable political solutions is so crucial. Nothing is more differentiated, but more politically important than finding and managing sustainable solutions to eliminate the real causes of flight. All we discuss within our borders or together with Germany is of course not sustainable and too late when we speak of escape. That is why, of course, the focus is on the following question, as the president of the club, Andreas Schieder, has just said: What can we do?, and also self-critically say that in questions of development aid and political commitment Austria is positive in some examples, but in others still has a lot of homework to do. That is why the only really right and sustainable answer is to eliminate the causes. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But, of course, we also have to deal with the question of what we do in parallel – not instead – at the same time with this sustainable policy, until we manage to work together in the world to ensure that no one has to be afraid of his life. So when we talk about how people who are fleeing today – where something has not worked because they had to flee – stay in their own country or in the region, we must have every political interest in the world to ensure that people there are treated decently in the region. This has to do with financial resources and political support. These financial resources have increased the European Union at a time when, of course, the EU budget also lacked money at all corners and ends, and more could be needed everywhere. This has been so in itself worldwide, but also in the EU budget, it is not that easy to push up these extra €2 to 3 billion in international policy to support camps and camps for refugees in the region to support the UN where it itself has too little resources – UNHCR, World Food Programmes – and all the gaps that are often discussed here in the house. Austria has also participated in the necessary additional national contributions. These national contributions as a complement are, of course, far from achieving a goal of what is really necessary in order to achieve this political, right demand, namely decent life in this region, in refugee camps. This also has to do with schools, with possibilities that go beyond the daily food needed. It also has to do with the question of political respect very quickly when we come to Turkey, also with recognition that someone who is a refugee can work. So that's not the way it's going to be. That's where we deliver some food and then they'll all stay there! – No, this is about living conditions and opportunities that require much more than what we have tried to do with € 2 to 3 billion in the area of UNHCR, World Food Programmes and other than European Union together – plus additional country contributions – and have already decided to implement several times. That's our job. At the same time, there is also a desire for €3 billion from Turkey, we are in a debate of €2 billion, and I believe that tomorrow afternoon we will also have some political frameworks that we need for the negotiations, namely, as we are supporting in Turkey, refugees who are in Turkey, because it is politically reasonable for all those who did not intend to come to Europe, who did not even want to live with us or in Germany, which only have gone away because they do not have the most necessary political and financial support there. Even there are the simple answers too short, we need a very deep discussion of the questions and answers, such as those we want to use in Turkey, also those we mean, refugees, because it is not a matter of paying something that comes where you want. Therefore, this is also an important task in the discussions and, above all, for those who are then operational, after our Council meetings, in the implementation. It is often true that there is an agreement in political decisions with an idea, but then in the operational implementation there is a gap, a gap, a gap. That is why this implementation is so crucial precisely to these political declarations of will. This applies to cooperation with Turkey, including in order to protect the external border with Greece, and on the other hand to support asylum law with distribution centres and legal entry opportunities as it deserves human rights. This common border security, the European Union's external border security requires in Greece a large number of measures that we and the Commission need to prepare like a package and jointly offer Greece. To complain every day about whether Greece is in a position or not – a lot of time is lost, but that does not help us. Greece has many tasks – building the state, building a tax authority and much more – so that Greece has also said they are willing to support them. I am convinced that these packages are necessary to create places with standards in the distribution centres with UNHCR. In fact, we are at the beginning. Now, of course, you can be ashamed of this and say: Well, “at the beginning,” have we been surprised by the refugee crisis? – No, it’s not about ridicule and humor, it’s not about helping, but about the fact that this work, this task of refugees, is actually a national task and not regulated in any treaty, as if it were a common European task. We have to do something that was not planned as a common European task. In fact, it would be the task of the countries of Italy and Greece, if the Dublin agreement were to be calculated, to do everything alone. From the construction of the European Union it is a question which was not described as Community law with all the needs I have briefly characterized. So it is about creating something common and solid where time runs out. It must therefore be swift, but it is something new, additional, which is called for, a more European policy. What is the alternative to the €1.8 million in resources we provide for the Africa Trust Fund, the €2 billion support for refugees in the region, the €2 billion support for the question in Africa, the many political discussions with visa freedom and all that we are discussing? What is the alternative to securing European external borders? – It is quickly characterized. If you do not secure the European external borders, you will need more than 10 000 kilometres of barbed wire in Europe so that everyone can properly fence. Then there will be a competition in fence construction, which is also easy to describe if you think it through: The fence must be a little higher than that of the neighbor, so that if someone chooses, he prefers to go over it with the neighbor. But after the fence is built and the barbed wire is not enough, it should be defended violently. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Do we know, Mr. Federal Chancellor?]] This is not so important to you, but I do not want this Europe to become a Europe of barber wires, in the direction of violence, neighborhood hostility and, ultimately, hatred. I want a Europe that protects the external borders, not fences within Europe. [[Congratulation with SPÖ, Greens and NEOS as well as the Abg. Pfurtscheller.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] That's what some find to laugh at because they're already taking the political little money into account in the elections, but I'm telling you [[new calls to the FPÖ]] Those who stand for order and humanity will be the strongest in Europe! That's what I'm relying on. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Pfurtscheller.]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] We will therefore, in these two days, in these basic political agreements, which I have tried to describe, yes, to try to do what is so essential in policy, namely to push ahead with implementation. But I do not hide from you that even in Austria everything has not been implemented. I've been given the statistics from yesterday, 10. November 2015: Only Vienna fulfils its quota, says the Ministry of the Interior, with 120.48 percent. In the rest of the federal states, between 0.43 percent, Lower Austria, and 12.92 percent, Tyrol is missing. That's a total of 3,223 places. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Members of the Government! I say this because this is a common task, where I know very well that I first of all have something to do with you all in the implementation: The fact that we demand from the European Union that it increases the pace is right, but I also ask you to support that we increase the pace for quartering in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e8190	I would draw attention to the fact that the following speakers have a speaking time of 5 minutes. First of all, the Member of the European Parliament is friend. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e8217	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! I particularly welcome the many young people at the visitor gallery, but of course also the older ones! [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Korun.]] Hussein Khalid – I didn't know him, you didn't know him – was 34 years old, he came from Qamishli in Syria. Together with his younger brother and friend, Hussein wanted to go to Germany to complete his archaeology studies there, but he doesn't get that far. He and the two others die a painful death of suffocation in that truck on 27 July. ==References====External links== I mention this because we often forget that there are individuals behind the refugee masses and flows of refugees, individuals with names, age, profession and pre-life. These are men, women and children who have no longer seen the possibility of surviving in their home country. Children who were torn out of sleep at night by shots. Women who are enslaved, men who are taken captive, tortured or who are in danger of serving an army that kills their own countrymen. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] We in Central Europe and especially in Austria have often shown that we can deal with phenomena that threaten to overwhelm us at the first moment. Just think of the Hungarian crisis or war in the Balkans! After that, over 100,000 refugees came to us – and almost all of them then stretched out their hands and helped them feel comfortable again. We will not be able to solve the current problem, ladies and gentlemen, with the left hand, but with right slogans not at all. That is also clearly stated once again! [[It was in favour of SPÖ and Greens as well as representatives of the ÖVP.]] In my opinion, ladies and gentlemen, we do not have a refugee crisis, but a distribution crisis, and the European Union is at stake here: In any event, the EU Council of the crisis has not yet grown. But before we point our finger to the others: How should it work in large Europe, even in small Austria, if it is difficult to convince only a few countries and communities that help is necessary, even if the help of one solves the problem of another? Transferred to Europe: Wouldn't there be a solution to ask the States to check out if they refuse to accept refugees, so they refuse to show solidarity? As a European parliamentarian, it was always important for me to point out that we have to put the problem – the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany has already mentioned it – at the root of the problem, so that everything must stop the war in Syria; I have formulated this for the first time in April in the European Parliament. But Europe must also be involved in this. Fortunately, this has also recognised Federica Mogherini, the new EU External Commissioner. Europe must contribute to resolving crises with a robust, decisive diplomatic response. And this is particularly true of a crisis that affects us as much as the conflict in Syria. I am glad that an important start is being made here in Vienna to end this war, but there is something else to be discussed here too, ladies and gentlemen, namely that the USA must also be aware of its responsibility for this war and that more refugees will have to take up their country. [[Conspicuousness with SPÖ and greens as well as with the Abg. Hagen.]] I was with the United Nations last week in New York. And UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon told me there that he would present an action plan in about a week, how to free Syria from the bondage of the war. I also agree with Ban Ki-moon when he says it is not the time to talk about the fate of President Assad. Now there are more pressing problems! We can, as many experts say, beat capital out of the and with the many people. But there are too many here in this House who want to beat only political change. Integration is not an insurmountable obstacle – ask Attila Doğudan, the founder of Do & Co! Ask Atıl Kutoğlu, the fashion designer! Ask the heart specialist Shapour Djavan!! Ask Sohyi Kim, the TV chef! To name just a few. [[Call the FPÖ:... Erdoğan!]] [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, Europe is facing major challenges. Yes, we still have a lot of work before us, not only to those seeking help, but also to the compatriots who are overwhelmed by what is due to them. Yes, we will not be able to solve the problems on the spot and not from today to tomorrow. Yes, if everyone in Europe finally recognizes the size of responsibility, then we will find a way too. And: No, Europe must not fail in this problem! It won't fail! We owe that to Hussein Khalid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e8287	Mr Klubobmann's next speech is Dr. Lopatka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e8309	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! We are – and we agree on this – indeed facing the biggest challenge the European Union has faced so far. The current flows of refugees are a challenge, especially – which has already been properly addressed today – for the 28 Heads of Government. The European Union, the Parliament and the Commission, even if they wanted to, could not meet this challenge. That is why it will be up to the Heads of Government to create what this European Union has always been doing, namely finding a compromise that, at the end of the day, focuses on solidarity. If this fails, the European Union project will at least be thrown back far and wide. The first priority must be what the legal situation is. And the legal situation is to protect the EU's external borders, to secure the EU's external borders. Only if this succeeds can the European Union project, as provided for in the Schengen rules, be maintained as a Union in which there are no internal borders. That is the crucial point! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We must not leave Greece and Italy alone in this respect, but the main burden will be there. Spain did it. When we look at the figures by 2005, we see that at the time Spain was in focus when it came to the flows of refugees, namely the Canary Islands. Spain has succeeded in finding a way to co-operate with Morocco, the result of which was that up to now some 2,500 refugees have come to Europe over Spain. They know the number of refugees coming from Turkey, which is well over 600 000 this year. This is the point on which we are now dealing: the effective protection of the EU's external borders. And if this effective protection of the EU's external borders fails, it must not be surprising if national measures are taken. That is what the Federal Chancellor has mentioned here, and this is not positive, but if it does not succeed, then the national states are required to do something. You can't put your hands in your pants and say: Yes, the EU has failed! We insist on fiction that, although there is an EU external border, in reality, there is no such thing, and that is why we have a huge problem! The population feels this, and I understand the concerns and fears of the people. And then there is the crucial point that we are prepared to take care of our responsibility and that, when there is a more severe situation, we protect our borders. Mr Reinhold Mitterlehner said it very clearly and clearly yesterday after the Council of Ministers – I can quote it here –: "The state must pay attention to its sovereignty, so we need more control and security measures at the borders. Austria too must now take appropriate measures.” [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] If the European Union does not become active at the external borders and results are not achieved in the talks with Turkey, emergency measures by the individual EU countries – we see this – are essential. This is not easy, but the only way to get hold of the situation here. Mr. Federal Chancellor, I have a specific request to you. Greece has received support from us, solidarity. They have been massively committed to this. I would ask you to work equally hard to ensure that Greece fulfils its task of securing the EU's external border. Greece is a NATO country. Greece still has a good military budget, has a manpower of 20,000 soldiers in the maritime forces, 30 000 in total. I read at the Hellenic Navy, 120 ships are available to the Greek army. I believe that they should be used to secure the EU's external border and thus show the will to secure the EU's external borders. [[Abg. Heinzl:... sinking boat?]] And I ask you, when you meet in Malta, to really remind Greece of its commitment to protect the EU's external borders. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: What for?]] We were in solidarity with Greece when Greece needed our help, and I now expect Greece to have this solidarity with the other European countries.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e8370	The next speaker is the Member of the European Parliament, Harald Vilimsky. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e8395	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! If one has heard the statements of the political red and black EU lobbyists, in particular the statements of the Austrian Chancellor, one can only say: Good night, Austria! because your calls for more Europe and even more Europe and more EU and even more EU are actually exactly the problem of the current misery. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwentner.]] You must finally recognize and note that the policy of the European Union is not the solution to the problems, but the cause of the problems! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Step back, you are not a worthy member of the European Union!]] There are examples of the recent past, which, documented in figures and facts, express exactly that. And before I come to the refugee crisis, just a word about the previous great crisis we had and still have, about the crisis in the European monetary area. By September, the headlines were full of the fact that the euro will collapse, that with the collapse of the euro, of course, our social stability will also be on the test stone, the pension system will be on the test. This enormous problem has not been solved, on the contrary, this problem has only been suppressed by an even greater problem, the migration storm from the Arabian Peninsula and from North Africa towards Europe. That is to say, Europe is no longer the solution here, but the development of European cooperation towards a European Community that we once had and that has also worked very well. The current model, viewed in numbers, data and facts, does not work! And you should finally take note of this! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It was precisely the person who was the leader of the European Union's policy, Angela Merkel in Germany, who had just caused this crisis right: with the invitation to everyone on the Arabian Peninsula and in North Africa, by saying: You can all come! And it was our Federal Chancellor Faymann who here – and this is not my appreciation, but that of the Bavarian Prime Minister, who said so – has acted as a sluice. In disregard of all the European rules that exist, up to 10,000 people are admitted to Austria every day and, without looking at who these people are, they have put them on the train or on the bus, where they come from, whether there is any threat potential from them, whether there are any reasons for escape at all – all that matters – and they have brought them to Germany, hoping that they will also be adopted there. The successor of Mr. Faymann, Mr. Kern, your future potential Chancellor, who said for humane reasons: Yes, I transport everyone!, now charge 15 000 € to the Austrian taxpayer,15 million €, apologies, 15 million € to the Austrian taxpayer. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] [[Call at the FPÖ: That would be beneficial!]] And I wonder if people who pay up to €10,000 to tugs in order to find the way to Europe should not have paid the €20 for the train ticket. That was and doesn't matter to you! It was Mr. Kern who said that we were transporting them, and now, at once, the taxpayer has to be held responsible. [[Abg. Kogler: These are the real concerns, yes!]] As you have called for more Europe today: There is also a recent example of where this more in Europe should have been a result, namely the European Union's decision to distribute 160 000 refugees accordingly to the Member States of the European Union. Do you know how many have been distributed to this day? - 135! 135 of these 160 000 that should have been distributed! It doesn't work at all corners and ends, and that must be said in all clarity! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There would have been a European solution that could have made sense, a solution of European states that... – Yes, listen! – That was already the subject of de Maizière to Mikl-Leiter, who promised that a first-time recording centre in the region would be made directly in the region, with UNHCR-Stan-dards, to explain who could and who could not make a start after the Geneva Convention. [[Abg. Kogler: What we're waiting for now!]] [[Abg. Kogler: Now you don't have much time! What is the solution?]] The European Union must create a satisfied zone in the region itself so that people can find protection there, but it cannot be reduced when it comes to people having money and medical care on the ground. It cannot be a solution to bring everyone to Europe, just as you want from the Greens and Social Democracy. That can't work, and it doesn't work either. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] From my point of view, there is only the possibility to go the way, to keep people in the region, to preserve the Australian character of Europe and to stop inviting millions of people from the Arabian Peninsula and from North Africa towards Europe, although neither the jobs nor the logistics nor the conditions are available for it. That can't work, it doesn't work, and it has to be finished! – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e8525	The next speaker is Michel Reimon, a member of the European Parliament. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e8547	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! A recent hour of social democracy on the subject of refugees, three social democrats in a row open the debate, and one can agree and applaud every speech. So we can probably imagine social democratic behaviour on the subject of refugees. The Federal Chancellor said: You have to help down there, you have to bring help there, but that's not so easy, there are no easy solutions. – That’s not true, there are very easy solutions, at the push of a button. There is a world food programme of the UN, in which food is distributed below for food cards. Austria has not paid a cent in this programme this year until September. [[Call the ÖVP: Don't vote!]] At the push of a button we could have helped down there, completely uncomplicated, we should only have been able to pass on what was promised by the Austrian side. If Austria had done so and had some other nations had done so, this year this refugee crisis would not have broken out to this extent. It starts with this failure of Austrian, European, national policy that this year has come to this refugee crisis. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I would like the words here to be followed by acts that such a policy, which has been announced, is actually being done. But social-democratic policy is not what has been said in three speeches today. Socio-democratic policy is rather what we see outside. For example, in Linz comrades stand and keep signs with the inscription: Nick, if you're against refugees!, high. [[Abg. New builder: From the SPÖ! That's right!]] In Eberau, Burgenland, an election campaign against refugee camps is held. In the last dozens of intensifications in asylum and foreign law, you have always voted in favour, even if it was not necessary to support a majority of black and blue. This is the real, real social-democratic policy away from the beautiful speeches you make here when it comes to remorse. That's the sad one. ==References== May sing They then call the International and call: “High international solidarity!” Every year! From a European perspective, I must say: We are facing a crisis, and this is not a refugee crisis, it is a crisis in Europe. A winged word was: Is that gonna work? Is that what Europe is doing? I do not understand the conservatives and the nationalists in this debate. Don't you have any pride at all, no national pride? One million refugees have come to Europe. By the way, Mr Lopatka, your number is 300 per cent wrong, because Turkey does not provide 600 000 but 2 million refugees. Turkey is providing 2 million refugees! [[Abg. Lopatka: Over Turkey have come 600 000, I said! Listen!]] If this year comes a million and next year a million will come to the whole Union, then the whole Union will do what Turkey does. Don't be proud to say: We can do this, we can do it, we are so powerful!Unknown term type: "%s".? You, the power-conscious, the artists, do you think Austria is not doing this and Austria is not bringing it? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You have a pretty bad opinion of the Austrian population, if you believe that it does not create what is a fraction of what the Turkish population creates. It can't be that way. Now you are going to a summit, to a European summit where distribution policy is to be discussed, Mr Bundeskanzler. The problem will continue there, which is a crisis of the nation states. A national conference with 28 heads of state, which cannot agree on how to solve this problem, will not solve it again because they do not want to do so and all 28 want only one egoistic: as little as possible do themselves on this question. I'd be more power conscious... [[Call the FPÖ: What is your solution?]] My solution? – My solution is to save people who are just before they are raised. That's my solution. I'd save every single person. I'm sorry, but [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] I take note of your fear that I would still save every person. So now it's about building fences. Yesterday, Slovenia announced that it would like to have a fence. The next fence in Europe! We are now building more fences, more borders, between our national states. We're going to break Europe. Mr Bundeskanzler, you are now going to this meeting to negotiate the question of fences. A fence – and I say this as a Burgenländer on the Iron Curtain – is a symbol of insecurity. We need a symbol of freedom. If you're going to this fence deal, beware that this isn't coming! Avoid a fence in Europe, don't lock us into a cage, Mr. Federal Chancellor!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e8647	The next item is the speech by the Member of the European Parliament Dr. Mlinar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e8669	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Spoštovane lady in gospodje! All over the world, the European Union is being overshadowed. The fact is, however, that the two genuine EU institutions, the EU Commission and the EU Parliament have long had an agreed plan, which also provides concrete solutions such as solidarity ratio distribution. However, the governments represented in the Council of the European Union – and thus the national states – do not wish to give up their competence at the better appropriate level of the European Union and, of course, to prevent any solution by their respective national narrowness. However, governments are now required and should now show leadership so that people in the country also feel that they have the situation under control. And for this to happen, we need to get together on all levels. Good leadership means a common search for and a common implementation of solutions. This includes both the national level between the federal, state and local authorities and the EU level between the Member States and the EU institutions. We can only improve the situation on the ground as a whole, and I believe that this is clear and conscious to all of us, in order to give the people in or near their home country a perspective. I support what the Federal Chancellor has said today, and yes, this requires a common European foreign and security policy. Without a military axis or a common European army, it will not go. The money we would spend on this would be much better invested than in all fences at all internal and external borders. On the one hand, it is quite clear that we cannot border all the Greek islands with a fence, and desperate people will always find a way to overcome physical barriers. And without peace in Syria and an improvement in the situation on the ground, the flow of refugees will not tear off. We should now, immediately consider what our plan for 2016 and the next years is. In parallel to this long-term discussion, we also need a solution to the humanitarian disaster which is taking place for this winter. We always call for the solidarity of all EU Member States to be fully justified. I'm asking for that, too. At the same time, however, I am aware that we Austrians demand solidarity from the other countries, but in their own country between the federal states and the municipalities have very great problems in living this solidarity as well. If we want to achieve anything at European level, we must make progress here in order for the other countries to take us seriously. This provision is feasible and is done in Austria by civil society bravouros. The situation itself is manageable and absolutely no reason to panic. Even if the foretold 3 million refugees come to Europe, a continent of over 500 million can cope very easily. All we have to do is want and organize. But if the government does not want to make any comprehensible reasons for me, at least it should not stand in the way and not make the work of the many volunteers, whom I expressly thank here, even more difficult. We know many cases where support only fails to build up administrative barriers. And one of these cases is our National Councillor Sepp Schellhorn. He has to stop his refugee project in Bad Gastein, because the mayor points out that the refugee rate is already overcrowded. So the mayor of the ÖVP has turned this project off. So much for Christian charity. Sepp Schellhorn took care of the quarter, German courses, training places themselves. And the question is: What happens to these refugees? And The question is: Why do we run a project that worked? That understands who wants and who can. I can't understand. To sum up, I would like to stress: Yes, we are facing a challenge, and yes, this task is to be dealt with. And we should put our energy into the implementation of jointly developed plans instead of unthinked sham solutions. Austria, as a country directly affected, needs to move forward with a good example and should increase the financial support for on-the-spot facilities instead of wasting money in senseless structural measures at an EU internal border. Finally, just a quote from the old German chancellor Helmut Schmidt, who died yesterday, that we should all, each and every one of us, write in our main book: “The character proves itself in the crisis.” – Hvala lepa.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e8741	Next, Mr. Klubobmann Ing. Lugar speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e8762	Mr President. High house! We hear from the Federal Chancellor again and again: We have to be solid. Solidarity is in every respect, and we have to be solid. The question, of course, arises: With whom do we have to be solid? Why, for example, do we need to be solid with our neighbors? And I'd like to tell you that if you said, We had the Hungarian crisis, that was our neighbors. Okay, that's where solidarity shines, because you can expect from neighbors – and that also implies the word solidarity – that they help each other. But now, for example, if you look at Pakistan, I wonder why we need to be in solidarity with Pakistan. Is Pakistan in solidarity with us? Did Pakistan ever do anything for us? On the contrary: Pakistan has now decided to close the borders for all those we want to send back there. [[Interlocutory calls from MEPs Schieder and Kogler.]] That is, if people from Pakistan come to us who have no asylum grounds and we send them back to Pakistan, then the Pakistani say no and close the airport for people who are brought back to their homes. And that's where I wonder, Federal Chancellor: Why don't you address solidarity? [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Why don't the Pakistani finally have to be solid with us? Why are there no sanctions against Pakistan if we clearly fail to comply with the rules of the game? But no, you want to be solid! I wonder when Somalia, Pakistan or Egypt are bordering our country, so that we have to welcome people from these countries. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kogler.]] Why? Since when? Since when? Why do we have to be solid with all those? Why is it our duty to include all those who want to join us? Why? Can anyone explain this to me in here? Why does someone have to get on the road and spend 2,000 miles or more to be safe? - There's no reason for that. And there is no reasonable reason for us to take up these people here, because they would be much better lifted up in their region, and we would be beating two flies with one blow. In fact, many things have been said about our invitation policy, which has not caused you, Mr Faymann, but at least contributed. In fact, this invitation policy did not come from Mrs Merkel, but from the German industry. More than a year ago, the German industry wished for new workers at Mrs Merkel. The German industry has said that in five to ten years it will no longer have a qualified workforce in Germany, but it needs it. And now you have come to the glorious idea of sending an invitation to so-called qualified refugees to attract all those whom you might need in the industry. The idea of the industry is quite amazing: We take in 10,000 refugees, pick up the 500 best, and the rest belongs to the taxpayer. – This is the strategy that is being driven here. And we're making this strategy the wall! What happens because of this invitation strategy? – People hope to get on the road and get into boats that are completely overloaded because they have heard hope, in Germany everything is better because they have heard, there they are welcome, there are jobs there, there are everything they need. That's why these people get into these boats. People are not to blame you for supporting this invitation policy, and that is the problem. You'd have to send a signal. I'm not for making fences either. I'm also against fences. We don't need fences. Soaps don't make sense either. There is no way to guard the fences, so no one gets through. The bolt cutter you already have will also use the refugees, of course. What we must do is send all those we take back immediately, back to where they can and should stay, in the region. That is the meaning of the Geneva Convention on Refugees. The meaning is that all those fleeing to the neighbouring country are fleeing, provided that the neighbouring country is semi-stabilised. This applies to Turkey and many other countries in the region. We have to send them back there, and exactly there they have their place, so that they can eventually return to their home country and rebuild Syria and whatever the countries are called. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach]] Do you want to depopulation all serious Syria and quantify all of us here? What makes sense? – That doesn't make any sense at all! Look, Federal Chancellor, if you are looking for someone who can and want to be in solidarity with you, then I would simply suggest to you the 37 000 Austrian homeless. Be solid! Did I hear that from you? 37,000 people in Austria are homeless. I haven't heard from you yet. It's always about the refugees, it's about Pakistani, it's about Syrians, it's about everyone who wants to come here, but there's no one who cares about those who are here. So be in solidarity with them once!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e8841	Now comes Mrs Mag. Muttons. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e8862	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would now like to address another aspect that we have not really discussed in the refugee crisis: Last week we all saw the pictures of the Niger deltas contaminated by lurid oil residues – oil from a global, also European company. In addition, it was again to be read this year that the EU exports almost 600 000 tonnes of poultry meat to Africa at the expense of African poultry dealers. They must therefore block their holdings. Ladies and gentlemen, the EU's current relationship with Africa looks like this. [[Abg. Kogler: Right!]] We do not need to be surprised if the people whose environment we are destroying and whose jobs we are destroying are on our way. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] That is why I think it is very necessary and very important that the EU's Heads of State and Government meet with their African colleagues today and that these things will also be addressed. The approach is correct, namely to combat the causes of escape and not the refugees, which is now happening again and again. I fear, however, that if we do not change our economic relations with Africa in principle, then these projects may only be a drop on the hot stone. As has been said, the approach is correct and necessary to resolve the issue of refugees on the ground, in the countries of origin, with the countries of origin, with neighbouring countries and with the transit countries. This includes financial and material support for Syrian refugees in neighbouring countries, which Austria is now participating in with €26 million. This is €11.5 million for the EU Syria Fund, €5 million for the World Food Programme, €5.5 million for the UNHCR, €1 million for various UN organisations and €3 million for Africa projects. We must ensure that the money arrives quickly with the refugees and that the aid actually includes all EU countries in solidarity – the word solidarity has often fallen – as well. Even on the question of how we deal with the refugees who come to Europe, there can only be a common European solution if we do not want to put the free Schengen area at risk of the common economic area and the EU as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen, national demolition, possibly through walls or fences, and single entrances, in which the problems are simply shifted to the neighbor, destroy important trust. This is the purest poison for the peaceful co-existence of the states in Europe and would be an enormous economic, social and political step backwards. In the long term, problems of hanging others around or solving them at the expense of the neighbor create no order or security, but bring more instability, more chaos and more dissatisfaction, and we do not want to endanger our social peace – not in Austria and not in Europe. We must be concerned to see how relations in the Balkans with neighbouring countries are getting worse. That cannot be the future of Europe. That's what we have to stop. A reasonable solution can therefore only be that we jointly fight against the causes of escape, that we jointly protect and control our external borders and create legal entry opportunities, and that we jointly and in solidarity take care of the refugees who have a right to protection in Europe, that is, that we do not leave the transit countries in the Balkans in the rain and that we also need a fair distribution of recognised refugees to all EU countries – and not at some point, but very quickly. We will also have to make it clearer to the current refusals of admission, which are very often also EU net recipients, and we will have to make it clear to them that solidarity in the EU is not a one-way road. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e8914	Now the Member of the European Parliament is coming to Mag. Karas to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e8935	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! We've heard it today, 60 million people are on the run worldwide. 1 million of them are on their way to the European Union this year. Each of us has its access and is affected. However, it is always about people who are fleeing, who have hope and see their opportunities to help and protect people, mostly or volunteering, who are responsible for law and order and regulated processes, but it is also about people who are afraid and who feel threatened. Let's not play these people against each other! Each of them has his dignity and deserves our respect. [[Abg. Beautiful: Yes, but what is the consequence...?]] It's about complying with rules, decisions, commitments. The right and our values are our instructions, not surveys, election or party-tactic considerations. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the state, the European Union and the UN are required as a protection, regulatory, legal, value and solidarity community, and indeed, many are also over-needed. It is, and I say it quite consciously, also about the successful interaction of law, justice, security and mercy. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] I therefore call on you to help ensure that the often embarrassing game of party-tactic debt allocations, the lack of seriousness and sincerity is ended too much. I urge you to overcome nationalism – it does not bring us forward! – to rethink some of the choices of words. I say that the dispute in the government about the different models of refugee management at our borders is ridiculous. It is a matter of responsibility, it is a matter of common, determined action. [[Congratulation with ÖVP, SPÖ and Greens]] [[Abg. Bösch: Do still today! Do it at last!]] The challenges are a test of historical importance for the European Union and the international community. We politicians – each of us – are on the test stand, worldwide and towards our fellow human beings. Yes, there is too little European Union, i.e. too little common action, and even though we are much wider today than at the beginning of the year, the actions are behind the goals. Ladies and gentlemen, international decisions are in national interest. National singles do not bring us any further, we want to cope with immigration, manage, reduce and not just shoot us off. The problems begin not only at the external border, but where people live. People who seem to be less at risk of escape than the hope of peace and a better life at home make their way. Let's give people hope where they live! What is our budgeting of the World Food Programme (WFP), education, development cooperation or our initiatives for a common foreign, security, defence and development policy that we urgently need to secure the external border? We and all the other EU countries are doing too little, so the EU is weaker at the moment than the citizens want it from the common European Union. Differentiation is necessary but requires registration. Let us communicate the common EU decisions, results, objectives and weaknesses to the population, but let us, above all, stick to the agreements, let us not block any more proposals! I'll finish. Let's not mind man: There is no short-term solution, not a single measure, but only a common effort to combat causes! [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] Border security, a legal immigration policy, a Europe-wide distribution, a common asylum policy, common social security and integration policies are the instruments we need to meet the challenge together. Yes, we can do this – and we have to do it if we follow the principle: What you don't want you to do, no one else!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e9015	Mr Klubobmann Strache is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e9036	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary Steßl! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I say that it is already courageous to choose today, for this hour of Europe, the title ‘Current challenges of the refugee question require European solutions’. – Yes, great, but these European solutions are not available. There is a real political failure of the European Union, for over four years, and yet we are here today talking about the European solutions it needs. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] There has been an incredible failure for four years and the European Union has not managed to resist anything – nothing like it! This European Union has for a long time been disappearing in real political terms, but you are here and do not complement this hour of Europe – as it should be – in that, as long as this European Union continues to fail, it is, of course, necessary and in your responsibility, that it is your task to take care, Mr Chancellor Faymann, to ensure that Austria's public responsibility, the responsibility for Austrian laws, is exercised instead of somehow pointing its finger towards Europe! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In this respect, it is really courageous to say that you are threatening what you are doing today in the context of this current European hour. We are experiencing a chaos, which of course also bears your name, Mr Faymann! You have the responsibility for the chaos. Of course, it takes the starting point elsewhere, and of course that's all right, what has been said today: On the spot, the problem can be solved!, but who has seen ten, twenty, thirty, bestial killers and people on the ground take the whole world out of fishing? Who has let them go and done nothing about it? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Where's NATO? Where are the United States? Where are the so-called world politicians when it comes to bringing these terrorists under control and creating prospects for people there? - They looked away! There's nothing they've done! It was said right today: One has the recording center. There are no aids available on the ground, there is no investment where a dollar would be worth twenty times as much to provide assistance and help on the spot. Yeah, it's all right! The external borders have not worked until today, there are no initiatives from the European Union to counter them. Also interesting is the following: Once the captains of the Greek ferry announce a strike, there is no wave of refugees for days. This also shows how easy it would be to take action on the part of the European Union – if only you wanted to, but of course you do not want to. So if you go there, continue to bear the responsibility there and say something has to happen there, then I have to say: We know that, but now it's about self-responsibility! And what does this government do? - Nothing! Nothing! For weeks, thousands have been coming to the border every day for months, there are no passport controls, no photos, fingerprints are taken, nothing like that, no registration, why you don't even know how many people have been allowed in every day, don't even know who you've let in. One has not even controlled whether this can be a Syrian refugee or whether he may know from God where this world came from and has no refugee background at all. No such action has been taken, no legal basis can be guaranteed! That is to say, you are pointing out with your finger to the European Union – wherever you are responsible, Mr Faymann, because you are chancellors and should counter them in the European Union so that you can finally meet the commitments there – but here in Austria you can't do it! Complete inactivity, complete failure in your responsibility! I therefore say that there is a need for an actionable Austrian government and not one that is constantly demonstrating the failure of the European Union, but also permanently fails and ultimately is not ready to show its ability to act! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Of course, we must comply with laws, that is the obligation we have towards our citizens. It is about ensuring the safety, peace and order of our own population. – I didn’t hear that at all today. That would be our responsibility, but it will not live. And if, by chance, any internal reports of the Ministry of the Interior come to the attention of the public saying that security, peace and order are no longer given to the Austrian population in the face of this failure of the government, then that is acquitted! And if another internal paper, namely from the Ministry of Finance, comes to the public’s attention that one has to expect 12,5 billion additional costs for the next four years alone, then this will also be acquitted again, because the costs will have to be borne by the Austrian, in which the tax increases will then be cleaned up accordingly. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] I say: That's exactly what's annoying people. 430 000 people and more have been left through the country, through towing activities, which are rightly the cause of the accusation from Germany. You have this to do here, you have the responsibility here in the country for our citizens and not to point it out permanently to others! In Slovenia, a fence is already being built with the support of the Austrians. There's a fence that's possible at once! – Of course, such a one is possible anyway, I say, because every house has a garden fence that not every unauthorized person can enter the property, and one does not hang doors and Windows out so that any unauthorized person can get into the apartment or into the house. Of course, this is necessary in order to prevent illegal entry, and in the end we must ensure everything.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e9135	Now comes Mrs Mag. Korun to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e9157	Mr President. Dear Empty Government Bank! Estimated guests on the gallery and in front of the screens! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) It is quite original for European solutions to face up to challenges as so-called EU lobbyism, as did EU Parliamentary Harald Vilimsky of FPÖ before, and then for this EU to demand the solutions to these challenges. All in all, this is not going to be a bit, Mr. Strache! [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Back to the actual topic: It was once a Europe that wanted to be an area of freedom, security and justice, for all the people who live in this Europe or who are in this Europe. Thanks to nationalist policies of so many government parties, as Mr Klubobmann Lopatka has just said in his speech, we must now deal with ideas that are there: Warships are to be used by the Greek Navy against refugees. [[Abg. Lopatka: Not against refugees!]] I take you seriously, Mr Lopatka, and I would like to continue your thoughts. [[Abg. Lopatka: Against the tow!]] If Greek warships from the Greek Navy, as you have called for, are used in the Mediterranean to hinder the entry of refugees – and we all know the pictures of the boats with many children, with infants, with young and old – if this naval of the Greek state is used, what would be the consequence of not being able to stop these boats? Shoot refugees? Is that your proposal? Do you take your own proposal seriously? [[Abg. Lopatka: Yes, I take the fight against tugs seriously!]] The question was and is – we all know the pictures of the refugee boats with young and old, children and infants –: Should the Greek Navy shoot refugees to prevent them from entering the EU? – You obviously do not want to wear the consequence. You yourself know how the answer would turn out. I was with Eva Glavischnig in Catania in southern Sicily a few months ago. There, among other things, we have also talked with the mayor of this city, who has called on us to deliver the news to the whole EU – and both Austria and Sicily and Italy are part of this EU; we are all together, 28 EU countries are the EU: We need European solidarity! Zig thousands of refugees have arrived in Sicily, Italy cannot do this alone. We need European solidarity! This European solidarity has become aware of many government politicians only when Austria has also been affected by tens of thousands of refugees. This European solidarity has long been abandoned as an EU country. It was not the EU's external border that was not to be dealt with with by the tens of thousands of refugees. If the Italians are to do so, the Greeks are to do so, the Spaniards are going to take care of it. That is exactly what this Dublin agreement, ladies and gentlemen, which we have claimed for many years – including our Minister of the Interior – would work. – It did not function, and those who paid the tokens were Italy, Greece and Spain and, above all, the refugees concerned. A second point, which is regularly lacking in our asylum and migration discussions: The Federal Chancellor, who is unfortunately not here at the moment, has spoken of sustainable policy aimed at combating the causes of escape. I'll give him all the right. A few months ago we here in Parliament made the example of Senegal the subject. The EU has bought up fishing rights off the Senegal coast for a few million euros, with the result that 400 000 fishermen in Senegal, who lived by fishing, became unemployed with a blow. So if we say we don't want forced migration, we want people to stay where they live, because they have a life perspective there, then it's about a coherent policy, then it's about fair trade relations, then it's about us as part of the EU – and this is us – finally to stop exploiting African countries with unfair, unfair trade policy. [[President Head gives the bell sign]] Then we would also have fewer people who should come to us because they have no perspective at all where they lived. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e9235	The next speaker is Mr Klubobmann Dr. Strolz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e9256	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear citizens on the gallery and in front of the screens! We are talking today about the challenges in refugee issues and European solutions in this current European hour, and I would like to make a point that is important to me as a fact: Migration in a large style will take place. – This is a fact that we cannot choose. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: And you want that?]] It will take place in a large-scale way, because people today are more mobile all over the world because we are more connected because we are growing together globally because the crises are numerous because wars are raging because the prosperity gap on this planet is very, very large, because poverty and prospectlessness are growing in many parts of this world. That means that fact is and remains, immigration will take place to a greater extent than we have known in recent decades. [[Abg. Lugar: Don't!]] Point two: Immigration is a great opportunity, it has great opportunities, and yes, immigration also poses great risks. The NEOS approach is to focus on the opportunities and try to cultivate them, and also look at the risks and try to minimize the risks associated with them. Let us see that we act in an anticipative, forward-looking manner and also perceive the risks and thus minimize them so that they do not come into existence! Let's see that the chances come to life! Where are we up-to-date? – I ask Mrs Steßl, the Secretary of State, to judge the government, and I believe that we must be clear about this as well – still in a spiral of escalation, we are still on the road in an intensification of chaos. We just need to see that. There are flows of refugees throughout Europe, also on the Austrian border and through Austria. They are uncoordinated, undirected, disordered, and I fear they will not order in the next few weeks and months. We should be honest. It is not about whether we can register 5,000 or 10,000 people per day at the Austrian border, but it is obviously about not wanting it. Nor is it about whether we are building a fence that is five meters or three kilometres long, but it is about Austria as well as any other EU member country not even interested in a registration, because it must be expected, in accordance with the Dublin rules, that the neighbouring countries will wash down on us. That means what we are doing at the moment is that everyone is trying to get rid of the neighbouring country, and that is why we have to come to Dublin quickly in new follow-up arrangements. But they are not in view, and as long as they are not in view, everything else is spreading sand into the eyes of the people, because actually every country wants to clean itself down, and we're going to be there. And that is, of course, unworthy. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: This is a breach of law that you are describing!]] It's mainly about humanity, and it's about honesty. We should say it honestly as it is: We don't want to register them, and that's why they're not registered! – I made my point. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: So, right?- Oh, my God!]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. No, you don't!]] Mr. Rosenkranz, what is it about? – It is about problem-solving, and it is about recognizing that the starting point for problem-solving will not be easier in the next few months. Why? – It is more likely than unlikely that we will have frozen infants on the Balkan route or in Austria over the next few months. It is more likely than unlikely that we will have attacks in Europe over the next few months, not because they are happening by the refugees, but because other forces will use this situation. That is to say, the starting point for solutions will not be easier, it will become more complex, and that is why I want to come to solutions, in large as in small ones. In the small Sepp Schellhorn shows how to do it. He did it in the big one. And here is an appeal to all those who hold up Christian-social values, who then kneel on Christmas evening and say “Hoverbergssuch” again, but who have turned to refugee homes that have worked optimally and as best practice: That's disgraceful! That's disgraceful! [[I should like to say that I am very pleased to see NEOS and Greens as well as SPÖ representatives.]] Most importantly, we need solutions in which we simply have to take credit in those things that have worked. We have had a Stability Pact for South-East Europe for almost ten years, with great contributions from Austria as well. Let us try to establish this kind of multilateral for the Middle East, a stability pact for the Middle East, where we go into infrastructure projects, in educational projects, so that we can get into the field of politics later on! Let's start with doing things together! Let us, together with the African Union, try to find solutions! [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] Final sentence: Just like today in Malta, these are things that have to take place weekly, with solution orientation – and not as an appointment for a common dinner! That'll be too little.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e9383	Next word: Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e9404	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! It's a shame that the Federal Chancellor has already dived for dinner, I would have liked to tell him personally, but well. [[Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek: He's officially apologised!]] [[State Secretary Steßl: This is incredible!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, on the topic of refugees, I have asked myself a few questions. A week and a half ago in the Committee on the Interior in this Parliament, I asked the Minister for the Interior: What if Germany reinvigorates Dublin III and closes the borders, controls people and sends people back? – I then received a reply from an official from the Ministry of the Interior: That's not a problem, then we'll send people back to where they came from. But you know that Germany registers refugees at the borders in Upper Austria and other federal states in 50s and then leaves them in the country. The stand-back remains in Austria. That means they'll be registered there for the first time. Now, however, we know that most refugees come from Greece, and as the ferry strike has shown: If the ferry does not drive, there are no refugees on the Balkan route either. That gave me a little to think about. So Austria does not register, Greece does not register, the Balkans do not register. Today I have heard an interesting message in the early news: Austria has always assumed 86 000 asylum applications this year – today this figure has been increased to 95 000. [[Abg. That's going to be 150 000 this year!]] A bad person who thinks something bad here, but it's strange that this comes right at the time when Germany is performing Dublin III again. That sounds a little nascent. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to go back a little further. Four years ago, I was in the Migration Committee of the Council of Europe. At that time, the Syrian war began. At the time, I voted in favour of the establishment and monitoring of a ten-kilometre zone in the Mediterranean region, that is, at the North African border, in order to prevent the refugees from coming across the dangerous sea route to Europe, to build reception camps there, as Frank Stronach said in the "summer talks". At that time, the Communists, who were not in the government in Greece at the time, said: Doors open, all in. Europe is to be accepted by everyone. This is Greece's refugee policy. Now we are talking about Europe. At that time I protested against it and said that it will never come. Now the Communists in Greece are in the government. What's going on? - Doors open, all in! Everything pure to Europe, uncontrolled. You can now see how easy it would be to control: The ferry has been working for four days, and there are hardly any refugees. That is, it would be easy for the Greeks to carry out these registrations when entering the ferry. If you can do this at an airport, it's easy to do, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I think that's the right way. That's just about the will. Now I'll tell you a little more about Greece. I was recently on a parliamentary Baltic tour, and I spoke to an Estonian politician who told me the following: How am I supposed to explain to my people who have a low pension that we are sending money to save money to Greece, where pensioners in Greece have much higher pensions than the people here in Estonia? - That's where it sounded. That's a good statement, you really have to ask yourself. Then I learned something on this trip, namely that Austria closes all three embassies in the Baltic, but in each of these three Baltic states, Greece has a message with several employees, with a vice-consult and the devil knows what everything has to do with it. There's enough money for that. Now someone has to explain to me why we're sending money down to Greece if they don't do their homework. [[Call to the ÖVP: This is populism!]] – No, that’s not populism, but these are facts, Mr. Colleague, and they must be said to people. And it must be demanded from Greece that they comply with the European rules before we send down a lot of money, let us do everything and do everything, just so that they do not have to fulfil their tasks. You have to look at that, ladies and gentlemen. I think that would be the right step. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Unfortunately, the speaking time is a little short. I would therefore just like to address one point.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e9493	She's over, deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e9508	Final sentence: The Luxembourg Minister for Foreign Affairs has said it clearly: If we do not get to grips with the problem, there will be military conflicts in the Balkans – and that with our federal army, which we have saved to death. I don't want to experience that.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e9535	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e9557	I would like to start with something positive: I think it was right that the Iran talks took place in Vienna. I'm glad they were successful. That is also one of the reasons why Iran is now also present at the Syria talks, all concerned are like Russia, the USA, Assad. It is very important that this is carried out together, because it is one of the solutions to achieve peace and, at least, to stop the migration movements. The second point is: Those who are interested in the development of the European Union must also have courage to criticise. I think it is to be criticised that the European Union was not prepared for the impact of the financial crisis, was not prepared for the impact of the euro crisis, was not prepared for the Greek crisis and was not prepared for the refugee problem. [[Abg. Kogler: Because the nation states are putting the beatings in the way!]] This should be noted in all clarity. On the first points, they have developed instruments and have tried to do so in some way. In the case of refugee problems, however, the following is more difficult: If one is to discuss how one can rightly preserve the sovereignty of the states, make registrations, orderly asylum procedures, in short: can comply with the law, then all this is, of course, difficult at 66 000 kilometres, including the sea borders, which the European Union has. It's always like this: If you organize a stop anywhere, with whatever technical means, the routes change. Then it's about Italy again, then it's about Spain again. – This is only a symptom cure! And I'm saying this for the x-th time: The solution must be found at the root! There would be one of the points, for example, a World Economic Conference, in which all the really powerful are involved, because G7 excludes some who play an important role. Individual emerging countries are not there. China is not there. Russian country is not there. The G7 no longer needs to meet, which is now irrelevant! Rather, it is important to develop a global economic concept in order to organise global distribution, investment, trade in such a way that those living in Africa, Asia, the Arab countries have a life perspective. It's about all those saying: I want to continue to play a part in the construction! – That’s the decisive! In climate change, it is particularly bad: We, the rich countries, the rich large countries, are crucially indebted to this problem of CO2, this climate change, there is a great responsibility, and those countries that are going to break in with these droughts must also pay for it. In Syria, there was such a disaster, in the course of which people went from the villages to the cities and the migration movements began. Next point: What surprises me is that two NATO countries, such as Greece and Turkey, do not get under control. Something's wrong! I believe that the Greeks want to achieve that they are left to organize their savings programmes differently. The Turks want money to ensure that the migration movements do not use it in this way at all, and they want to go to the European Union as quickly as possible. I can only warn you about that! Turkey has lost nothing in the European Union! This must be clearly stated once again, because we have suddenly new borders and suddenly everyone who comes to Turkey is the same in the European Union. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ as well as with representatives of SPÖ, ÖVP and Team Stronach]] And what is added is that we must now, of course, make these withdrawal contracts. And in La Valletta, individual African countries may say that they want money for the withdrawal. Pakistan is such an example: Now it says No, but maybe it'll say yes. Turkey says no, then she might say yes. And that's how it goes. In the case of these withdrawal contracts, which we now have to do, because we are in an almost extortionable situation, we have to be careful not to get the money from the wrong ones, which will ensure that there are still unfair conditions and that there continue to be migration movements there! So there's a lot where I think you really have to do something. [[Abg. Lugar: Tell your chancellor! You're talking like you're in the opposition!]] Indeed, the summit of the whole is Britain – for a hair they would have been “little Britain” if the Scottishs had agreed – which is now beginning to extort the European Union, which is now making conditions. Cameron says: Wait, if you want us to stay with you, you need to change a bit! I have a reform plan. - Then let them leave! But the Scottish will stay inside, and the investments will go to Scotland – why not?- Oh, my God! This is an underdeveloped region anyway. I am saying this now – also as a parliamentarian in the framework – because I am so upset that they are making themselves there and now the European Union and all of us are beginning to blackmail! And there, I think, you have to clearly show edge. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and representatives of ÖVP, FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] So: Reforms are underway at all levels. – Because it is now just time to quote Helmut Schmidt, I will also quote Helmut Schmidt. Schmidt said: “Not all reforms cost money, and not everything that costs money is therefore already a reform.” That's a smart sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e9635	Next speaker: Mr Amon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e9671	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! A really very supportive contribution, dear colleague Cap – interestingly, a lot of the way in which Prime Minister Viktor Orbán spoke at the EPP Congress. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP as well as with representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Cap's got an ironic warning on the index finger.]] [[Abg. Look out, that's a "hetzer"!]] Orbán also said that the European Union should not go to Turkey with its measures in order not to be completely extradited. I believe that this common sense has its power, ladies and gentlemen, as I would like to say at all, that it is natural to support what the Federal Chancellor has done today, in large parts, because it can only be undoubtedly so that, of course, the causes must be tackled first if we want to get to grips with this problem – and this is a huge challenge, not only for our country, but for many parts of Europe, and hopefully also for the whole European Union. That is why it is natural to support everything that is set out in initiatives that we are host country for the Syria conference and more. But I also believe that – and this has also happened to me a little too little in the statements of Mr Bundeskanzler – Mrs State Secretary, who represents him: Of course, Austria already has to do its own homework, because a white self-reliance to the fact that the problems are already solved somewhere else can not be done either. I know that the Austrian Federal Government is doing this and that it is now and these days that we are seriously talking about how we will deal with this situation at the Austrian borders in the future. Ladies and gentlemen – and this is very important to me –: I do not wish for a Europe of fences. I do not need to make a commitment to Europe and to this European Union here, I have fought, worked and argued on time of my political work for this common Europe. The last thing I want is a Europe that builds fences around its national states. I don't want to. [[Abg. Strache: We will rip out all the garden fences!]] But we also have a responsibility towards our own people. [[Abg. Strache: And the citizens want which, they want border fences! Just because you don't want it! The citizens want border fences!]] And if the European Union fails to protect the external border in the sense, we must act here. Mrs Korun, the criticism of our clubman goes completely empty because it is not about going on warships, as you have said. These are boats of the Greek Navy. [[Abg. Walser: (in the direction of Abg. Showing Lopatka) He said that!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Korun.]] It is not about shooting at refugees, because when I show my passport at the airport in Vienna, it is not usually shot either, just because there is a passport check, but it is what Othmar Karas has said very clearly here, about the right, and it is about the rule of law. With Weitem not all who are now coming to Europe – not all of them! – have a right to asylum. [[Abg. Schwentner: You won't determine that, so the authorities will!]] It is about this distinction, Mrs Korun, because if we allow everyone to enter and immigrate into this Europe without any kind of control, then we are taking the opportunity of those who really need asylum to come to a safe country. [[Abg. That's what you're doing!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This clearly distinguishes our two positions. They say: Everyone should come, even if they are exclusively economic interests. And we say that asylum law must not be eroded. This is a clear difference between you and us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, comparisons with the Hungarian crisis, with the Prague spring, with the Yugoslavia war are not appropriate, because those who came here were asylum seekers. These were really people who were politically persecuted from a regime, and they sought asylum in the first safe country. That, ladies and gentlemen, is the difference between your and our position.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e9839	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Hübner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e9860	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Amon! - I'll even give you that. [[Abg. Schönegger: These were two very good speeches now!]] One was very good at the colleague Amon: He was the first of the ÖVP's ranks in this House to say that the Austrian population also has its interests and that these interests must also be safeguarded. I've never heard that before. And he said for the first time in this House – and I have not heard that from the ÖVP until now – that there is a huge difference between the current mass immigration from the Third World and the Hungarian, Czech and Polish crisis. That's not what I've heard so far. In this respect, Mr Amon's speech was indeed good, new and refreshing. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the Stronach team.]] But what is little refreshing, little new and not good is that colleague Amon – like Mr Klubobmann Lopatka, who spoke – is one of the most important representatives of the government parties. And if he says that the government must do their homework, and judge the Chancellor here, let's not forget to do the homework, then I wonder: Why are you doing this? If it comes from me or if it says Klubobmann Stache, I understand. We're not in government. But why does the government itself say that it has to do its homework? [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the Stronach team.]] If you agree that you have not done your homework, then this is also a positive factor, and then I'm right for your colleague, then it was good. Let's see what the government has done on homework or not: Immigration – I give some previous speakers right – will always take place, but illegal mass immigration happens only then and where they are allowed. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the Stronach team.]] That's a will decision! – Try You're illegal today to immigrate to Australia or to the United Arab Emirates! Then you will see exactly that illegal immigration is a will decision of the country concerned. In contrast, try to immigrate to Sweden, Austria or Germany! Then you'll know. If you want to preserve the interests of the population, if you seriously mean what you have said today, then we expect you not to take measures in two weeks, not in four weeks and not in one year, but immediately to stop illegal mass immigration to Austria. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the Stronach team.]] There is nothing to help you if you take over the red-green diction and make flat-rate any illegal immigrants a refugee. He's not! Whoever comes to Austria comes through x safe third countries: it comes across Turkey, where there is no civil war, a state with 90 million inhabitants, it makes a two and a half thousand kilometers long journey through a relatively safe third country; it then comes across the Balkans, where there is no war. Whoever comes to us, to Germany or to Sweden, is an immigrant – for whatever reason. The reasons may be subjective – quite clearly: if I lived in Syria, Mali, Eritrea or Gambia, I would also take the opportunity to live in Sweden, Austria or Germany. But that does not mean that this is legitimate! If, coming from Gambia, I want to live in Austria, that doesn't mean Austria says: Refugee, you are welcome!, but that Austria looks at itself: Who is this? Is that what we want? Do we need that? Are we gonna let that happen? [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Lugar.]] If Austria does not do so, if Austria – like your clubman and coalition partner Schieder in its entry state – is blaming itself with the fact that it has illegally thrown 440 000 people through Austria into another Schengen country, and if the whole thing is taken wordless, silently by a government party, then I expect you to find more clear words than today. Then I expect: Mea culpa! Then at least I expect you to say: That was our fault, we bear responsibility here, we have this disaster, we have this state, we have to account for these billions of costs that come to us. - But I don't hear that. And that's what I expect, not only I, but that's what most of the Austrians and most of your voters expect – so much just because of the call for your speech to be positive. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the Stronach team.]] But now something very important: I can only accept what Mr Cap has said today, which I very much appreciate as a spirit-rich, well-read and historically educated speaker, from one point of view, namely the approach of Advent, because in Advent, of course, one can wish for something from the Christian Child, and in this case one can also wish for the Christian Child to solve the problem of mass immigration before which we stand – that we therefore provide development aid, and Black Africa will then become a prosperity country, such as Dubai or Switzerland, and no one needs to emigrate anymore. This can be desired – but this is a wish for our great single generation and not for us. That is why I also expect the Social Democrats to be a government party: Realism, respect for Austrian interests and no sand-in-the-eye-the-watcher-and-pointer scatters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e9950	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e9973	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It has almost become an up-to-date European hour, thanks to the previous speakers. But what are the central questions? I wouldn't have thought it possible for them to put themselves that way again in 2015, but it's actually true that the question is – it has come so far, yes –: Does this Europe stay together? Are the states together in their approaches? Sometimes you even have the feeling that it is also: Do citizens stay together? But the whole thing is, contrary to what is always said and what you can hear in a majority way today – from one side you never hear it otherwise, I do not go into it at all –, a crisis of individual, almost, vanity, at least unolidarian behaviors and needs of the Member States and not the Union, at least not in the first place. This is precisely why the question of future Europe arises: Should this be one of the ones where the stamping trees are being struck down and the barbed wire fences are lifted up, with all economic damage, by the way – this is noted by the way, Mr Lopatka of the Economic Party – or is it further that we defend this, when we are already talking about the defender, which are above all the principles and the values? It's about fundamental things. That's all we're talking about, in fact, war refugees because there's war there. When you listen, you always believe that war is with us, given the measures you are calling for. There's war where they come from! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Do you know that these people, if they wanted to pursue this – I now, of course, stay with Syria in the first place, I say that already; I come when it comes out to speak in Africa – and there are threatened with body and life and torture? What are we talking about here in our warm room? That's inconceivable when you have to listen. The international Commission, which had to investigate whether and how many years ago toxic gas attacks occurred in Syria, could not make the public talk without all members beginning to cry – have you never followed it? – because there was watching on the videos how the children died in pain – it can't be said otherwise. And then you have to listen to that?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Cute: What does “hearing ” mean?]] Where are we? – That’s the way it is! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Cute: What’s “this ”?]] We know that you have nothing to do with Europe. You're part of the problem! But there is much possible in democracy. And that's why it's about these European values. It is always said that human rights are not negotiable. That's right. But they are not tradable either, so this cost-benefit regime is so funny that it is often applied when it comes to such issues. And now we look at that in detail. Whoever wants to go back to the national state – if you already trust in it here – he doesn't want Europe at all, that's not going to happen in this situation anymore. But worse yet, he doesn't want a solution at all! That's the problem. We will have to talk about the solutions even more often, but it is primarily about a crisis of solidarity and not about a refugee crisis! You can't say that often enough, even though it has already been announced there or there. But it is obviously more necessary in the Austrian Parliament – as I had to realize when I heard the discussion in the EU's main committee – than ever to hold this again. There is a lot of unwilling states in Europe, that is right, and there you have to, and I don't hear anything about it anymore – I am quite open, that is legally and legally difficult – and some unwillings also have to withdraw some of the support, at least as well. It can't be a one-way street, as it always means so beautiful. Then you also have to set signs and signals in this regard. If we now look at what these solutions are offered here – there still a fence and there and there – this is the instability of the Balkans, which is a problem zone for itself. I can only say: Congratulations! Listen to Merkel! And now when we look at Syria to get closer to the origin of the real problem: Of course, it is so that you could and should do more there. Peter Pilz has often pointed this out enough. And by reason of that: What are the numbers? If we were not to provide only 5 billion – it would be embarrassing by half, 2 to 3 – but even 50 billion – do you know what to do with 50 billion? That's less than 30 cents per Europeanin and day. If that is not possible, then in principle something is wrong. This is the wrong line in the Member States, and we have to put it there. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] Thank you, Mr President. Now we always have elites who either lead or fear. I'm pleading that you don't just want to suffer the future. – I also borrowed this quote when Helmut Schmidt was already quoted here. – You have to want to shape the future! We Europeans could if we wanted to. And then we Europeans would do something.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e10060	Mr Scherak. — (DE) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e10081	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! I think it is almost likeable when Mr Amon's criticism of the Federal Government is so mild that this may be a sign that Parliament is a little more self-confident and that the government is also a little criticised by the government. I hope so. That's what I like. It is clear that we are moving far too slowly in this situation. The Federal Chancellor is right when he says it has to be done more speed here. I am also aware that this is not so easy, especially in a Europe in which 28 Heads of Government then try to enforce their national interests. But fact is it's too slow. And if we look at the meeting of the Ministers of the Interior this week, where de facto nothing really has come out, if we think that two months ago we decided to distribute 160 000 refugees accordingly, and of which only about 150 have been actually distributed, then we see it is far too slow what is happening here, and we have to move faster. We know that we have to move faster on essential matters, namely that we are making a common European foreign and security policy and that we are getting a common European asylum system in which there are also joint and jointly funded centres at the external borders. Because it's clear – and that's not how it can be –: As long as there are 28 different asylum procedures in the European Union Every refugee will, of course, go to that country where the recognition rate is higher. And if the recognition rates are currently between about 4 per cent in Slovakia, 40 per cent in Austria and 80 per cent in Sweden, it is only logical that refugees will always get on their way. That is why we need common European rules, otherwise we will not get under control. [[Congratulations on MEPs from NEOS, SPÖ and Greens.]] The Federal Chancellor said yesterday in the main committee that Greece will not do this alone. That is all conscious and all very clear. We know that there have been no Dublin returns to Greece for years, including the human rights situation in Greece. It is precisely because of this that we must move forward more decisively and quickly. Because as far as the common hotspots or first recording centres that we were promised for the end of November are concerned: It is now mid-November, even if the temperatures suggest something else. But the fact is, in two weeks they are supposed to stand – and it is far and wide nothing to be seen from them. But we need them urgently, because we can only continue to do so. Whatever is clear – and we have to move faster too – is the need for a successful return agreement. If we want a common European asylum system, it must also be clear that those who do not receive asylum can be brought back to their home country. And if Pakistan says this week that it is one-sided now, we will have to invest massively more time here, so that it also works, because this is also an essential problem. I believe that strengthening cooperation with Turkey is an important point. But what needs to be clear here is that a country that still wants to join the European Union must be clearly and with all vehemence that the human rights situation must not be such that fundamental rights such as freedom of expression and freedom of assembly cannot be trampled on, because at the end of the day this will also affect refugees and, for these, the human rights situation in Turkey will be accordingly negative. That is why I think it is a bit cynical to say, as Commissioner Hahn yesterday, on the one hand, that there is a rupture towards Turkey, and at the same time at the same time I hope that Turkey will solve all the problems for us in the future. I personally like the Foreign Minister, who called it hypocrites, much better. Because it's a fact: We cannot say, on the one hand, that it is not possible, and on the other hand it is not possible to clean up and hope that all the problems will be solved for us in the future, just because we are providing them with appropriate financial resources. Clearly – and this is an essential point –: We must finally make it possible to create legal entry opportunities into the European Union. We all know that fences lead to people looking for other ways. It is already true that refugees are obviously moving back from the European Union in the Balkans to get over the northern route. Soaps are not the solution. We need to create legal entry. I therefore also think it is somewhat cynical that a draft of the government is currently under consideration, according to which the conditions for the only legal entry into Austria, namely the family estate, should be strengthened. That's the wrong way. We must do much more here, just as we do in the case of resettlement programmes – this is also a way of legally entering the European Union. In order not to imagine people coming across other routes and also to put themselves at risk in winter. I think we all know it's enough to do. And fact is: What needs to be done must be done as quickly as possible. And believe me, I think it is much more useful for the Federal Government and, above all, for the people who need to be helped, for you to sit down and try to deal with these challenges, to create solutions here than for weeks to be constantly directed over the media, where in the end nothing looks out. Sit down, solve the problems – try to solve them – and let this little little girl that has been taking place between the government parties for weeks! That doesn't make any sense. That doesn't help anyone.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e10154	Next word: Mrs Dr Lintl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e10175	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The previous speeches of my previous speakers have made it clear that the EU is not fully aware of the issue of refugees. Frontex is unable to protect the EU's external borders. And, unfortunately, the “Fortification Europe” of which the Minister of the Interior dreams will not be realized in the near future. However, Austrians have a right to the protection of external borders, especially as they have to transfer immense sums to Brussels as net payers. And as Austria is unable to implement its own laws nationally, the EU is unable to implement its own standards. On the contrary, it criticises countries that, like Hungary, are consistent and consistent in implementing the Dublin Regulation. Since high-performance hotspots for registration and fast deportations at the EU's external borders do not benefit if the implementation within the Member States does not agree and does not provide enough staff as required by the Frontex chief. This once, in order to deal with the refugee crisis, would require a single European action, a more European one – and the EU is already giving itself the blush and fails all the way. The much-known European peace project can no longer guarantee social peace. The EU, with its policy of borderless welcome culture, is risking an inflow of largely non-integrated migrants and refugees. This policy polarizes its own population and thus threatens the solidarity of society. How should Europeans still have a rest of confidence in the EU's solution skills if the EU is offering itself to Turkey? Mr Cap and also Mr Kurz have already warned about this. The EU does so despite the fact that Turkey can act almost unhinderedly on the part of the criminal organisations of the tractors and that Turkey is taking action against the Kurds, who fight bravely against the ISIS, and by doing so de facto supports the ISIS terrorists. Europe has to pay for the long-term support of Turkey in reducing the flow of refugees. So far, Erdoğan has already negotiated liberalisation in the visa requirement, participation in EU summits, the opening of new chapters in the accession negotiations and much money. Only a pan-European solution can be a sustainable solution in order to end the no longer manageable international migration to Europe. One euro- The agreement on the distribution of 160 000 refugees has already been condemned as a failure. The distribution rate for migrants is therefore not a solution to the real problem. In addition, an involuntary quota is an inappropriate intervention into the sovereignty of the European states. A solution would be to consider introducing a border protection programme, which is based on the Australian model ‘No way’. This model has proved itself so far and does not cause the deaths of the Zig thousands in the sea. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e10226	Mr Doppler has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e10248	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I listened very carefully today and have to say one thing: It is really strange what comparisons are being made here when it comes to whether one needs a fence, a control system or yet structural measures. And, ladies and gentlemen, I have also listened closely to the EU Member of Parliament, and he has said that in Austria, in Europe, we have “no refugee crisis but a distribution crisis”. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry that Mr Member's friend is no longer here – probably he is already on his way back to Brussels – but if he has not recognized this great problem that we have in Austria, in Europe, then I must say, he is already very far away from the domestic population, ladies and gentlemen, and I believe that this is actually a problem. We have another major problem with the refugees. There's no question at all: There are a lot of people who need help. But Austria cannot vote everything, ladies and gentlemen. Another major problem is the use of police: She does great things, only the facts are such that she has reached her power line, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I think it is important – and this has also been mentioned – that the EU's external borders should be secured. I just think it's just as important that the domestic boundaries are safe. But one more thing is important, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen: Asylum is a protection on time and not unlimited. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e10288	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[12:41:49]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e10309	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e10521	I also say that the Seventh Report of the Inconsistency Committee has been distributed to the members of the National Council. [[12:42:31]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e10542	The Club Team Stronach has according to § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure requested the written question 6954/J by Mrs Ing. Lugar, colleagues in the Federal Chancellor on "Where is Chancellor Faymann? – to treat Austria urgently in the most dangerous economic, labour market and refugee crisis since 1945”. Under the Rules of Procedure, the urgent question will be carried out at least three hours after receipt of the agenda, i.e. at 3:43 p.m. [[12:42:58]] Request for a brief debate on the response to the question 6224/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e10566	Before entering the agenda, I shall inform you that the request made pursuant to § 92 of the Rules of Procedure is to have a brief debate on the reply to Question No 6429/J by Mr Mag. Loacker, Members and colleagues on “Balance of rehabilitation, spa or recreation stays” by the Federal Minister for Health. As this meeting called for urgent debate on a written question, the brief debate will take place following this one. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e10593	The current debate on points 1 and 2, 3 to 8, 10 and 11, 13 and 14 and 17 to 21 of the agenda is planned. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. Then let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e10617	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 6 hours in Vienna has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP per 81, FPÖ 75, Green 63, NEOS and STRONACH per 33 minutes. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall be the speaking time for the entire agenda of those Members who do not belong to a club within the framework of this Decision per 17 minutes. In addition, the speaking time of Members who do not belong to a club is limited to 5 minutes per debate. We come to the vote on the speaking time just presented. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are approaching this proposal to give a sign on this point. – This is unanimously accepted. [[12:44:55]] 1. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the report of the Federal Government on internal security in Austria (2014 Security Report) (III-195/863 d.b.) 2. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Gernot Darmann, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law with which the Federal Law on the Organisation of the Security Administration and the Exercise of the Security Police (Security Police Act – SPG), BGBl. No. 566/1991, as amended (864d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e10672	We now come to points 1 and 2 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Magistrate. Darmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e10700	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Of course, it would be useful to: In the light of the current European hours on the issue of refugee problems, which should have been referred to as a problem of international migration, the European Union's many years of active and passive failure to deal with international migration. It would also have been useful, however, if you had been present at the current hour of Europe with this theme, Mrs Bundesminister, for it would have had a significant impact on the internal security of the Republic of Austria if the European Union had failed to answer in this area. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] However, let us come to Agenda items 1 and 2, on the one hand, on the 2014 Security Report, on the other, on the FPÖ application for an amendment to the Security Police Act. Ladies and gentlemen, it will be little surprising for us – and my person for the FPÖ Parliamentary Club – to criticise the Committee here, too, that in this debate we are indeed dealing with a historical report, a historical safety report with obsolete figures. Every year, and for many years now, we have the problem that we will receive the half-yearly figures from the inner resort, with which we should of course deal in a timely manner. However, the safety report of the previous year will be discussed year after year here in the National Council, but we as legislators should draw our conclusions from the safety report. I think that should really be stopped. That is why we have tabled a request for an amendment to the Security Police Act, which provides that the Security Report would be submitted to the National Council by May in order to deal with it in a timely manner and thus to address the contents and, above all, to the staff of the Interior, if we are rightly dealing with this material in a timely manner and, as has been said, draw our conclusions in a responsible manner. I would nevertheless like to mention a few figures. Let's look at the year 2014. In summary, we had 527 692 crimes in 8.4 million inhabitants, 1 446 per day, 60 per hour per minute or one crime per minute at an investigation rate of 43.1 per cent. With this we are already in the current figures of the year 2015: For the half-year balance, this awareness ratio has fallen to 42.8 percent. In this respect too, it would be necessary to take appropriate steps not only from our side, but in particular from those responsible for the department. But we have not only a historical report on the discussion for this reason, Mrs Bundesminister. When I look at these figures and then look a little further forward in the 2014 Security Report, I come to the preface to this report. And that's where it's interesting, because you have yourself written down in the first paragraph: "Security and freedom mean quality of life and must be safeguarded constantly. This challenge faces the Federal Ministry of the Interior day after day.” Mrs Bundesminister, we know what problems are currently facing our people on a daily basis, especially in relation to illegal migration, to international migration coming through Austria, and I wonder: What have you done since 2014 to meet this illegal migration and towing, because it is written there that this was a key challenge of the year 2014? What have you done, and what challenges do we face today? When I say “we”, this is not only the population, but also the security executives and the staff of the Austrian Federal Army in the assistance mission, which are used in the best possible way every day to the best of knowledge and conscience and with the means available to them, for which they can be sincerely thanked. It's clear, ladies and gentlemen: The security executive, but also the Austrian federal army, make this daily in the sense of the Austrian population, but also in the knowledge that the Austrian Federal Government does not have as a partner on its side. The Austrian Federal Government does not just throw them into their way every day in the work, but in advance has cut down the money in the police's security area – as did the German army: Save to death – and expect officials on the border to do their job as best they can on the spot. It is therefore only a drop on the hot stone, Mrs Bundesminister, when you announce to create 1 800 additional posts with the police, because this will only make it possible to set up a service bike at the border, so that there is no permanent use of individual executive officers there. In reality, many more places and planning places for executive officials need to be created, for one thing is clear, Mrs Bundesminister: In the hinterland, in the country behind the border, the population also suffers from a decline in security, because local police are withdrawn to provide service at the border – which is, of course, necessary. But if today's announcement that, for example, in the country of Carinthia, the police and the German army are being withdrawn from the border crossings to Slovenia, I wonder: What is the living responsibility of the Austrian population? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In conclusion, I should like to make the following request, which refers to the need for technical safeguards which the Austrian population deserves: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! With regard to the speeches by ÖVP Klubobmann Lopatka and ÖVP security spokesperson Amon, who have made it clear here in relation to their ÖVP-Bundespartiteobmann Mitterlehner, for necessary effective border security measures, whatever their name is – because this whole dispute between ÖVP and SPÖ is a pure plantation of the population, I say to you on the verge of it – I would like to say: If you come out here and confirm that this is the line of the ÖVP, you will have this motion for a resolution here. and today also the possibility to make nails with heads and, in the sense of the Austrian population, to finally give the mandate towards the Federal Government to implement these border security measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e10830	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Darmann is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e10910	Next speaker: Mr Amon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e10932	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Darmann, you have a peculiar concept of democracy: If you are surrounded by positions and perhaps also a public debate about different accesses, then you do so as a dispute – this is a tendency that is unfortunately noted in the media, because we have a perhaps too low culture – but I do not know why you do this as a plantation against the population. Then what is the dispute between us? Do you also plant the population if you feel different from us? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Subsequent calls to the FPÖ.]] That's a funny access. I say to you that this is such an important issue that it is legitimate for Members who have a certain area of responsibility to interfere, of course, in the debate, even though they do not happen to have the same opinion as the government partner. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is a very strange concept of democracy, Mr Darmann, if you put such a thing into a ridiculous state. I don't understand, I want to tell you that. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] By the way: Mr Darmann, I do not need any advice from you, where I agree and where not, I will consider that myself. I'd like to have told you that too. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Here we see how credible you are!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] I would like to talk to the FPÖ about credibility. As you have decided with Mrs Winter, I have found that very well, but you also have others in your ranks, like Mr Winter – what is his name? – Höbart – is that what it means? – who places “net” on refugee boats: “A sea voyage that’s funny/a sea voyage, that’s beautiful”. That's a place with you?- Oh, my God! – Don’t tell me to be credible! Look at your credibility! [[Congratulations on ÖVP, SPÖ and Greens.]] I come to the safety report. In 2014, 527 692 ads were made for criminal acts. That is the lowest value for ten years, ladies and gentlemen! The lowest value for ten years! – Thank you, Mrs. Bundesmi-nister, thanks to the Austrian executive that you have made a lot safer by your use of Austria! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] However, it has not only decreased the number of ads, but also the education rate of 43.1 percent is for the third time in a row the best value we have. I would also like to congratulate the Austrian executive. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] It has been pronounced by the Austrian courts 32,980 convictions, which is also a low level. Unfortunately, we had an increase of 3.4 per cent in the number of house and house collapses, which is 17 109 cases. It must be said, however, that we already had a significantly higher value, namely in 2005, at that time there were 21,000 such collapses. Of course, you have to take it seriously when the numbers go up in an area. We also want to take this seriously, that is not a question. And that is why it is the right decision, Mrs. Federal Minister – and for this, of course, all the members of the Federal Government also deserve recognition – that we are massively increasing in the area of executive personnel. This is necessary because the requirements have grown, and with this policy reacts accordingly. It has also fallen – and I would like to address this too, because, I believe, it is not significant – the number of ads in the offences of intentional killing and injury to the body, as has the number of crimes in relation to sexual integrity and self-determination. These are developments that are generally positive, even if, of course, every single occurrence is unfortunate. Overall, it has also proved that police inspections have been combined with the structural reform of the police so that larger units have been created and in this way more safety for the individual executive officers has been achieved. All these measures, including the Special Commissions, Mrs Bundesminister, whom you have used, have proved successful, that can be said overall. We're on a very, very good way. I would think that we should continue this, and this is what we, Mr Darmann, are doing together in this coalition, because, beyond all populist movements, the security of Austrians is a major concern for us.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e11017	The next item is the report by Mr Pilz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e11039	Ladies and gentlemen! If the estimated colleague Amon had added: And that is why we will continue the successful work of the Federal Government!, then at least we should have talked about the political action of the dangerous threat. It just doesn't work like that anymore! Mrs. Federal Minister, you're just coming from fence negotiations. One has to imagine this in this Parliament: They are just coming from fence negotiations with the coalition partner – and the only fence there is currently is the insurmountable fence between the two government parties. And the only thing you might bring together is a regular border crossing between SPÖ and ÖVP – and back again. This is probably the only possible project of this federal government. I ask you: What to do You even? – They are the Minister of the Interior, who warned a year ago that large numbers of refugees, not only from Syria, will come to Austria. You warned in time, and you were right to warn. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] And what happened? – No arrangements have been made, no grounds have been removed, neither the police nor the federal army have been seriously prepared for the escalation of the situation. They act with a fence, with fences in front of the head, and work day and night on how the Minister of the Interior can put a leg to the Minister of Defence and how possible the Minister of Defence of the Interior. This is the only thing that one is currently seeing as a security policy from the Federal Government, and this is irresponsible to the Austrian population and to the victims who are on the run. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I say it quite openly to you: I want in Austria – so that there is no misunderstanding – as few refugees as possible; as few refugees as possible, but not by building barbed wire fences – at any border – but by removing causes of escape in good time. And that means primarily hunger aid at the moment. Refugees in the camps in Lebanon, Jordan, but also in other camps are threatened with hunger. There is no more food, there is no more money, the World Food Programme has been in the end for over a year. No money from Austria, nothing! We're abandoning the people on the spot! And then there is a huge pity of the freedom and individual of the ÖVP, who say: They're coming to us! – Where should they go if we don't help down? What's happening here is completely crazy. It's not only inhuman, it's also crazy! It costs 1 dollar a day in Jordan or Lebanon. [[Call:Then pay it]] It costs at least 20 € per day for inhuman suffering on the run. And this is an inconceivable combination of inhumanity and political stupidity and the inability to understand economically at all, what is feasible and what does not lead to this situation. A second point, Mrs Innenminister, and you are personally responsible for this: I was in Nickelsdorf and I was in Spielfeld, and I talked to a lot of officials – it's quite, very important that we don't let off the officials at the Ministry of Interior right now – and they have to listen and see, they have to watch that there are almost no officials or far too few officials on the border, but then, when Mr. Mensdorff-Pouilly invites them to a wild boar in Burgenland, suddenly there are officials in the shell and plenty! [[Abg. Rädler: Did you donate too?]] I watched a video showing how Mr. Mensdorff-Pouilly can be chauffed into a wild boar in his hunting car and, behind him, fully manned police cars form a giant escort, so that one millimeter of the hunting line against protests can be sealed so that wild boar hunts can be operated unimpeded. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] That's why we have officials and officers! For the protection of the ÖVP Count and his hunting friends there are police officers in abundance – but not for work on the border, for the questions: How do we deal with refugees? How do we protect our own population? What do we do about the terrifying low-reconnaissance rate of crime, especially in the Federal Capital of Vienna? – Not far more than 10 percent is the education rate. Officials everywhere are missing, but when Count Ali calls, the Ministry of the Interior signals: Yes, we have officials for that! We should always see in all this, with this huge arc of responsibilitylessness, of just a dispute in the government in the refugee policy: Even if this is a major problem, at European level, the refugee problem is a problem which can be solved, and Europe has already solved major problems. But until the abuse of police officers and police officers, we face an incomprehensible failure of Austrian security policy, the Minister of the Interior, the Minister of Defence, and in the refugee policy at the end of the day also of the Foreign Minister as the principal responsible. The best security report is useful, since the best figures do not benefit if, unfortunately, the confidence of the Austrian population in security policy is lost in this situation. It is likely that a completely different federal government and completely different interior and defence ministers will need to restore confidence in public security in Austria. Only on this basis, I fear, will there be a reasonable safety report once again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e11109	The next speaker is Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e11130	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciated spectators in front of the screens and on the gallery! High house! I shall try to say something to the safety report; Mr Amon has already tried to present the entire safety report correctly. But let me begin because we are now in a difficult situation, let me thank all Austrians very much, with all the security forces, whether police officers, soldiers or judicial guards, in all those working for the citizens. You understand that I am also very grateful to all NGOs that have been working for our country, for our Austrians for weeks: My personal thanks and respect, but also those of my group! [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If you are in the house longer – I see where Mr Darmann is – then you know when reports come and know the discussions about them. We have already discussed it in committee. I would just like to point out that when a security report comes into the house and when it is treated in the house, we have to discuss it cleanly, so we have to be fair. I would like to make a few comments here – Mr Pilz, you have finally said that the best figures cannot be fooled over the present – so that this does not go down. Everyone who knows me knows that I express myself again and again in person: Every criminal act is too much. But these figures are for Austria, when we look at the figures over many years – Mr Hagen, you should have such a clear look –, good numbers. In particular, I would like to point out that we are really good in both European and international comparisons. Again: Every criminal offence is one too much – we don't have to think about it – but I think it's too short to think of anyone who has and is doing all the savings in the security field. Manch- Sometimes I think you lose or lose some of your sense of reality over the years. For it is already the second federal government in which we are trying, for those people who have been rationalized – Mr Darmann, you must not forget that; at least you can't tell me anything else, because I haven't criticized it here until then – to stop it again. So now we have not only 2 000 executive officers anymore, we have a skipper of administrative support from the post and from everywhere with the transfers. So we did it again, and I thank all our colleagues for helping. With regard to the establishment plan or planning points – we have the budget discussion in Bälde, then we will hear what the individuals say about it – I would like to say that the Council of Ministers has already decided on a further increase, not only as regards the executive as such, but also the Federal Office for Foreign Affairs and Asylum. In the meantime, by the way, we have increased this again by 180 planning points – all of this goes down. Ladies and gentlemen in these areas are doing excellent things, are also motivated, one has to say, otherwise it would not be possible for them to provide these services. That is why I would really like to thank the Executive Members on every occasion. When we talk about security, we also have to say that security is absolutely a cross-sectional matter. And always putting security to one point and believing that you can solve the problem, that will not happen. I stay there – this shows up in real life, also separately from the current situation, and also minces the security report: Investment in training, in education as such, in the social field is also an essential contribution to the classical security sector. It is important that there is not at all the danger of slipping into crime or illegality. And that's why you have to see it as a whole. I really want to thank all those who carry all this along again and again. We also see that we have to try – for the smallest to the elders in society – to create framework conditions that ultimately lead to a successful co-existence in the Austrian population. I think this path is a good one, otherwise these good numbers would not be possible, and I think all the professionals who have dealt with it know that. Finally, I would like to invite you to do so, as well as the discussions on the President-in-Office to deal with the report immediately, regardless of whether he comes a month earlier or later. I do not want to know this as a criticism, but if we need a few months to include the report in the agenda at all, it is up to us. You should be fair anyway. If we criticize, it must have a background, we must not be unfairly criticized – that does not bring us anything. We have it in our hands to shape it together. I think we are on the right track, starting from the present security report, with all the problems we have in the present – Mr Pilz, we do not need to tell each other. To say in general and flat-rate: There are no good security politicians here, I reject that. I know enough good security politicians. I invite you all to do the best for our beloved home, for all Austrians. - Good.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e11202	Mr Hagen. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e11224	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! First of all, I would like to write a letter from the police union of 5. Citing November 2015 – on the statement: These are the black and blue union in common; sorry, not the blue, the red! Black and red, i.e. the government parties. [[Abg. Pendl: The blues are there too!]] There is a need for staff to read, among other things: “With the existing staff, however, it is still not possible to perform at least the ‘normal service’ without overtime arrangement. When extraordinary requirements are added – as we now have them – “the limits of loadability are reached and unfortunately also exceeded.” “The police union” – that is, once again: Black and Red – “demands therefore: another reception offensive without ‘If and But’, the creation of a ‘intake pool’, the creation of a ‘carenz pool’. The limits of loadability must not be exceeded. It must be ensured that even for police officers, the profession and family are compatible and that the maintenance of a social environment is possible. The usual practice that a recording can only be done after one exit causes precisely these holes due to the 2-year training until one has a fully trained official available again.” In the case of remuneration, that is to say, from the 30th century onwards. In the event of sickness, the flat-rate allowances in respect of the salary of executives shall be withdrawn, and so on. Let's remember: I have already called here for the so-called executive service law, which could have been used to remedy it. I have asked here to introduce a border police force to relieve the executives on the ground so that the officials are not deducted from their normal posts, from their normal tasks towards borders in order to care for refugee problems there. And I have also repeatedly pointed out that the officials are completely overburdened. This call for help from the Black and Red Police Union, ladies and gentlemen, confirms in all respects that I have always been right with what I have said from here. We have the problem that the officials are completely overburdened. You know, I'm a police officer myself, and there's a lot of colleagues coming to me that can't be anymore. This is a major problem in the current situation. The 2014 Security Report, which is basically almost two years old, shows that the number of burglaries has increased by 3.4 percent, that sexual offences in foreigners have increased by 60 percent, with drug abuses in foreigners 40 percent plus. – This is foreign crime, including the burglaries, these are organized gangs, everyone knows that. A few days ago, my insurer was at home with me, we worked through the insurance contracts and in certain areas increased slightly. He then told me that he had spoken to police officers and they had entrusted him with the fact that a lot of burglaries in the media are no longer being made public, because they do not want to disturb the people. Ladies and gentlemen, that says a lot! And this is not something I put into space, but these are perceptions of citizens who have to live with this situation and who have to deal with matter. More staff, that's an inevitable thing, Mrs. Federal Minister! In the last five years, they have promised 1 000 executive officials more – with the next year these 1 000 would be fulfilled, so to speak, with the new 200. However, they have said in the Committee on the Interior that 200 of these police officers are being trained as border police, with shorter training, so that they do not need to be available for two years for training, but relatively quickly. That's positive, but that's, of course, far too little. We have the problem that, as has been said, colleagues are totally overburdened that their health situation is massively threatening safety. You have to imagine this, a small example: Executive officials are assigned to the unit of action, have to drive at the borders, have to deal with refugee problems there, then come back, have to do the normal service. Then we have the problem – Mr. Pilz, the police aren't just going after Mensdorff-Pouilly in the pursuits – that we have a lot of demonstrations, often from left chaots that can be assigned to your clientele – we know these ring barriers, we know exactly what is going on in Vienna. That's a big problem. The officials then have to perform additional duties there again. That is, they are often on duty around the clock, have no rest periods, no more family life, where they can consume energy. All of this is a big problem. They all know my application for a separate executive service law – I will reactivate it in the Constitutional Committee next month – so that the officials will have rest periods so that we have enough staff to perform normal service and not have to build everything on overtime, as is the case at present, and that the police will also get a decent salary for what they are doing. We all live in a very safe country – still, I have to say – thanks to these police officers who go up to their burden limits. Look at how many burn-out cases there are now in the executive and how many illnesses due to typical stress diseases: Heart attack, stroke and so on. I have already held a press conference on this, which unfortunately did not find the appropriate appeal in the media, because it has somehow been suppressed. The media were very strongly represented at the time, but unfortunately it did not find everything its rainfall in the media. I would like to say here again that this is a big problem. We need to see that we have healthy police, because then we also have a good work of these police officers, a high intelligence rate and a safe country – and this is what it is all about. We have the 2014 Security Report – you can always juggle with numbers, every report is as good as you design it, you can trick with it, we all know that – but the security is not really as high as we always believe, and the officials are at the limit. That's why we need more executive staff and a real executive law that really meets the officials so that we have rested, well-functioning police who watch over our security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e11263	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Alm – Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e11285	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! Mr Hagen, you are also contributing to the fact that the subjective sense of security in this country is growing rather than growing, although Austria is a very strong country. [[Abg. Lugar: He says the truth!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kitzmüller.]] This also shows this safety report, which reflects the safety situation quite well and generally shows in a positive direction. We would just like this security report to come to Parliament a little earlier. You must be careful – without speaking small numbers in this form – that you do not allow misinterpretations in the quantifications. I'll give you two examples. For example, the duration of the procedure, which has been shortened, is of course not enough, as a quality feature alone, because there are such things as the division, where the procedure becomes longer due to several conversations and delays. The aim is not to keep the proceedings short, but the goal must be to protect society as best as possible from the perpetrators who may commit this act again, for a third of the convicted has not learned anything about it in prison and is in court within four years. That is the real challenge of criminal justice in this case. The second point: Cybercrime. There is a decline in the number of ads, and this is certainly not due to the fact that this is really less happening, but in particular the expression of a lack of resources or a lack of know-how. I can tell you a story that I experienced a few years ago at the European Forum Alpbach. There someone from an investigative authority has referred and freely admitted, without need, that investigations can only be carried out in the area of Windows computers, because there is no Apple computer in that authority. That means you can imagine that we are not behind this for a year, but a little more. This is also the criticism of the safety report I would like to put forward here: that there are certain things that are not contained in this safety report, namely the whole subject complex of surveillance. We have repeatedly encouraged the establishment of a monitoring account. Mr Pendl, too, meant that security was a cross-sectional matter. It is all the more necessary to carry out this overall monitoring account than you – and you, Mrs. Minister, are so happy to talk about prevention – are focusing your work above all on investing in investigation-preparing measures, i.e. ensuring prevention by collecting as much data as possible. That is why we need to talk again about the storage of data that is now coming to Germany, which will come to the UK, which is proven that it is not working, of which we also know that it represents a massive intervention in civil fundamental rights, and that has been prevented by the ECJ and VfGH, not least because of that. It is therefore pointless and unbearable for both reasons, as is the discussion about the Federal Trojans, which we now have to hold, as well as the debates on the State Protection Act, which will also result in more data being collected again. This includes cooperation with intelligence services – keyword BND. I would ask you to remind your German colleague Angela Merkel of her own statement: “Explor among friends, that’s not possible.” Just this weekend we got another occasion for this memory. In addition, there are things like passenger name record, the access of financial authorities to traffic and operating data, fingerprints, account insights. The surveillance state sickers very slowly, it is hidden in many laws, so that you lose the overview very slowly, because it is more convenient to simply collect these data and bend the fundamental rights, than to develop sensible methods of investigation. That is why I make the following two requests: [[Quoted print version removed]] The second request: Motion for a resolution by Mr Magnette. Alm, colleague and colleagues on ‘Systematic monitoring accounts’ The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Government is invited to provide the National Council with a systematic analysis and evaluation of all investigation methods and powers to be monitored by people within one year. Following this, an intensive review of the results must be carried out and measures which are not necessary or not proportionate should be repealed. Similarly, all future laws that intervene in the freedom of citizens must be reviewed annually for their need and proportionality and, in doubt, repealed." Please let us put in place this account, evaluate existing and new methods, also abolish unnecessary powers and do not adopt new laws, which we already know are an over-intervention in fundamental rights. – Winter is coming.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e11349	The two motions for resolutions are properly put in place, sufficiently supported and are therefore under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e11462	For a statement, Mrs. Federal Minister Mag. Mikl's head of speech reported. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e11483	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Dear ladies and gentlemen at the visitor gallery! If you listen to one or another Member, you get the feeling that you are not talking about the Austrian security report, but about another. I can give you some figures, facts and figures of the Austrian security report, which looks very good and with which you can make a good comparison in the long run, say within the last ten years, especially as far as the crime rate is concerned. Ten years ago, the number of crimes was 604,000, 546,000 in 2013, and only around 527,700 in 2014. This results in, mathematically calculated, a decrease in crime of 3.4 percent. If you look at the individual crime fields, you can also see a very good, positive development here. I am thinking about car thefts, for example, where a decrease of 13.8 percent is due. Let us look at the area of deliberate killing: There is also a drop from 31.8 percent to 107 cases. Let us look at the field of economic and fraud: There is an ad reduction of 9.8 percent. In the area of cybercrime, too, there is a 10.8 percent decrease. This means that the developments, the investments of recent years are paying off. I am thinking here of the development of the Cyber Security Strategy, of the establishment of the Cybercrime Competence Centre. This year, it was important for us to rely on international cooperation and, above all, to force cooperation with law enforcement authorities at international level. In particular, I would like to emphasise the establishment and opening of the INTERPOL External Office in Singapore, which is an external office that supports the individual countries intensively and comprehensively in the fight against cybercrime. That is, we are working closely with both INTERPOL and Europol. Ladies and gentlemen! Let us not only look at the crime rate, but above all at the Enlightenment rate. We can be proud of the success of the reconnaissance rate at 43.1 percent. That's the highest value for the third time. In the case of the violent offences, we have an investigation rate of 82.8 percent, which is also a maximum of the last few years. For all these successes – both in the area of crime decline and in the education rate – I am allowed to join all police officers for her large-scale I would like to thank you very much for your commitment and their competence. That is why I would like to express my warm thanks at this point. [[It was in favour of the ÖVP, of representatives of SPÖ and of Deputies Hable and Lintl.]] They all know that crime prevention is important not only to us, but also to the prevention sector. This is a focus that we are constantly setting, a focus which we want to develop in the future. In 2014 alone, it was possible to advise 385 255 people and to provide comprehensive information, as prevention is simply better than intervention. The SOKO East is also a success story, in which we can always have successes. A top topic – not only in 2014, but especially this year, in 2015 – is the whole area of asylum and tourism. Last year alone, from 2013 to 2014, we had an increase in the number of asylum applications of 60.1 percent. Today we have to expect a threefold increase in asylum applications. What about the change in asylum applicants? – Last year the first were in the ranking Syrians, Afghans and citizens of the Russian Federation. Has the ranking changed with regard to the applicant for asylum changed this year? – In one place the Syrians remain, in second place the Afghans and in third place the Iraqis. That is, there was a change in the area of asylum seekers. At this point I would like to say a warm thank you for the great support from the aid organizations – Caritas, Diakonie, the Red Cross, the workers'-Samariter-Bund – for the really great performance of the last months and the last weeks in the field of foreigners, asylum seekers or those who have been driven through with us. But I am grateful not only to these aid organisations, but to the entire area of administration – above all the Federal Office for Foreign Affairs and Asylum – and, of course, to the police, because every stranger must be treated by the administration and by the police. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, I should like to remind you that asylum and migration are not only a subject of the interior, but also all the other sectors with which we have already set many priorities in the areas of labour market, integration and education, because this is just as important there as it is in our area. We know that the issue of asylum and xenophobia is closely linked to to tow crime, a phenomenon that we have been fighting for years, in which it is also possible not only to put in place national measures but also international measures. In recent years, a tow database has been established, the FIMATHU towing database, which is extremely helpful to us in the investigation against tow crime, and thus the success rate is constantly rising again and again. There is, of course, close cooperation with Europol. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, there is of course a lot to be done in the area of state protection, even there are many challenges. I am thinking of the increase in the area of right-wing extremism by 2.3 percent in 2014 – this is to be read in the security report. They all know the discussion about the State Protection Act-new. For one and a half years, we have discussed this State Protection Act intensively. We have already adopted the State Protection Act in the Council of Ministers, and I hope that this evening we will be able to consult this State Protection Act again in committee and then decide to be well positioned for the new phenomena – from cybercrime to extremism to jihadism. This means that our constitutional protection simply needs the appropriate instruments at hand, and you have it in your hand to conclude them as soon as possible so that good work can be carried out there. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! To sum up, one can say – especially if one adheres to the figures, data and facts of the security report – that the police have done enormously good work and that it is above all required to do good work in the future. It has already been mentioned: Yes, the police are at the border of their burden, but the Federal Government has also agreed that there will be 2,000 new police officers in addition, and we are now, in January, already training 200 people into border police so that our colleagues can actually be supported at the border. That is, the Federal Government, the coalition was faster here than the union. I agree with the union that it needs more staff. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In this sense, I would like to express my warm thanks to the entire Ministry of the Interior and, above all, to the police. I would also like to thank security spokesmen Otto Pendlund Werner Amon, who are always available for a constructive discussion, for a positive discussion when it comes to developing things – whether in the asylum system, in the foreign system, in the foreign sector, in the field of cybercrime or also in the field of state protection – and for this also a warm thank you to the two mentioned gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e11602	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e11624	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Yes, you can read a lot from this security report with figures, data, facts. One can also scratch in the past, in which very different statistical parameters have been used in part. They know of the cleansing of how many crimes have then been summarized in the investigation. I don't want to spread about that. The fact is that the Austrians have a massive security need. This is not just about the question of a security feeling, because a feeling can sometimes be deceptive and does not help you the best sense of security in itself if one is robbed of his wallet within the next two minutes. That is, the need for real security is there, and the people who work in Austria, the people who pay their taxes in Austria, who pay more and more taxes in Austria, also have a right to use this money to create this security where it is about body, life and wealth, even about groups of various other offences. One of the troubling points that Austrians, Austrians and even people who are legal in this country address is the question of international migration through our country, which is currently taking place. It's disturbing. I come to the following because Mrs Korun has spoken of the Greens: It is about Senegalese fishermen who are no longer able to catch tuna under an EU Treaty and are therefore forced to flee. These are economic refugees. And from a lack of tuna fishing, I can't take from God's gene- far refugee convention. We are against illegal immigration under the title of asylum. I would like to make that clear. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have also heard from the Member of the European Parliament Reimon that his interest in refugee policy is that people, especially children, are saved from drowning from the Mediterranean – yes! – but obviously his colleague Korun has made the same restriction that they should not be rescued from a Greek military ship, because that might be something else. But, of course, warships are not only there to shoot – as this Mrs Korun says – but also to secure borders and, above all, to save people from drowning in water, because that does every ship and every crew. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] But let us also come to other areas of justice, which have recently been called into question in Austria: Yes, we have the right to demonstration and assembly freedom, but this right does not at the same time mean the right to throw stones or anything else on others or go to the police. We also have the right to free movement in the EU, but this does not mean that people from the EU, from the Balkans come to us and, for example, in Krems, facilitate a girl by 2 €. There is also the right to asylum. But this right to asylum does not mean that the Republic of Austria is allowed to lie in the asylum procedure. There is no right to file false documents in asylum proceedings, such as fake Syrian passports. Nor does the right to asylum bring with it the right to demold, demilitate, destroy Austrian tractors in order to restore them to tax costs. Nor does the right to asylum bring with it the right to do black work and to commit social fraud. Nor does the right to asylum include facilitating a young woman – as in horn – by 100 €. The right to asylum does not include the right – as in Traiskirchen – to physically harass and sexually attack young women. The right to asylum in Austria does not include the right to choose whether the child is being taught by a teacher or whether the sick person is examined and treated by a doctor. [[Abg. Honey: We can also summarize it...!]] Mrs Schatz, you are allowed to report afterwards, because I understand you very badly. I have a microphone, and unfortunately you have God's silent voice, so I haven't heard what you said now. [[Call the Greens.]] The right to asylum in Austria does not include assessing the value of women as secondary. Nor does the right to asylum mean a right to exercise religious law, state constitutional law, fundamental law or the rule of law of the laizist state. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak.]] All of this must not exist, people expect it, there must be the appropriate security for it. There are a number of political groups in this House who do not see this exactly.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e11694	The next item is the speech by Mr Singer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e11716	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The 2014 Security Report provides a comprehensive report on developments in security-related areas. Our Federal Minister has already done this very thoroughly, I can only repeat it briefly. Lowering figures for ads, the education rate is one of the highest in the last ten years, a low level of convictions: All these are facts and facts that prove that Austria is a safe country, especially in comparison to the European neighbours and to the other countries of the world. Of course, every criminal case is one too much, but the development of total crime shows a falling trend. This is very encouraging for me, of course, because there are a number of areas of crime which show declining numbers. It has already been mentioned that there is a positive trend in the murder, injury, sexual offences, car thefts, economic offences, and a positive reconnaissance rate. Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, there are not only positive reports, but also increases in some areas. For example, in the security report, an increase of 3.4 percent has been reported in the case of house and housing collapses. However, if the figures from 2005 are compared, one can see that there is also a fall in this area. For me, it is very important that the police in this area – for which I would like to thank the police – carry out educational work that at various events and fairs they lead the population to self-protection – an important area – in order to achieve awareness. The report can be seen that 385 000 people have been alerted throughout Austria and across all the criminal groups accordingly. This is certainly very positive. A second area where we need to see increases is politically motivated crime, both from the right and from the left. Ladies and gentlemen! When we talk about security, the police, the justice, the federal army staff are closely associated with it. In the last few months, many things have been done very impossible, and our security forces have gone to the limit of loadability. I too would like to express my thanks – as has already been done many times today. However, it must be clear to all of us that security also costs money and that it is necessary to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e11765	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out – as I have noticed – that according to house rules phone calls with phones are prohibited during the session. The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Walser. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e11789	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Dear visitors! I would like to start with a quote: “At events of several striking student connections, foreign – in particular German – right-wing extremists appeared as participants and speakers.” It also says: “The under-restrained right-wing ideology spread is still given special attention within the meaning of the Security Police Act.” These are sentences which I have unfortunately not taken from the security report, but from the right-wing extremism report. It is the last legal extremism report that appeared in Austria, that was in 2001. Since then, there has been no legal extremism report. At that time, the crimes were penable, particularly in connection with civil society, particularly in connection with crimes committed by members of the FPÖ, officials of the FPÖ. Since then, the number of FPÖ crimes has not been reduced in this context – quite the contrary, we have almost daily any so-called individual cases associated with FPÖ officials, they are partially thrown out of their ranks, they have to leave, however, but the potential for danger has increased dramatically. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Does he have his dreams written by the oillinger?]] Mr Singer mentioned political crimes before, but unfortunately the jubilation reports are not quite as encouraging. Right-wing actions: plus 30 percent last year, the number of persons shown in connection with right-wing extremism: plus 24 percent. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Did the Greens do something about it?]] It would be urgently necessary – Mr Rosenkranz, you will become nervous on this issue, I know – to have a legal extremism report in Austria again. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] In this context, I have received or read a report from the Hamburg Constitutional Protection for 2014. It is interesting – usually not of great relevance to Austria – when the Hamburg Constitutional Protection reports on the conditions in the burgers. The Hamburg Constitutional Protection reports that since the takeover of the German Burschenschaft by the Vienna academic Burschenschaft Teutonia there has been a whole series of incidents of scandalous nature that there has been a record number of withdrawals from the Burschenschaft. [[Call the FPÖ: You don't know each other!]] So I'd like to say it like this: Citizens are not exactly considered to be left-wing, they are not even considered liberal, they are considered to be strong German-national. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Bravo!]] These citizens, however, who are on the ground of the rule of law, are leaving the German civil society, because the Austrian citizens – I think you are also a member of such a civil society – have increasingly taken over the leadership there. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Thank God!]] That's where I have to say: In the meantime, the Austrians represent one third of all members; in the even further right-wing Allianz Burschenschaftliche Gemeinschaft, it is even half. It would be urgent to reintroduce such a legal extremism report. It would be urgent to look at the great European networking meeting of right-wing extremism, organized annually by you – at least from your dark circle, that of the right-wing roller in the Hofburg – because these are regular guests of the entire European right-wing extremism. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein:... not the FPÖ Vienna that organizes this! You still don't know that?]] For example, there are people – who can be seen on photos with Hitler greeting – like Kevin Hauer, who can be pictured with a Hitler portrait, permanent guest, who are people like Fred Duswald from Upper Austria. They all know them, I don't have to mention them any more. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] The fact is that there is considerable need for information in your dark circle is that, unfortunately, in Austria we do not have a legal extremism report anymore, the fact is that social democracy has promised to become active in this regard. Unfortunately, in the government you are obviously not willing to enforce it. Mrs Minister, it is not only about combating crime, it is also about prevention; it should be clarified. I therefore urge you to become active in this regard.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e11920	The next item is Mrs Lueger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e11941	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Fellow Members of the High House! Dear visitors! I think it is quite exciting that the FPÖ has rejected it in the Committee, that we have ended the report in the Committee, and in the end we have called for the debate here. This is a legitimate right. But the speakers who have referred to this report have not said anything to the report at all and have actually used the situation only to show once again the difficult political situation that we have faced in relation to the people who flee from war and murder. [[Abg. Darmann: Numbers! Listen!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] Nevertheless, I would like to return to the safety report. We have already heard in several statements that the number of ads has decreased, that this was the lowest in the last ten years, compared with this awareness ratio of 43 percent. I would like to return once again to the five areas of crime, namely the areas of crime in terms of housing and housing which, as we know, are now problematic in the dusk. But the then report also shows an increase of 3.4 percent. However, we have learned from the Director-General that the Master Plan has been tied on the basis of the old figures and is now being further developed. We hope that the effects of this analysis will be felt next year. In addition, there are also the hotspots of the police, which leads to the use of police strips in these regions. The car theft has, as we have heard, gone down, so I would like to strip it very briefly. In the case of violent offences, the figures have also decreased in the event of deliberate killing, intentional injury and in the case of crimes against sexual integrity and self-determination, and I must stress: Every single case is a case too much. What is in this case – if you can speak of gratifyingly – is a positive aspect, is that the education rate in this area is 82.8 percent. What I think is worrying and what the security report also shows is an increase in the legal and illegal possession of firearms, which is certainly also linked to the fact that people personally feel insecure. [[Onion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] But I think it's crazy that you're getting illegally shotguns, and I'm talking about being safer with them. That is why I ask you, Madam Minister of the Interior, to draw your conclusions from them and act against them. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: The conclusions are clear!]] We have already discussed the issue of cybercrime; Economic crime, too. On the subject of extremism – as I would like to add to Mr Walser's remarks, as we believe that this is a very important problem: I almost see the changes in the social environment that are emerging right now as a threat scenario. These new phenomena, that since 2014 the right-wing extreme scene has increasingly appeared in the public and that is actually already part of it, are really worrying. That's why I'm trying to put pressure on it again. It is not enough to set up extremism as a general social measure, but to do so requires greater action. I would like to draw my remarks to the subject of juvenile offenders who have been sentenced to court. It is a positive outcome from this report that something is already happening. Thanks to the good cooperation – in the example of the Vienna Jugendgerichtshilfe – young people who were sentenced to prison are being prepared again for a life in freedom through support offers for the communication of knowledge, information events, anti-violence training, always in cooperation with the judicial staff. That is also the reason why we will always use this safety report as the basis for improvements and changes. We will therefore take note of this and draw the corresponding conclusions together with the coalition partner. Nevertheless, thank you very much to Mrs. Minister. Stocking Executive: Yes, thank you very much, but with good training and good equipment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e12006	The next item is the speech by Mr Lausch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e12043	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I also come to the 2014 Security Report, an outdated report, as we have already heard; I do not want to spread about it now. Mrs Federal Minister and, above all, Members of the Government Party! Do you know what scares people? – As far as she is concerned. Fears make people break into their homes, into their homes, when offenders have access to their own property and property. That's scared. There's no way to talk about the 2014 security report, because what scares people outside – that's what you hear when you talk to them – has increased by 3.4 percent. Many of my previous speakers have only looked at the safety report superficially. But if you go into the depths, you can see clearly that, for example, in the 9th century. Wiener Gemeinschaft increased the crime rate by 31 percent, but at the same time the education rate fell by 12.4 percent. But not only in Vienna – you always say: good, that's Vienna! – which is bad enough, because Vienna is a core zone of our Republic, but it is also terrifying in Lower Austria, considering the facts shown in this security report. In the Gmünd district, for example, the crime rate increased by 12.8 percent, with the education rate falling by 23.6 percent. In the district of Baden, crime rose by 15.9 percent, and so on and so on, Bruck an der Leitha; this could be continued endlessly. If you look at the report a little more accurately, you can see that this is not an anthem. But one thing has to be said, Mr Walser, you stand here and say that you are calling for the reintroduction of the right-wing extremism report: Let us look at a left-wing extremism report, of course there should be something like that, and I would like to have a damage report, which members of the couleur associated with you have done in this federal capital. Since you mention the academic ball so fluffy: This evening, crime will not take place in Hofburg, where it will take place somewhere else, where it will take place in the streets of Vienna. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walser.]] And there are still Members of your group who are crucial in making a bad mood. This scares the police when you throw paving stones on police who carry out their daily duty – and do it well despite this federal government. That's what's afraid, and that's what scares the people. If you talk to the businessmen at the grave, you will find out how much the left demonstrators were afraid of there! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Don't do everything and don't always represent your couleur's relatives as the nation's innocence lambs! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walser.]] There you have to light both sides already, there you can't easily create yourself here and not even lose a word about the security report. You have not even lost a word on the report because you have not looked at it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is your problem, Mr Walser, that you are always only beating the polemic keules, but you have not even lost a word of death on the report – I have to give it to Mr Lueger. Nothing! [[Abg. Walser:... is in the report anyway!]] I have to tell you to make yourself up here, to say that and to ask for it – but that is significant for your policy, the You do – it's almost embarrassing! Talk to the police about what scares them! That would be good for you, Mr. Walser, if you did. [[Abg. Walser: Do me daily!]] I have to say, even if I'm loyal, that's good, I'm going to do it with it, but you should live it in the government work, too. Mr Gerstl, you find this funny, I am glad, but it is always representatives of your couleur who are making and thanking themselves here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gerstl]] But then plans will be shortened! Finally, Mrs Bundesminister: They say that there are two thousand more police officers here, and the Federal Government will enforce it, and so on and so on. If you only look at the number of burglaries in apartments and houses and the thefts of Hab und Gut, then you have to say that you have contributed significantly with the closure of police services. This is forgotten in times like this. Look at this report, look at your report more closely! Just where you went and ran kahlschlag at the police stations, that's where crime is increasing according to this security report. You have to say that clearly and clearly. And you can't always pretend to be all right. We live in a safe country. That's good. This should remain the same despite this federal government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e12139	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Gerstl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e12161	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Lausch, you disagree with every execution you make. [[Abg. Darmann: But go!]] On the one hand, you complain and on the other hand you say in the closing phrase: We live in a safe country. – So there is nothing more to complain about, Mr Lausch! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Lausch: Yes, and that despite this federal government! You don't understand!]] [[Abg. Darmann: You put this security at risk!]] I can still write to colleagues from the FPÖ and the Greens in the main book: Ladies and gentlemen of FPÖ and Greens, security is not a matter of party policy; security is about all Austrians. Therefore, do not always distinguish between left-wing extremism and right-wing extremism, but see that we are fighting for security in Austria! There is an example of this safety report, a model in which both are treated evenly. It is not about blinding one eye or the other eye, but about setting the best measures for the safety of Austria for all Austrians. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Rosenkranz, because you have mentioned the need for human safety before [[call to the FPÖ]] In my opinion, there is an example that has been published from the Ministry of the Interior in recent days, which is really exemplary in ensuring that the Ministry of the Interior, with its officials, is exemplary about the security of Austria. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: The officials, yes!]] Take the special commission KFZ: It is quite exactly six years since the SOKO KFZ was founded in the Federal Criminal Office. Since then, cars worth €14 million have been secured, over 500 suspects have been investigated, 250 people have been arrested, and – most importantly – since then the number of car thefts has fallen by two thirds. Ladies and gentlemen, this deserves an applause for all officials who have ensured that the security of Austria is advanced, indeed almost perfect. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP, as well as with representatives of SPÖ, FPÖ and Greens.]] But let me say, ladies and gentlemen, to the politically motivated crimes, because I believe that they show that not the Minister of the Interior can provide Austrian security alone, but that we, as citizens and as politicians, must pay particular attention when it comes to the security of Austria. If we find that in the field of left-wing extremism in 2014, the number of acts doubled, and if I read in the report that at rallys at the edge of the Vienna academic ball groups and people of the far-left spectrum were involved, members of the Black Block engaged in acts of violence that had a new quality in scope and intensity, then I believe that especially we politicians are called on to show on such political groups that are politically motivated to influence that one cannot solve problems by force. Ladies and gentlemen, this is our responsibility. It's not about heating up, it's about: What are we going to say? How do we communicate situations that are not pleasing? How do we communicate situations that may be unique that may not have existed in this Second Republic? How do we address problems? And how do we enable problem-solving capacities? – Not by accusing, not by condemning others, but by deliberately working together on solutions. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, please support the Interior Minister in creating a new State Protection Act, support the Interior Minister in the creation of new staff posts, support the Interior Minister – Mr Lueger has said it – also in the equipment! Body-Worn Cameras are the next point we need. This too is already hidden in a draft for the new State Protection Act. Therefore, I ask you to support you in order to increase support for the Minister of the Interior, then we do not need to be afraid of the security of Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e12274	Next come Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e12296	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! First of all: Mrs Lueger, I do not fully understand your criticism. They are excited that the FPÖ wanted to discuss the safety report in plenary. So I believe that this is a very important report, that it also interests people outside and that this is something we should definitely discuss here. And if Mr Lueger – who is no longer inside – is here and says that none of the FPÖ Members has said something to the report, please send her out: Our first speaker, Mr Darmann, has mentioned all the figures, but I can repeat them. 527 700 ads in about last year, that is, in clear text, still one crime per minute. Mrs. Federal Minister, now I'm coming to you. It may be that the statistical part is such that you say the crime goes back. But I'm telling you something else. I know a lot of people who say I'm not going to show this anymore, I'm not going anymore, because it doesn't matter because the perpetrators aren't being researched at all, it's all very much effort, the police officers are already overwhelmed. I also understand that they are overpowered not only in the current situation, but also because of the staff they have. Another thing that many people feel as a threat, which can often not always be presented in this way in a statistics: This is, for example, the drug crime, the street crime, which can already be seen at every subway station, especially in Vienna, in almost every place. I would particularly like to highlight the underground station U6 Josefstädter Straße. According to your report, exactly in the two adjacent districts, crime has officially declined, subjective security has been felt, and, honestly, Mrs Minister, even the objective one, when one looks at it, has certainly become worse. That means, of course, one can juggle with a statistics and one can always say that it will all be better. However, people do not believe it because they see it differently and because they feel it different. And that is exactly the problem I see with all these statistics. To keep up with drug statistics: It is interesting to note, for example, that the basic table no longer lists cases of the addiction law. While that was still inside in 2013, it is now outside. So a little bit of a work is already being done with such a safety report. And I think – if you do this honestly, and that is why you should discuss this here too – you should also take the fears and problems of the population seriously. My previous speaker, Mr Lausch, said that a break-in into the home is something that is particularly straining on a person, not only because of the material damage that arises there, but also because it is a break-in into the intimate atmosphere, into his retreat area. That's the worst thing that can happen to a human being, everything is stifled, all personal utensils are removed. That's why it's what people are most concerned about: Intrusion in apartments or in houses that they are plagued that they will be attacked – in subway stations, in public transport – that's exactly what it is. But these are the things that often don't even show up. If the money bag is stolen and there were no ID cards inside, but it was only cash inside, then I can assure you that you are not going to show it again, because it doesn't do anything. It doesn't make any sense at all. You're only going to show it if you need the display for duplicates of IDs. That's the thought behind it. Of course, then the number of ads is falling, and of course you can make yourself and say: In the last ten years, things have gotten better in Austria. Mrs Bundesminister, nothing has gotten better, it has become much worse the subjective sense of security – as previous speakers have said. People are scared. They often no longer trust in the house at dusk, for example in Vienna. Since I know many, many people who are not so good on their legs anymore, who are older, who say, when it's dim – now at 4 p.m. in winter – I'm not going out of the house anymore because I'm afraid. If you hear something like this and then make yourself here and say it's all got better, then I'd like to invite you: Walk with me through the narrow streets of Vienna, through the narrow alleys of a Vienna external district and then get back here and say: It's all better!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e12351	Mr President, the next item is the report (Doc. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e12372	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Enforcement, courage to also call for measures that are in the hands of some, and a high level of sense of responsibility are necessary in order to ensure comprehensive security in Austria. Our Minister of the Interior Mikl- Leitner is highly responsible and outstanding for this. A clear sign of this is given by the Security Report, which shows that overall crime has fallen again and that the Enlightenment Rate is consistently high. Austria is becoming more and more secure, and this can be seen in the European comparison. A very special thanks goes to all the police in this country, but also to the criminal officials and to the judicial staff, for they ensure that the Austrians can feel really safe. Last year, the investigation rate in the case of violent offences has reached a maximum value of 82.8 percent. I think it's quite positive that the ads are falling. If it were 604,000 ads per year ten years ago, it was 527 692 last year. I would like to add some further information and facts to the debate on the security situation in the country. For example, just recently, Statistics Austria published the study “How is Austria?” and this study shows that the quality of life in this country is very, very high. [[Abg. Pendl: I think so too!]] The general satisfaction of life on a scale of zero, i.e. not satisfied at all, up to ten, very satisfied, has been evaluated in Austria with an average of 7.8. Internationally, in the EU comparison, we are on 7.1 points. However, if you look more closely at the study, you also have to say that the feeling of uncertainty has increased slightly in recent years, because in 2014, 13.4 percent of the population said that they perceive vandalism, crime and violence as a problem. The EU cut here is 14.1 percent. Thus, despite high quality of life, this consciousness increases slightly towards insecurity. It is precisely here that it is appropriate to take people's fears seriously and to react with targeted measures, whether in the area of border protection or in the fight against crime. We must jointly ensure that the rule of law, stability and public order remain consistent through targeted controls in the future, and I think that this is a common mission for all parties represented in Parliament.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e12409	Next, Mrs Lintl will speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e12430	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Pendl called safety a cross-sectional matter. Yes, it is a term associated with great emotions, and the Austrians have a right to safety and protection, which is a core task of the state. We also pay immensely high taxes for this. After the war, our mothers and fathers built a land where everyone could feel secure. Compassion and willingness to help were also held high when neighbouring countries needed help. In the course of this continuing wave of refugees, however, the mood is now tilting among the population, from the initial willingness to help in the direction of fear. This is understandable when the people in the news see pictures of police and soldiers at the borders that are defeated by the refugees who are storming. It is no wonder that the mayors affected by it speak of an organizational fiasco in view of such conditions. The sense of security of the Austrians is also not increased when they see police and soldiers wearing white protective masks, although it is always claimed from the official side that there is no risk of infectious diseases, which we have not had for a long time. This is also a small detail with great effect. The 2014 Security Report also reduces the subjective security feelings of the Austrians. Key statements such as an increase in the number of asylum applications, an increase in the proportion of foreigners in the convictions and a sharp increase in the number of asylum applications are clearly perceived by the population. This is also demonstrated by the continued increase in arms purchases and the accumulation of alarm equipment. Dealers across Austria confirm above all the increase in sales of shotguns, pepper sprays and batons, which you can get relatively easily. However, it must not be possible for the Austrians to take over the task of the state and protect themselves. On the contrary: It is the duty of the Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development. However, as an additional measure, further increase of staff and, above all, good equipment must be ensured. The police union calls for better staff management of the Ministry of the Interior to meet the increased requirements. The operational forces are currently required in time, physically and emotionally to the limit. This abuse belongs immediately fixed. Similarly, the sense of security will not be enhanced if the Austrians have to consider how the Federal Government is breaking laws on a regular basis – EU standards as well as Austrian laws and, above all, the Foreign Police Act – or does not implement them. For this reason, the motion for a resolution by Mr Darmann and Mr Strache, which calls for the effective protection of the national borders, is in agreement.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e12476	The next item is the speech by Mr Gahr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e12497	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The 2014 Security Report, which has now been discussed intensively, shows that the security devices are functioning in Austria and that the tasks and requirements set are to a great extent fulfilled. The report does not show that everything is going perfectly and that everything can be fulfilled by a hundred percent, but that the task of ensuring safety is carried out with high responsibility. However, the safety report also clearly points out that there are still new dangers and threats that the system is demanding, and that new challenges to the systems, but also, of course, to the people who are carrying out security tasks. Overall, it has already been critically identified today that there is political and worldlyly motivated crime and that this crime rate has risen quite a bit. The number of crimes in the far right area has increased dramatically, including those in the far left area. What caused the BMI to do? – The training of officials has been strengthened and intensified. Another area is private intrusion, which has also increased. There are also measures to be taken. There has been increased awareness and prevention work, the development and intensification of international cooperation has been pursued, and the police strips have been used in areas particularly affected in order to increase security visibly. The 2014 Security Report is not a confession report, and there are quite different views, but it clearly shows: Internal security in Austria works, security systems work in practice, and the risks and risks are recognised and taken seriously. It was thanked more often today. I think we should be grateful to all those who work for security, including our Minister of State Mikl-Leiter and our Minister of State Brandstetter, for the cooperation that works and for the further development of security and for the development of the population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e12537	I call Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e12561	Mr President. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! According to the 2014 Security Report, there is a new low level of ads and convictions. It has already been mentioned before, the creation of a statistics is always to be questioned, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. In 2014, 527 692 ads were made for criminal acts, which we have already heard. And there was an education rate of 43.1 percent. According to the Security Report, in Austria – and we have already heard this today – we have an increase in the number of burglaries and a decrease in violent offences. But we also have to add – I think Mrs Belakovich-Jenewein has mentioned – that there are many people who no longer show the thefts, especially, ladies and gentlemen, High House, as regards thefts on construction sites of machines and cables, as far as bicycle thefts and the like are concerned. We know that a lot of company owners and Monteure don't show this crime anymore because they say nothing comes out anyway. Ladies and gentlemen! That's it! The facts are such that the data and figures in the security report no longer appear if these acts are not indicated. It is very striking that many non-Austrian people are condemned or condemned in terms of denunciations in the case of thefts and burglaries. So, non-Austrian! You, Mrs Minister, have referred to it, I believe it is important, necessary and right that the police get more personnel so that security in Austria is almost guaranteed. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e12588	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does one of the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 1: Request of the Committee on Internal Affairs to take note of this 2014 Security Report, III-195 of the Supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Darmann, ladies and gentlemen, on border security measures. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. That's why I'm doing this. The ballots to be used are in the drawers of the Members' House and bear the name of the Members and the name "Yes" – these are the grey ballots – or "No" – which are the pink ones. Only those official votes can be used for the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I would like to ask those Members who are in favour of the motion for a resolution by the honourable Members. Darmann, ladies and gentlemen, vote in favour of the motion for a resolution on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. The vote will be taken at the next voting time. Please be careful to throw only one vote mark! I now ask the rapporteur, Mrs Mag. musiol start with the name call; Mr Gahr will replace them later.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e12686	The vote will end. The officials of the House responsible for this task will now make the number of votes under the supervision of the Correspondents. To this end, I am interrupting the session for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e12725	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. Members cast: 153; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 34, No votes: 119. The motion for a resolution by the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Darmann, ladies and gentlemen, on border security measures, is therefore rejected. According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Belakovich-Jenewein, Brückl; Darmann, Deimek, Dietrich, Doppler, Hackl Heinz-Peter, Hafenecker, Hagen, Haider, Höbart, Hofer, Hübner; Jannach; Karlsböck, Kassinger, Kitzmüller, Kumpitsch; Lausch, Lintl, Lugar Robert; Smoke Walter, Rosary Barbara, Rosary Walter; Schellenbacher, Schenk, Schimanek, Schmid Gerhard, Schrangl, Stefan, Steger, Steinbichler, Strache; Singer. Members voted with ‘No’: Amon Werner, Antoni, Aslan, Aubauer, Auer, Bacher Walter, Bayr, Becher Ruth, Berlakovich, Brunner, Buchmayr, Bures; Cap; Diesner-Wais, strike-through; Ecker, Ehmann, El Habbassi, Ertlschweiger, Eßl, Fazekas, Fichtinger Klaus Uwe, Fekter, Fichtinger Angela, Franz; Gahr, Gamon Claudia Angela, Gerstl, Gessl-Ranftl, Greiner Karin, Grillitsch, Groiß, Grossmann, Gusenbauer-Jäger; Hakel Elisabeth, Hammer Michael, Hanger Andreas, Haubner, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Himmelbauer, Hofinger Manfred, Höfinger Johann, Holzinger-Vogtenhuber, Huainigg; Jank, Jarmer, Jarolim; Karl, Kirchgatterer, Knes, Köchl, Königsberger-Ludwig, Krainer Kai Jan, Krist, Kucharovich, Kucher, Kuntzl; Lettenbichler, light picker, lipitsch, loacker, lopatka, lueger Angela; Matznetter, Maurer, Mayer, Moser, Muchich, Mückstein, Musiol, Muttonen; Rebaur Kathrin; Obernosterer, kilnauer, ottenschlager; Pendl, Pfurtscheller, Pillow, Pirklhuber, Plessl, Preiner, Prince; Rädler, Rasinger, Rauch Johannes; Schabhüttl, Schatzhorn, Scherak, Schieder, Schittenhelm, Schmid Julian, Schmid Julian, Schmier, Schönegger, Schopf, Schultes, Sieber Norbert, Singer Johann, Spindelberger, Steinacker, Strasser; Tumandl, daughters, door; sub-railers; Of a thickness Walser, Weninger, Willi, Wimmer, tiny, Wittmann, Wevinger, Worm Gisela; Yılmaz; Zakostelsky.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e12888	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Alm, colleagues on ‘Evaluation of fundamental rights-saving methods of education’. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Alm, ladies and gentlemen on ‘Systematic monitoring accounts’. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 2: Proposal from the Committee on Internal Affairs to take note of its report 864 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. [[14:32:17]] 3rd. Point Report by the Committee on Internal Affairs on Amendment No 1313/A(E) by Dr Nikolaus Scherak, colleagues on private accommodation of asylum seekers in the authorisation procedure (857 d.a.) 4. Point Report by the Committee on Internal Affairs on Amendment 1382/A(E) by Dr Nikolaus Scherak, colleagues on statistically based evaluation of Austrian foreign and asylum law (858 d.a.) 5. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 1390/A(E) by Mr Rainer Hable, ladies and gentlemen, on the accommodation of aslywerbers in empty barracks (859d.b.) 6. Point Report by the Committee on Internal Affairs on Amendment 987/A(E) by Mr Rouven Ertlschweiger, MSc, colleagues on the introduction of temporary border controls and extension of the existing regulatory system (860, e.g.) 7. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 1350/A(E) by Mr Christoph Hagen, colleagues, on ‘48 hours of asylum procedure according to Swiss model’ (861d.b.) 8. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 1378/A(E) by Mr Christoph Hagen, colleagues, on the introduction of an asylum border for Austria (862d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e13016	We now come to points 3 to 8 of the agenda, on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Magnificent came to speak. Darmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e13044	Mr President. Values of non-present members of the Federal Government! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen at the gallery and at home! Let me begin with the following agenda items by making a brief but unfortunately also very frightening analysis of the current situation in the asylum sector, says problems of international migration. Border controls are not border controls, border fences must not be border fences, refugees are not refugees, the communities have become commanders and the government is anything but a government, ladies and gentlemen. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Gerhard Schmid.]] In fact, this is a summary in a few lines, in a few words, which describes very well what responsibility lies here in Austria in the field of tourism and asylum towards the Austrian population. This is a lack of responsibility, in particular by the fact that there is still a long wait for a European Union's non-existent solution competence for years to come. I would like to sum up: If you rely on the EU, you are left alone, Minister of State Mikl- Leitner. Thank you for taking part in this discussion. Mrs Bundesminister, you already have to see one thing, and I believe that this is also the claim of the Austrian population, namely, that it is not a question of speaking of problems and not of those people in Austria who have perceptible problems with this Austrian federal government, who are comprehensiblely concerned and who are experiencing fears of the future, with the hatred of defaming with a alleged hatred. This is not an access, ladies and gentlemen, especially from SPÖ and ÖVP, but also from the Greens, because the Austrian people deserved it very well that all the political leaders here in the country, but in particular the government groups SPÖ and ÖVP are responsible for their concerns, that they themselves recognize the problems correctly, that they are analysing them and that they are then taking the measures needed to ensure security in Austria, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] As I have referred to the European Union, which seems to be trying in Austria to overcome all passive and active miscarriage: I would point out that Austria, like the European Union and, in particular, Germany, continues to stand up to an invitation policy towards the half-world, that national and international law is still being broken, that the external borders of the European Union are still unprotected, but that internal borders are not being protected, that not only the tow mafia is still being fought, but even the tow work is being carried out, the EU is doing this in the Mediterranean, the Republic of Austria is doing this in Austria, and that the risk of terrorism is still not recognized and beautifully spoken. In fact, we have a problem in the state of Austria – a problem which is, however, homemade, self-taught and, in particular, through a responsible political leadership in the interior, but also generally through a leadership of a federal government by a German chancellor Faymann would be able to get away with some responsible action; I say, in a way. But there is nothing that will leave the population to conclude that there will be an improvement in the situation as long as this government is in office and dignity. I am very surprised to see Mrs Bundesminister, whom you now have to criticise for the entire federal government here, because you have not only a function of ensuring the security of the Republic of Austria and, of course, of the Austrian population. No, no, no, They are all, in the Federal Government, but also in the political groups of SPÖ and ÖVP, just like any other citizen in this country, people with family – in whatever way you live in a family association, whether you have children or not. In your relationship environment, in your circle of friends, you have responsibility. I assume that just as much concern will be given to you, ladies and gentlemen, to finally act, to stop, to talk for months and years, to discuss with each other for weeks, to exchange what a fence may call whether it is a border control measure or a technical measure. Today, in turn, there has been a summit on fence that has failed again. The population must rightly ask itself: What's going on here? What are those who hold on to the power and do not release the way so that we can finally work in the interests of the population in that country, ladies and gentlemen? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I believe that this is once again a requirement which will certainly be addressed to you every day by the citizens of our country. But you should act after that. Mrs Bundesminister, there are many possibilities to become active. They themselves know well enough that it would be a good idea to renegotiate the Geneva Convention on Refugees in its present version. The historical intention along with all the adaptations is not suitable to counter modern international migration. Mrs Innenminister, you are finally considering in Austria giving benefits to those persons who are present on the ground in order to seek protection, because it was due to the fact that there is much less motivation for those economic migrants who, for a reason alone, are pushing to Austria and also to Germany, namely to make themselves a better and better life in a rich Member State of the European Union. It's not about looking for protection. That's about improving. Ms. Federal Minister, if we take with us yesterday’s statements by the head of the Federal Office for Foreign Affairs and Asylum Wolfgang Divinger on the “Report” mission, which said that the expected asylum applications had landed at 95 000 for 2015, but the Republic of Austria only managed to do a good 35 000 in 2015, then as political leaders, we must be so far as to acknowledge that we have limited resources, limited opportunities and can also act within these possibilities. If we have nearly 100,000 applications, but only 35 000, it is long overdue – and I wonder why this step is not being taken – to introduce, in all responsibility for Austria, a maximum number of asylum procedures in Austria. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Hagen.]] This step is long overdue, just as it would solve the painful problem of quotas to be fulfilled by the federal states and the municipalities. These are now caught in a situation, as I said at the outset, only to be recipients of command, not to have any influence on the asylum and foreign policy of the Federal Government and to be constantly lagging behind the quota needs, because even if one has already met 99.99 percent of the quota and there are again 15 000 new people coming overnight to Austria, which is to be distributed, one slides back from one day to the other to 90, 95 percent quota fulfillment and is directed by you, Mrs Federal Minister, to help the asylum seekers. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is not fair, because you – above all you, Mrs Federal Minister, and your colleagues in government! – in the past, especially in recent years, it has failed to bring out those people who have no right to stay here in Austria. And these people continue to use our resources and prove the accommodations that would be available to all those who actually need protection and also need this protection. In this sense, Mrs Bundesminister: Please accept this criticism for the Federal Government, which has been expressed in all clarity on our part! The Austrian population has deserved to have a federal government responsible for this international migration not only sitting here, but also working – and not a federal government in which one constantly judges one another, who would be responsible for what if only he would do so. Do it! The words are spoken enough.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e13168	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Hammer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e13189	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! As is already the case today in the current hour of Europe, the main topic of the refugee, migration flows and asylum is also being debated – in a number of opposition applications. The debate in the current hour of Europe and also numerous debates over the last weeks and months have shown that this topic is extremely complex and complex and that the political and public debate – Mr Darmann has just presented it again – is moving between overly welcoming culture on the one hand and populist moods on the other. At any rate, it is that way – and that is what we all feel when we are outside the people – that this issue is a massive issue for all citizens and that fears are there. And it is also true that politics – and this is expected of us – is intensively concerned with this issue. The population needs the signal – and this is what the Minister of the Interior and also the Federal Government – to try to solve this problem in pan-European terms, to limit the currents on a large scale at European level, to steer our borders on orderly lines, and above all to solve the question of accommodation and integration. It has always been the Minister of the Interior who pointed out developments at an early stage – this has been seen today in the current hour of Europe and in the debate on the security report of all parties – and she has also proposed and put forward appropriate measures, Mr Darmann, and she is now constantly on the rise in the current situation of development to make proposals and to move forward with these. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Darmann.]] They have also addressed today's summit, where it was about finding a solution through orderly steering at the border in the field. Thank you so much for that! I would also like to thank you for the measures that have been taken and for the efforts to make always new proposals that are suitable for solving these problems. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The ostrich of applications introduced by the opposition again shows this mood, which moves between welcome culture and populism, and is largely not suitable to solve this multi-layered problem. On some proposals it must be said that they have already been implemented, for example the proposal to make shortened procedures for nationals of safe third countries. This project has already been implemented. The request by Mr Ertlschweiger, who is now a colleague of mine, to introduce temporary border controls, has also been implemented. Border controls have been and will be carried out, both in the Burgenland and now in the field of action, within the framework of international possibilities. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: What exactly is being done?]] Of course, one is still in the process of technical improvement, but within the scope of the possibilities, this will be done and has also been implemented accordingly. While the demand for a ceiling for refugees is in principle understandable, it is only useful in the pan-European context, with a corresponding distribution rate for each EU country. [[New call of the abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] Finally, I would like to say to my group: We are trying – and we will continue to represent this line – to resolve the issue of asylum with propriety and home sense. All other political groups are well advised to be part of the solution here instead of acting populistly, and to give massive support to the Minister of the Interior in her heart, because she is on the right track. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e13244	Mrs Mag. Korun. - Please. [[Call: She's not there.]] - She's not here right now. [[Abg. Hagen: She is “fleet”, the wife of Korun!]] I would ask Mr Heinzl, as it were, to step forward to the speaker's desk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e13286	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The largest wave of refugees that Europe has experienced since the end of World War II presents major challenges to both politics and civil society. That can and must not be denied. But cheaper populism at the expense of people who have already lost everything is also, as I mean, not in place. I therefore reject the three requests made by the Stronach team – those are Agenda Points 6 to 8. [[Abg. Hagen: This is not a cheap populism!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have also experienced an incredibly great commitment from civil society in the last few days and weeks, and that makes me happy. The often spontaneous self-organisation of helpers through media such as Facebook or Twitter has even amazed many experienced crisis managers. From “Train of Hope” at the main station in Vienna to smaller initiatives on the urban and village level, great things have developed: Thousands of people throughout the country have not only opened their hearts but also opened their homes and received refugees at home, whether for just one night or for longer. In my hometown of St. Pölten, too, a private initiative has been set up, which is called “Guarantee on Tomorrow”, which gives people a private sleeping place on their way through the evening. Almost every night, ladies and gentlemen, families with children must also be accommodated there. That is why I think we need even more people, the fears there are, not to turn into indifference, but into humanity. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! These volunteers are particularly grateful to me and also to my very special respect. But we must not be the slaves of our fear and go about building an ineffective fence. And closing your eyes to reality is not a solution either. It's clear: No fence and no army in the world are powerful enough to permanently block hundreds of thousands of people away from a peaceful and secure future. Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, Mr Strache, perhaps we are of the opinion that: As long as the West deserves good supplies of arms to the war countries, war, escape and suffering will be sad reality. [[Abg. Strache: Austria certainly does not deliver!]] Ladies and gentlemen, integration is announced! Successful integration is hard work for all sides, but the profit that society and everyone can draw from it is worth it, I think. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e13345	Mr Scherak. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e13366	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! We know that we still have a massive problem in Austria, especially in Traiskirchen. In the last few days, more than a hundred refugees have been homeless in front of the first reception site, and private helpers have again taken care of getting the appropriate sleeping places. Clearly, it still does not work without the willingness of civil society to help. The problem is that civil society, which has done great things in the last few weeks and months, will also eventually get out of the air. In other words, we still have a problem when it comes to appropriate accommodation for those seeking protection who come to Austria. There are many reasons for this. Mrs Bundesminister, a reason has been given to you by Mr Klubobmann Schieder in a press conference when he said that the right of access was not there to see, and that must also be applied accordingly. So far, 2 200 places have been created. That's to be recognized. The fact is: Still, it's too little. We need to get more places. But what – vice versa – your party friends can do very consistently and where they are consistently pervading is to try to turn off private initiatives. We've heard it today: The refugee quarter, which Sepp Schellhorn made for 36 refugees, will be closed until Christmas, i.e. in the Advent season, and these 36 refugees will be put on the street. I have a hard time doing this when a mayor from your party – and your party here always appeals to the Christian values and the Christian social doctrine – that pre-Christmas, in the Advent era. Obviously, he did not understand the history of Christmas and did not understand what it meant in connection with the search for the inn. If I hear from you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP – quite honestly – that you feel committed to Christian social doctrine and that this is your basis of value, then I will soon find nothing more than to put me out here and actually correct it in the future, because if there are people who want to put 36 refugees on the street, then I cannot see that differently. There are also positive examples, I give you right, but this mayor, who wants to put 36 people on the street, comes from the ÖVP, and he said on the question of what to do with these 36 refugees: That's not my problem, and he was also bragging about him turning off the project. That's what he literally said. That's where I have to say: This is so far from the Christian image and from the Christian social doctrine that it is no longer annoyed at all! We must tackle this problem, and that is why we have tabled these proposals. I am now surprised that neither Mr Heinzl nor Mr Hammer have explained why they have rejected NEOS's requests both in committee and today. But maybe the reason is still coming. These are small measures which we propose here, but which are all the more important than we can actually do something here. On the one hand, we have invited the Federal Minister to negotiate even more intensively with Federal Minister Klug as regards the barracks. There are still barracks that are empty, which you should adapt accordingly. And I think it is irresponsible when now, where winter comes, although there are empty barracks, people have to stay outdoors and spend the night in the cold. What we have also proposed to address the situation accordingly is that we will already allow private housing providers to take up refugees in the admission procedure. An essential reason for all these problems – and we heard this again yesterday in the “Report” – is that Austrian asylum and foreign law is highly complicated. What we have proposed is that we finally make an evaluation and look at it on the basis of this statistical evaluation, where something could really be changed, because the fact is that asylum law has been constantly updated over the last few years and is now hardly transparent. There are many human rights lawyers who tell us that this is the very reason why the procedures take so long. I do not know a hundred percent, I have a presumption, but it is clear that we should simply evaluate asylum law once, and then we could see if there really is a need for reform. A short time to request from the Stronach team. One thing I am anxious about is what Mr Ertlschweiger will say, but it is said that the proposal contained in it has already been implemented and that is why nothing will happen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hagen.]] Secondly, Mr Hagen, it would be really important to me that this is also true of you: Yes, it is true, there will be the situation in which, in fact, we will have a problem to provide for all the people who come to Austria and are looking for protection here. But there can be no limit to human rights, and the right to apply for asylum is a human right! [[Abg. Kogler: Right!]] There can be no ceiling for this. And it would really be very right for me to say that this is also true of you sometime. Then you don't have to have this discussion here every time.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e13415	For a statement, Mrs. Federal Minister Mag. Mikl's head of speech reported. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e13436	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Estimated visitors! Some 445,000 people have come to our country since the beginning of September or have come through it. And on the shoulders of the Republic of Austria there are two very big challenges in this context: On the one hand Austria is transitland, and on the other hand Austria is also destination country. The figures clearly show that this is the case: In October alone, more than 10 000 refugees have received (Parliament adopted the legislative To this day more than 70 000 people have sought asylum in Austria this year. And all of this presents us with huge challenges – not only politics, but also the police, the federal army, the aid organizations, and the entire civilian population. I should like to thank all those who have worked together, as they have come together. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Especially in such difficult situations, in such challenging situations, one can demand the systems – but certainly not the population and our systems over them! In many areas, we have reached the limit. I'm thinking about the quarters. Over the last few months alone, more than 30 000 care places have been created by the countries and the municipalities. And the quarter search continues. Instead, we are now encountering our borders – not only in the district area, but also in many other areas – and I believe that the German Federal President Gauck formulated this very well by saying: “Our hearts are far, but our possibilities are at last.” That is why it is so important that we return to the core of asylum law so that we have, above all, for those who are in need of protection. It is therefore very important to put in place a wide range of measures to return to the core of asylum law. We in Austria have always said that we hold on to Dublin. Now Germany has also decided to return to Dublin – a turning point in the politics of Germany, where one can only respect the German Federal Government, because that was certainly a difficult decision. Another measure that we have launched is “Asyl on time. ” And we are intensifying the family estate, especially for those entitled to subsidiary protection, which is particularly affected by Afghan asylum seekers. [[Mr Scherak and Mr Korun.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, especially in the last few weeks, we all feel that there is a crack through the population, a crack through society. And I really think it's very dangerous to put those who articulate their concerns that talk about their concerns in the corner of racists. I say quite openly and honestly to you: I understand everyone who's worried about the future. I also understand everyone who is thinking about how to proceed. We all know: It can't go on like this! And we should take these concerns seriously. We all know that we cannot deal with the problem either at the Austrian border or at the German border alone, but above all we need European measures, such as investment in the regions of origin, in order to create prospects, and investment in refugee camps, so that people can stay close to their home region. In addition, the following considerations should be considered: How do we create legal ways to Europe? How can we secure the European external border? Until all these measures are implemented, in particular, until the European external border is safeguarded, we are responsible for the establishment of national measures – national measures such as temporary border controls. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] But above all, we have to consider concepts: How can we continue to guarantee the maintenance of public order and security at our border crossings, how do we create a controlled entry into our Republic? I think it is precisely the achievement of these two objectives that people in Austria expect from us. That is why it is necessary to have very clear concepts, which are not about decommissioning, but about ensuring the controlled entry as well. That is why I am glad that at today's meeting of the two coalition parties, we agreed that, in terms of security management, we still have one step to take when it comes to how we can prevent the crossing of the border from bypassing the entrance control. I am firmly convinced that by the end of this week we will also take this step together and that we will all do what is ultimately necessary. This is not a political decision, it is a decision of content. This is a decision on the substance of the matter, which the people also expect from us, namely to secure our borders in order to ensure a controlled entry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e13539	The next item is the speech by Mr Obernoster. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e13561	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and at home in front of the televisions! I believe that what the Federal Minister has just said is not an addition to content. I'm in a valley that's very little populated. In my village, where I live, about 300 people live, and I tell you quite honestly: I don't know if we've seen a refugee sometime. When I'm home, the older people come to me and say, Gabriel, we're scared! When are you going to Vienna again? Please, do something! [[Abg. Lichtenecker: Then we have to go to the Lesachtal!]] [[Call the ÖVP: You just have to go to the Leut’!]] – I would simply like to say, just as the Federal Minister said: It is about giving people security, making clear statements so that the topic of asylum – which is actually new in the generation – can be addressed. On the other side Page also does not need to stand at the door to Christmas: The ÖVP stands for helping where to help. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On the other hand, we also know that this willingness to help is exploited by many for whom it is not actually intended. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] There one will have to show the necessary hardness so that one can get under control and continue to help those who really need it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Today, Mr Darmann spoke of the Federal Minister's lack of responsibility. I say quite honestly that this hurts me personally for the Minister. Our Mrs. Federal Minister has done something with your team in this situation. It has already put a lot of proposals on the table, some of which have not been supported by the coalition partner. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: But we may carry it!]] She has put solutions on the table – we know that –: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig]] Asylum on time, difficulties in family moveover, benefits in kind instead of benefits. We know that minimum security has been introduced at a time when we have had a high level of economic activity and full employment, and that this has nothing to do with today's situation in which we are now. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Hochkonjunktur 2008!]] Even then in the refugee flows – if they get asylum and come to these achievements – we haven't done anything at all, and that's why these things can be clearly corrected. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Königsberger-Ludwig and Mr Darmann.]] It is not the case that Austria has the second highest number of asylum applications in the European Union after Sweden and - per capita - also has the second highest number of asylum seekers. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Or not!]] We will also have to have the courage to adapt our social benefits to the European average. We don't have to be the worst, but we can't be the best either. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: What are you doing?]] And that this is not going from today to tomorrow, I think, is clear, but it is very well in our sense of responsibility that we also have to deal with these conditions. Mrs Bundesminister, I say quite honestly, you can hear this also outside in the small village of Maria Luggau, where I am at home: The Federal Minister is fighting and fighting, and we sometimes have the feeling that she would be abandoned by the other political groups. I say what people say outside, and, as I said, I still wish you a lot of strength to endure. [[President Bures takes over the presidency again.]] One thing is also quite clear: In every crisis, however it may be, just as a family has to stand together and then make it again, in this case a government has to stand together, including all opposition parties, because it is not about politics, it is about our Austria and about the security of Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] In conclusion, points 3 to 8, whether these are border controls, whether this is the quota for asylum seekers: We know that we discussed this in committee. Many of these points also have a 100% right, some are already implemented or are in the straight line for implementation. My time is now too short to go through these eight points. There was the necessary time for discussion in the Committee, and you know the arguments why one does not go along on certain points, but many of these points are already part of the programme implemented by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e13719	Next item is the report by Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e13740	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! No, it has not been discussed so much in the Committee, Mr Obernosterer, that the points are coherent. I'd like to start with TOP 6. I have been in doubt looking for Mr Rouven Ertlschweiger on the list of speakers because he is the applicant at TOP 6. He is a well known team of Stronach-Economic Refugee to the ÖVP, the tug is sitting there, but... [[towards ÖVP looking]] [[Rejoicing and congratulation with the Stronach team.]] I have to say this quite clearly: I expect Ertlschweiger to agree to his request. Mr Hammer, who spoke here some time ago and wanted to make it clear to us that the temporary border controls are already taking place, I must say: Mr Hammer, nothing will happen at all. We know – we discussed it this morning –: The police, the military are overrun at the borders. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] There is zero control, no one knows the identity, no one is controlled. So it's not temporary border controls, it's a swing. – This is the wrong way, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Abg. Two have been dragged through!]] Let me just say something about this swing: I had already done this in the morning, but not completely finished because I missed the time. I'd like to get this back to you now. Germany really makes temporary border controls. That is, Germany controls refugees at borders, records their data – and Austria does not. I asked the committee: What happens when Germany sends back these refugees from Austria? – They then explained to me: Yes, they will be sent back to the respective countries where they arrived! – Only if you don’t control it, how do you want to know if the refugee comes from Italy, whether it comes from Hungary, whether it comes from Slovenia or not? So you won't send it back, and that's why the numbers have been revised up because they're all staying here, ladies and gentlemen. I am concerned when I read in the “Kronen Zeitung” that every tenth refugee will be punished. [[Abg. Peter Worm: Every fourth!]] – That’s in Germany, I’m talking about Germany now. [[Abg. Peter Worm: In Austria every fourth!]] – And if you go to the bottom of the whole thing, we read in this article: “Among the perpetrators in Germany, however, there are no Syrians, Iraqis or Afghans (...), ‘no Balkans, Caucasus, North, West and Central Africa’.” These men have usually already encountered crimes in their home countries. These are not real refugees, these are refugees before the criminal justice, ladies and gentlemen, who have left you uncontrolled in our Austria and which we get back and which we no longer get rid of when the countries no longer take it back. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwentner.]] We know that because we see the deportation payments. That is the fact, and that is why we really need these temporary border controls and real controls, in which these people are also controlled: as they are called, where they are coming from, and from which state they are, and then we can see which people really are refugees. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] There is a statistics from the Ministry of the Interior that only about 40 percent are Syrians, and that is the point, ladies and gentlemen. The rest comes from somewhere, from many countries where there is no war, from which you only want to go to Austria or Germany or Sweden for economic reasons or what I know where to go. That is why this request is justified, and I am already eager to see how Mr Ertlschweiger will then vote. Let us go to the next request, this “48 hours of asylum procedure according to the Swiss model”: When it comes to Switzerland, and in Switzerland a lot of things work, much, very, very much better than in Austria, then we just have to look at it there. That means there is a first check, but there we are again at the point: First of all, we need to determine the origin of people, see where they come from, whether they really have an asylum ground. I need to control them first, and I can't just wink them. That's exactly what it's all about, Minister. So this request also has its right. I agree with you – and you yourself said it in committee: They're trying to get a little forward here. You yourself have said that you are uplifting the police because crime is likely to increase because of the strong immigration. That is what you have said in the Committee literally said, and that is what I am giving you absolutely right. You have the fullest support from the Stronach team, I can assure you. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: That's something too!]] Ladies and gentlemen, then to TOP 8: This is the request concerning the “Introduction of an Asylum Upper Limit for Austria” of the Stronach team. This request also has its very clear right and should be approved today, because if you look at it now: First of all, there have been 68 000 asylum seekers or asylum applications in Austria, then it was 86 000 and now we are 95 000. Where does that stop? [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: 120 00? 130,000?]] It cannot be that three countries in Europe are swallowing the main burden and one cannot even be able in the EU – 130 people have been distributed so far – to actually enforce these quotas of 160 000, which one has decided to enforce. What are you supposed to believe in? What does the Austrian citizen, the Austrian taxpayer, want? What should he rely on if not on the state? It's on its own? Do you want us to be completely uplifted? – After all, you only have to ask in the arms stores, the citizens are slow about patience, people are going here and arming themselves. People are scared. Get out of here. Talk to the tribal tables, talk to the people in the village places, you'll find out! I can only ask you, Mrs. Federal Minister: Do you really want to take the right measures and see that your political groups in the government really agree with those requests that have their right to vote? Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e13887	Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e13923	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Hagen! [[Calls and calls between MEPs Hagen, Steinbichler, Wöginger and Auer.]] Mr. Hagen, you are now in your speech...
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e13948	Ladies and gentlemen! Intervening calls are a good parliamentary practice, but you should still have the opportunity to hear the speech and that the calls – that is always a wish – are at the heart of being photographed. So I would ask you to listen to the speaker. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e13974	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr Hagen, you have now spoken a lot of fear in your speech, of the concerns that people have. Yes, of course we do. Of course, we are also at the common tables with people. We are also among the people who seek protection from us and are welcomed to various welcome cafes, where you can learn German with them et cetera. The fears are there, I give you right, on both sides the fears are there. But Mr Hagen, the difference with your party and with my party is that we have come to take these fears, and you seem to have acted upon them in order to still stir up these fears. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] I think the responsibility of policy lies in the following: To take fears on both sides and to make a responsible policy also in dealing with refugee problems. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hagen.]] At least I see that, and I am convinced that it is a right and important way to continue in this direction. On the requests that are rejected by us today – Mr Scherak has addressed them very briefly –: They have demanded that asylum seekers may also be accommodated in private accommodation in the admission procedure. – We also reject this because we are currently in need of housing for many asylum-based people. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] You know this yourself: It is not easy to always find apartments within the four months. I think that might lead to a little more lack. Therefore, the authorisation procedures should be dealt with very quickly and then the asylum procedures in the accommodation should be pending. That is why we reject this request. We reject the accommodation in barracks for the reason that my knowledge is already filled with protection-seeking people. That is why we reject this request. On the evaluation of the Asylum Act, Mr Scherak: Yeah, we should really do that. Only: I think we should maybe choose a time that will also leave more time for it. Now we should try to implement the current asylum laws as best we can. That is why we reject this request at the moment. However, I would like to mention a few more thoughts on the undisputed major challenges in the field of refugee movements, in the area of protection-seeking people and in dealing with them. I'm convinced: We need to solve these challenges. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] For me, two moments are very important: that we solve these challenges on the basis of human rights, Mr. colleague, and on the basis of the rule of law. [[in the direction of the Abg. Peter Worm]] Yes, I also say that as a Social Democratic, because I am also convinced that it needs it. But from my point of view, Mr President, it also needs many levels which help to solve these challenges. [[Abg. Peter Worm: Exactly!]] We've heard it today. We need a global solution. I am really glad that this Syria conference took place. I am also glad that there will be aid for those refugee camps in the states around the crisis spots so that people do not get on the way. If you have nothing to eat, my colleague, if you have no chance, you have no hope of going back to your country, you will eventually get on your way. I think we are really required to pay out the aid, and I would also ask the liberals to always agree with these aid funds in the future. We need a European solution – which has been mentioned many times today –: I think we will need a follow-up solution for Dublin III. From my point of view, Dublin III has failed because countries have simply been left alone. You can't say: You are the Schengen border, you see what you do to people, but there is no support. That is why we need a follow-up solution for Dublin III, so that – the Minister has already mentioned it today – there is a safe return for people looking for protection, so that Europe-wide distribution of asylum-seeking people can actually succeed. I would like to remind you once again that an admission criterion for states into the European Union is the ratification of the European Convention on Human Rights. We should not forget that in the whole debate either. We should also give this opportunity to those states which are currently refusing to take up refugees once again and again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e14053	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Kumpitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e14074	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Just once again to illustrate: In 2013, 17 000 asylum applications were submitted in Austria. In the previous year, it was 28 000, and as we heard today, according to the latest forecasts, we are still expecting 95 000 applications this year – by the end of the year. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: At least!]] – At least in a country of 8.4 million people! Nearly every day thousands of people in the field push across the border with the aim of reaching Germany or to Sweden or other Nordic countries. What if Germany closes the borders? – This enormous increase in asylum applications leads to a medical and unreasonable burden on the police, the competent authorities, and also on the intervention agencies – not to mention the uncertainty of the population, which, as such, no longer knows how to deal with the situation in the affected areas. As well as those of you, Mrs. Federal Minister, 200 police officers did not really and did not help to increase the number of BFA officials, and if so, only in the medium term. The government is therefore urgently called upon to finally take appropriate measures to prevent uncontrolled immigration into our federal territory and to ensure the rapid settlement of asylum procedures. One possibility would be to adapt the Swiss system, the so-called 48-hour asyl procedure, as requested by Mr Hagen. Switzerland is able to work quickly and effectively on asylum applications from refugees without being unjust or breaching rule of law. Barbara Büschi – this is the deputy director of the Swiss State Secretariat for Migration – even claims that faster is even better. The first experiences have been gained by the Eids in a test plant at a new centre for asylum procedures in Zurich. It is true that refugees who have virtually no chance of obtaining a right of residence because they either come from safe countries of origin or have been shown from another point of view that they cannot obtain asylum are being questioned in one day, and on a negative outcome, the next day of the notification, which, as it were, calls them back on leave. I am thinking specifically of the many cases in Austria, which could be dealt with in such a way, namely cases where it has already been established that the asylum seeker has, for example, arrived with false paper, that he makes manifestly false information which does not correspond to local circumstances, because by the enormous refugee ranks it is true that an asylum seekers often spend months – even for up to a year! – Wait until he gets a trial at all. [[Abg. Darmann: Insanity!]] - Yeah, it's faster not to deal with that. It would therefore be an opportunity if we were to use this option in Austria as well. One thing does not make sense: to keep people waiting for a long time, to awaken in them hopes, but at the end of the day they cannot be fulfilled. You, Mrs Bundesminister, have the power to implement these measures if you just want to, and do not assume from the house, that you cannot move anyone at all, and that everyone remains here anyway, even if they have entered the country illegally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e14124	The next item is the speech by Mr Prince. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e14145	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The issues of security and asylum have been very long and intensive for us today. In terms of content, I can do with what my previous speakers Michael Hammer and Gabriel Obernosterer said. If I allow the speeches of today's security as well as asylum and refugees to happen revue, I think there are a lot of wise people in this House. The only question is whether these wise people also do something at home in their region, in their own home community, so that they manage the situation positively. [[Complementary of the Abg. Yılmaz]] I beg you: Look in the mirror, think and act at home! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A thought about Mr Darmann, who complained that the FPÖ hetze was being blamed [[Abg. Darmann: Not the FPÖ and me! The people in Austria are accused of hetze!]] I'm not saying that in FPÖ everyone is horrifying, but I think it's important that you sometimes think about who says something. It makes a difference – if I may say so directly – whether this says the little Maxi in backseat or parliamentarians, the Federal Council, the European Parliament or a country day, whether this is the Commissioner Winter, where one has consistently acted – the personal consequence is not, unfortunately, but that is a question of character – or who else. And it is really that way – Mr Werner Amon has said that very clearly – as far as Mr Höbart is concerned, one really has to be careful and perhaps think about how to deal with it in the future in the FPÖ. Final thought: It is positive if responsibility is taken over, but I wish I had the FPÖ if you have the opportunity to assume responsibility, to prove that you really want to do something better in the future. – When I think about Upper Austria and about the issue of integration, how we actually accommodate the asylum seekers who are refugees, I have to say: Unfortunately, it was not ready for this at FPÖ in Upper Austria. [[Abg. Darmann: You just voted against your own request today!]] That's exactly what I wanted: that one also shows: We'll do better! So I would like to ask you to show a little more courage and take responsibility in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e14230	Next is Mrs Mag. Korun to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e14251	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I'm sorry about my two-minute delay in the past. I was still down in the club – obviously a little too long. Now on our topics. So that we can properly put the current events into history – because the figures were mentioned earlier –: In 1956/57 Austria took up 180 000 Hungarian refugees, in 1986 from Czechoslovakia at that time 162,000 people, in the 1990s there were just over 90 000 people, mainly from Bosnia, who came because of the Yugoslavia crisis. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: 1968, not 1986!]] These figures to be expected this year – 80 000, yesterday was thought to be up to 95 000 – are figures that this country has already managed several times, where people who have fled war and expulsion are admitted and well cared for in Austria. That is to say, it is always a question of political will, and yes, also of management, and how to deal with creating enough quarters, creating enough German courses, so that understanding works as quickly as possible, and starting with integration measures. Mr. Obernosterer, who is now unfortunately... Oh, you're back! Thank you, I'm glad. [[Abg. Auer: I wasn't there, he was always there!]] [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] – The colleague wasn't always in the hall. I've believed he's not here yet, but you're here. - Thank you, we'd have done that now. Mr Obernosterer, you have raised an interesting point. You said – I quote you –: The village I come from probably didn't see a single refugee. – And just after that, you added: And the old people in my village are scared. Now I already know that you're mostly afraid of things or people or phenomena that you don't know at all, because you haven't come into contact with these phenomena, with these people, with this thing at all. Our task as politicians and politicians is not to work with fear and to increase this fear, but to reduce fears between people, even between groups of people, and to ensure understanding and good neighborhood. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: No, the fear of...!]] That is how I understand my role as elected representative of this House. Always with the fear of coming as an argument that you don't want to do this and that because he or she is afraid, that's a protection of allegations. Yes, there are people who are afraid, yes, there are people who are standing at the stations who welcomed the incoming refugee families and provided them with food and warm clothing. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Many!]] I was myself at the Westbahnhof, at the main station, also met older ladies and rulers who have brought by money donations as well as the old clothes of their grandchildren. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Oberlaa!]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: The ones that burn them then!]] [[The speaker makes a break and looks towards the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: The truth sometimes hurts!]] [[Abg. Darmann: Already in the record!]] Hetze's always much easier. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Why “Hetze”?]] [[Abg. Darmann: The truth hurts! What kind of bitch?]] Putting people against each other is always much easier. To do concrete work on the ground, to provide friendly children, is much more difficult, dear Mrs Social Spokesman of your group. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[New call of the abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] If people are concerned, they can be made aware of these concerns by familiarizing them with their new neighbors. I know very many of the elderly Austrians, who are now helping Syrian refugee families, for example, to help children, women and men learn German, and these people are there for thousands of people in our country. Fear is usually a bad advice. We politicians should strive for hope, cooperation and good neighborhood and not take the fearmakers and fearmakers, even in these ranks, as humanity and closeness and love are stronger than hatred and fear. [[towards FPÖ]] In this sense: Together we can make it if we want it! And a warm thank you to all those who mostly help unpaid refugees welcome them and try to jump in where the state, unfortunately, fails to do so today. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e14434	The next speaker is Mr Schabhüttl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e14455	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Values Watchers on the gallery and on TV screens! I would like to take advantage of this opportunity at the beginning of my first speech here in the Hohe Haus and to greet all Burgenländerlanders and, of course, all of them from my home town of Inzenhof quite cordially from here today. The flow of refugees from the Middle East and parts of Africa has been very intense for months. Let's be honest: No one can say how long this situation lasts, no one knows how many refugees are still coming to Europe! There can only be a solution to this problem, and that can only be a European solution. One has also shown this difficult situation in recent weeks and months: We can rely on different groups in our country. I am thinking of my colleagues from the police, who have acted very professionally and with great use in a very difficult environment and who have gone on duty to the limit of performance. The German army, the rescue organizations and the many voluntary helpers are also doing great things. Thank you very much. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] One thing has been noticed in many discussions and discussions in recent weeks: Many of the population are insecure; some of them are really scared. This uncertainty, these fears must be taken very seriously. But that does not mean that we are simply throwing all the principles overboard. My conclusion from this is: We must help the refugees of war, but at the same time we must clearly tell the economic refugees that they have no chance of a positive outcome of the asylum process. In addition, it is essential and important for me to create return possibilities in the event of a negative asylum notice. We owe it to the people, in very difficult situations, to make policy with responsibility, with far-sighted visions and with clear visions. On the other hand, I can only warn against the fact that there are certain forces that want to throw the country into fear and uncertainty and to insure the population. This is what they want to use in order to produce both political small and medium-sized enterprises. One should be honest with the people and not agree with them something that cannot be implemented. Especially in this present situation, I demand a close of all parties in our country. A policy of substance and a common European approach is the command of the hour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e14498	The next item is Mr Schellhorn's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e14519	Madam President. Estimated Minister! I think you'll all be able to think about what I'm going to talk about now. And I also say: I'm showing understanding for you for the first time, Mrs. Minister. How helpless this government is is, in fact, exemplary, and how to go in the hostage of a mayor. That's one. The other thing – and where it goes – is that we have a system of federalist homelessness. That's what we've done in the meantime. There are no mayors, no heads of state, no councillors. They prevent and boycott through micro-ceramies, by cowardice a decent accommodation of asylum seekers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] And if you please, Mr. Partyobmann Lopatka – Klubobmann! [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Klubobmann!]] Sorry, Klubobmann – play in a different causa than Moralapostel Where is your morality with your mayor in Bad Gastein? [[Abg. Lopatka: What do you mean by Moralapostel?]] [[Abg. Rädler: Where is your morality at the...?]] Where is this morality in this causa? You really are a double morale, you know it. [[Call the ÖVP: Who?]] You know! All of you will be of this Christian-social party, I believe, thinking of myself: You will think of me when you sing this Advent song in the circle of your family: “Who’s knocking on?” [[Call the ÖVP:Hello?- Oh, my God!]] You'll think of me and you'll think about this shame that your mayor has fabricated with your head of state and with this councillor. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] There you will have to prove attitude and propriety. That's your morale! Mr. Rädler, you're welcome to blame me for making money. You know it's not. That's a wrong instrument. [[Abg. Wheeler: Why not?]] It is an interesting state of affairs which the head of state also proves when he says he can't, he's in the name of the mayor. It is really an interesting proponent, and this proponent is covered by a turning off of an integration project. – You have to be aware of this! You must be aware of this in your responsibility as a Christian-social party. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Homelessness is obvious. You know: Yesterday you had 400 accommodations too little. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Darmann.]] We need them, and we need to get started. At the same time, turn at 30. November a project that works best. You know that's your responsibility. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] I would like to come to another point: It is also embarrassing – and I would also like to say that – if Clubobfrau Glavischnig is just sending out an OTS with the headline: “Government should prefer to advance refugee accommodation instead of enhancing itself in “Zaun” question”. The Landesratin in Salzburg would have all power. She would have every power to further ensure this refugee accommodation – she would have all the power to do so, and you all know that together. All of you should be in your responsibility – also dear green members of the National Council – to support the National Councillor that she finally shows courage. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Call the SPÖ:Genau!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] And it's not up to you to tell me down here I'm doing business. – If the school does – when the school does! – then every mayor will say from tomorrow: You're not sending me asylum seekers! – The fact is, and I will... – The quota, yes, exactly: [[Call the ÖVP:Quote!]] The country of Salzburg does not meet the quota, it goes down by 8 per cent, and that is exactly the point. A community has no right to call on the quota. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Honey.]] - No! You know that! You know that's wrong. No, no, no! [[Abg. Honey:...1.5 percent!]] Is there an emergency now? You're calling on the quota, too? – You, the Greens, appeal to the quota at once?! - Great! Now we know! We are talking about human access and nothing else. We are concerned with the fact that these people are after the 1st century. The managing director of Caritas Salzburg says they will land in homelessness because they already have too few places. [[Abg. Honey: You know that's wrong!]] – You know that’s not wrong, you know that’s right, and I don’t understand your argument here. Please support your country councillor with regard to courage and not with regard to cowardice! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e14717	The next item is Mr Gerhard Schmid's speech. Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that I give you 3 minutes of voluntary speaking time limit, but I will interrupt the debate on these agenda items at the latest at 15.43 a.m. to call on the urgent question. Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e14748	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! My topic is the accommodation of asylum seekers in empty barracks as well as the introduction of a ceiling, and that primarily from Salzburg's point of view. Although the number of refugees entering Austria has fallen over the last few days, a further high number of refugees in Austria have to count on permanent foreigners and asylum seekers. Subject to the advanced season, the provision of winter-like quarters should be sought. On private property, this will not be sufficiently possible, but the Republic currently has empty barracks of the Federal Army, which would be adaptable in the short term with a low financial and physical burden. Despite the right of entry into service, the use of barracks should not be strictly rejected for safety reasons. The practice of free, but regulated transport of persons to the border regions in Upper Austria and Salzburg leads to a non-immaterial burden on both the auxiliary and the population. Furthermore, the completion and further takeover of refugees by the Federal Republic of Germany is only a matter of time. In this case, the Saalbrücke crossing is meant. An increasing number of asylum seekers in Austria are expected, but the Austrian population has a right to safety. In this context, it is appropriate to agree to the requests for the introduction of a ceiling on the reception of refugees for Austria and, furthermore, to equip empty barracks accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e14790	The next item is the speech by Mr Doppler. It's only a minute and a half. Ladies and gentlemen, do you want this short speaking time? – At 3:43 p.m. I will interrupt for the call of the urgent request. [[Abg. Doppler: (on the way to the speaker's desk) That's enough!]] [[Call to the ÖVP: It brings everything in!]] - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e14837	Madam President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Agenda items 3 to 8 deal with the topic of refugees. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that every Austrian is helpful, and that they have proved it many times, only – I have to say that unfortunately – does not understand what this Federal Government, but also the EU, is doing in Austria. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, I have already said this today: Asylum is a protection on time – and not unlimited. The massive flows of refugees endanger our future, our country and, above all, our young generation. We must have a big problem. Mrs Minister – I believe that this is important and apologise for me to address, but that is to say – you have simply put the rule of law out of power, and that is the biggest problem on the refugee issue. What is particularly disturbing to me is, of course, this right of access. This simply degenerates the countries, the municipalities and, above all, the population. I mean, that's a wrong direction. Ladies and gentlemen, the need to help is out of question. But help on the ground is important, because – we have heard this many times today – Austria can no longer carry this burden alone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e14877	I am now interrupting the negotiations on points 3 to 8 of the agenda so that the urgent question requested can be dealt with at 15.43 a.m. in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[15:43:22]] Request for urgent procedure of Deputies Ing. Robert Lugar, colleagues in the Federal Chancellor on "Where is Chancellor Faymann? – Austria in the most dangerous economic, labour market and refugee crisis since 1945” (6954/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e14910	Thus we arrive at urgent procedure for the written question 6954/J. As this has now been done to all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the author. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e15204	I give Mr Lugar as the first questioner to justify this question, in accordance with § 93 para. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e15225	Madam President. High house! I would like to warmly welcome the delegation from the Bergheim Police Department, which is here today! [[General condolences.]] We asked a very important question in this question: Where's Chancellor Faymann? Of course, it's not about him being here today. That's a beauty mistake. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: It's not that beautiful again!]] Unfortunately, this information did not go to us. It has not been possible to inform us in good time, as is usual in Parliament. Mr Faymann has not even managed to inform all the parties in the House that he is not present. But that's what it's supposed to be. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] We do not want to talk about his physical presence, but ask the question: Where is Chancellor Faymann when it comes to solving the problems in this country? It would be believed that the chancellor would be the respondent when it comes to the problems we face. There are some problems. There is not only the refugee question that needs to be solved, but there are many questions that are open in our country. Many have won the impression that it simply takes its time for the government to get under way. For example, we have been waiting practically for decades for a proper pension reform, for health reforms or for administrative reform. I can't hear the word anymore! How long have we been waiting for an administrative reform? With all the problems that remain – for example, the educational reform – we have had the impression in the past that it will sometime be so far that the government will finally take action. But it was not, and it was most visible in the case of refugee problems. It becomes most visible that the Federal Chancellor has already overtaken Vranitzky on the scale open to the top, which at that time perfected the sit-out and showering of the road as a legendary chancellor. In the meantime, however, Chancellor Faymann overtook him. Although he has not yet overtaken him as far as the term of office is concerned, he is behind Kreisky and Vranckky in third place as far as the inactivity is concerned, but he has already overtaken him. Therefore, the question must be asked: Why is our chancellor constantly looking away when it comes to doing something and looking into the problems? Let's take a look at the problems: At the moment, the statistics tell us that unemployment will continue to rise by 2018. We are talking about 600,000 unemployed people in Austria, with this number of refugees not yet included in the scope as it is mentioned. 600,000 people! What do we hear from the chancellor? – Only when there is an election campaign, does he make big posters with his counterfee: Work! If there's no campaign right now, we don't hear anything. That is exactly the problem of this federal government. We have a chancellor who's used to putting himself away, sitting down the problems, hoping it'll get better. But it won't be better. Especially now in refugee problems, one sees that it does not get any better by itself. The Federal Government is not even able – and the Chancellor is certainly responsible for this – to agree whether we get a border fence or – Originalton Faymann – a “door with side parts”. You have to let that break on your tongue! The chancellor doesn’t want a border fence, he wants a “door with side parts”. [[Abg. Darmann: You can only touch your head!]] What's that supposed to mean? – That’s really what you’re asking yourself! The former Minister of Finance Fekter is already shaking his head, but rightly so! [[The speaker looks towards the Abg. Fekter.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I'm not a big friend of the fence, but we're going to have to do something about security. If we all really want to register at the border, we will have to do something. I'm not a big friend of a border fence, because I don't think it makes sense because it can always be handled. It must be imagined, however, that there will be one – and that is the chancellor of our Republic! – and says: No, we want a “door with side parts”. If that's not too stupid for him, then you really ask yourself: Where did we get here? [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Is it really such statements that we expect from a chancellor in such a delicate question? Today we have heard nothing, even though it was announced for today. Did we hear anything? Is there a border fence? Is there no border fence? [[Abg. Darmann: Canceled without results!]] The Germans have now said they want to send back. Now what I have been saying for weeks now is that the day the Germans say: Yeah, we'll send back, we'll stick to the Dublin rules. That's what I said weeks ago! Where's Plan B? What did the chancellor say? - We don't need a plan B. Now he said he didn't worry at all. What are you worried about, Chancellor? What is it that disturbs you? If the Germans now proceed to send us back all those who have come across their borders, then this is possible because the Germans know where they came from, namely from Austria. It is easy for the Germans to send us people back again. Only we have no idea where they came from. Or do you know if they came from Hungary, from Italy, from Slovenia? Where did they come from? - We don't know. That is why we cannot call on Dublin because we have not registered it. This, of course, does not concern Mr Chancellor. The chancellor is at all a very relaxed chancellor, except when it comes to the Greeks; there he becomes hyperactive. Skill You remember how hyperactive he was when it came to the Greeks? There have been a lot of trips and meetings. There he was full when he can help his socialist friend. [[Call the FPÖ:Communist!]] - Or his communist friend, even worse. There he was hyperactive. However, when it comes to solving the problems in Austria, absolute refusal of work is suddenly recommended. This is the problem we should address. We should urge the chancellors together as national councillors to finally get in the way, because we have problems in this country. [[Call to the FPÖ: The Federal President is silent about this too!]] In Parliament with the current majority relations, the Red and Black MEPs only waver through or not all that comes from the government, or support 100 percent of the inactivity. As long as Parliament itself does not once become courageous and even leads something into the way, we must rely on having a government that does something. There's nothing going on. Let's take a look at the points in detail! I finally have time to do all of this today. For example, unemployment: It is always said by the Social Democrats: We are so opposed to unemployment anyway. - We're just not doing anything about it. But the solutions would be on the table. What can be done against unemployment? Take a look at the McKinsey study! She says: We could only, if we finally get the problem in the hands of the founders that they don't get money from the bank, up to 2025, promoting €31 billion in additional investment. This would also create additional jobs. I mean, this can even be understood by a socialist. Why don't you do it? - Because you don't want to take the business away from the banks. On the one hand, we say: There are founders who don't get money from the bank. On the other hand, we prevent the founders from having access to venture capital or from participating in small emerging companies. You don't want to. You don't want to do that because it's a way to secure the bank's business. Another example is the trade system: In the industrial order, we are dealing with which things are regulated. There is trade on the one hand and so-called free trade on the other. The production of women's underwear is a bonded industry, which requires a special skill. On the other side The production of baby food is a free trade. We find such things in this trade order. Another example: Kissing at the workplace automatically leads to dismissal. That's still in right order. There's still that. No human is thinking about whether it is still modern. We should finally get in the way and unravel the trade order so that we can also promote entrepreneurship in this country, because this creates jobs. I know, of course, that the Social Democrats prefer to create jobs at the Chamber of Workers, at the union or perhaps in Vienna in the administration. [[Call the SPÖ: This is stupid!]] I mean, even the colleagues from the trade union say that this can't work in the long run. What we need is free entrepreneurship, as far as possible unimpeded by the union. I know it doesn't always work. They also have a “fine” past, for example, in terms of employee participation. For ten years, the trade union has resisted employee participation in the Voest – until it could no longer prevent it. That's the problem. Look You're going to feel like it now! Did you know that the Voest Austria will most likely leave? [[Call the SPÖ: Such a fool!]] In 2018, if the blast furnaces need to be renewed, the Voest Österreich will most likely leave. You hear anything from the SPÖ? Is there something you can hear? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Crist.]] [[Call the SPÖ:Only from the Stronach!]] Read it, take a look at the studies! Look at what the Voest is already investing in the USA! [[Abg. Matznetter: But what for?]] Look at how the development... – The SPÖ has a big problem. [[Abg. Matznetter: You have no idea!]] [[Abg. Matznetter: On which high sea port...!]] – I believe that there are individuals at SPÖ, such as you, who have already understood it. The problem is that SPÖ is not free. The SPÖ is held hostage by the union. If the union does not want to, all the wheels will stand still, as we know. That's how it works at the SPÖ. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Abg. Matznetter:... Hochseehafen! He doesn't understand!]] – May it be that you have already understood it, Mr Matznetter! Unfortunately, this does not apply to everyone at SPÖ. But the ÖVP is not going much further. As far as economic recovery is concerned, I can't hear from you either. You're always talking about: We're not gonna bring anything else with the SPÖ. But where are your proposals? Where are your proposals? - Yes, I'm already excited. [[Abg. Wöginger: Let's tell you then!]] [[Rejoicing with representatives of ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wöger: Don't get done!]] For example, shop opening: No one at the ÖVP can so strongly deny the reality that he does not realize that the provisions on the opening of the shop have long been changed. [[Abg. Wöginger: On Sunday, that must be absolutely! That you can go to the Kika with the kids!]] Look at this. It needs new jobs, and they don't fall from heaven. [[Abg. That's where we have to open on Sunday!]] If we liberalize the shop opening, we have 10,000 new jobs at a time. Don't you want that? [[Abg. Wöger: Yes! Will we open on Sunday...!]] You don't want to because, unfortunately, you are also hostageed with your Christian-social past. That's the problem. [[Abg. Matznetter: (keeping the drawer of his pult in height) Mr. Colleague, open the shop...!]] The funny thing is that I always hear the following: If the ÖVP makes proposals, then always comes: Let's save at the ÖBB. [[Abg. Matznetter:... open the drawer!]] When the Socialists make proposals, it always says: We'll save the officials and the farmers. That's how the ball is played back and forth. That's not how it works. That means: Because you're arrested in this force, you should finally slow down! Above all, the Federal Chancellor must finally do something. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Yes, step back!]] He can't hide away any more. Let us look again at the question of refugees. We have the problem that 87 percent of refugees who come to Austria have a maximum compulsory school degree. 87 percent. [[Call the FPÖ: Less!]] - These are the official numbers. I hope the Ministry of the Interior has not provided the wrong figures to the budget service. These are official numbers: 87 percent. Now explain: How do you want to integrate these people into the labour market? They want to create 60 000 new jobs by 2020. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] I'm really surprised that you're not too stupid. Or has anyone ever used a calculator with you? You say on the one hand: Hurra, 60 000 new jobs by 2020! On the other hand, 95 000 immigrants come alone this year. [[Call the FPÖ:Illegale!]] Do you understand the bill that this is not going to happen? Can you tell me how this is going? The same applies, for example, in residential construction: We have 40 000 apartments too few. That's why there's no quiet living, especially in the agglomerations. Ask in Vienna what this looks like with the quiet living! This is because we have 40 000 apartments too few. [[Abg. Matznetter: We build community apartments in Vienna again!]] Now we still need at least 40 000 additional apartments because the refugees are coming. I'm just talking about this one, not the next year. You know you can't build so fast. And what do you want? – to build 10,000 new apartments. [[Call the FPÖ:Families' discount!]] You will write this very large, in a high-gloss brochure: The SPÖ wants to create 10,000 new apartments. [[Call the SPÖ:In addition!]] - Excuse me, have you never used a calculator? [[Abg. Wöginger: 30,000, not 10,000!]] - Okay, the ÖVP offers more, 30,000 apartments. [[Abg. Wöginger: Well, that's in there! You're supposed to...!]] That's not even how we manage to reduce the backlog. Have you ever noticed that this doesn't work out? [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Abg. Wöger: Why do you tell the untruth?]] .I'll tell you exactly what's in your paperwork. I hope they're right. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] Look at this. In the refugee question, the solution is quite simple. The solution is extremely simple: We only need to consistently bring back everything that comes to us – consistently. You know what happens then? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] Did you know that a refugee pays between €6,000 and €10,000 until he arrives here? He does not pay for the entire trip, he always pays in part. That is, for the first section he pays a few thousands, for the second, for the third, for the fourth, and at some point, that totals € 10,000. Then he's with us. The first question is why someone takes so much money in his hand to get somewhere, if he were safe in the next country. That's another question we don't even ask here. The second question is: How can it be prevented from paying any €10,000 to get here? – The answer is simple: By sending him back again. This is often not going to happen. Do you think that one twice or three times €10,000 paid to come to Austria when we send it back? - I don't think so. [[Call the SPÖ:No, he risks his life two or three times!]] – That’s exactly your policy! That's your policy. With your invitation policy, they seduce people into overcrowded boats and risk their lives. This is your invitation policy. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: This is diffuse!]] That's not my policy. I would tell people quite clearly: Go to the neighborhood, stay in the region, don't come to us! You do the opposite, you and Mrs Merkel; and Mr Chancellor is helping us firmly. They say: Come on, guys, we'll all take you in, it's for everyone! And you know that this is a lie; You know. You know it's a lie, it's not for all the place, but you suggest it to the people – and they're not stupid either: [[Abg. Krainer: Your speech is...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter]] They have phones, they have Internet, they have everything. You sit in a refugee camp – of course it is not very comfortable there, and of course you have to support the refugee camps, of course you have to help people on the spot – and see on the Internet: Hoppala, the Germans and the Austrians say: Hello, Refugees Welcome! - Of course they're coming. I would also come if I were a refugee, sure. The question is not whether they want to come, nor is the question whether the circumstances of life are improving for them; the question is whether we can vote on it all. Even if Merkel says: Yeah, we can do it! - No, we can't do that! We can't do it because we don't want to do it. I can also tell you why we do not want to: because the idea behind it is quite another, a subtle idea. The Chancellor has already betrayed himself. He has betrayed himself by saying that it is unfair that in the world there are people who have no wealth living in misery; that is unfair, we must share with these people. - That's what it's all about. That is, the Lord Chancellor wants nothing but to share our prosperity with those who come here. Now the question is whether a single mother, a minimum pensioner or a unemployed person wants to share his “fine” prosperity. That's the central question. If there is a majority in favour, then I am in favour immediately; I am a sincere democrat. Well, let's do a popular survey! Let us ask the people how many refugees they want to share as much of their excessive prosperity! Let's just ask her! Let's put the cards on the table! – But we don’t do that; we don’t put the cards on the table, but we pull people over the table. That's how it looks! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] We order the human being: You've been pleased to share your prosperity, and we're telling you who to do with! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hagen.]] That's what it's like: The government tells us who's a refugee and who's not. [[Abg. Matznetter: No...!]] Whenever I hear in the news that 6 000 people in need have come again, I wonder: Who can know? Who can know? What people are these? No one knows! [[Abg. Darmann:... Wrong information!]] [[Call of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] As long as you don't register these people, we don't know anything. We don't know anything about these people. [[Abg. Matznetter: But you believed...!]] They can be drug smugglers, they can be desertors, they can be IS fighters, that can be who wants. [[Abg. Matznetter: You know...!]] We don't know. We then know when these people in Germany meet in the system, when these people register in Germany, then we know it. If we look at the German statistics, then the world again looks quite different. It then looks like three-quarters of those who come have no asylum grounds at all. That is why the ORF, when it takes it exactly, and you too are not talking about people who need protection, but you have to talk about some of those who come need protection. That would be honest. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] That would be honest, and then we could talk about how we can find out who really needs protection and who doesn't. But you don't want to. I have already said it today, we have had a discussion today: The problem is, there are no limits on the Socialists. For a socialist, there is no Austria, no Slovenia, no Greece. There's no such thing as a socialist. The border in the socialist head runs between the bourgeoisie and the proletariat, between the exploiters and the exploiters – that is, an employee in Syria is worth more than an entrepreneur in Austria. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Königsberger-Ludwig and Mr Yılmaz.]] That's the reality of your policy, and that's why you want to alleviate the need as far as possible across the world – which is a good demand; so I think it's great. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittmann]] [[Abg. Heinzl: Tell me...!]] I think it's great that you say you want to alleviate the need all over the world by inviting all people to us. That's great, only the question is – if you want it –: Did we ask people about this? Is that what the Austrians are supposed to represent? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] Mr. Faymann is not a Syrian chancellor or a Greek chancellor – or what else he sees – he is an Austrian chancellor. And that is why Mr. Faymann should not hide himself, but he should finally get in the way, finally do what is expected of him – or he should resign and make room for someone who is ready to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e15873	In reply to the question, Mrs Mag. Reported on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party Mrs State Secretary, your speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e15895	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Chancellor Werner Faymann is taking part today and tomorrow in the EU-Africa Summit of around 60 Heads of State and Government, which is essentially the solution to the refugee issue at European and international level. This summit will be held, ladies and gentlemen, in April 2015. Since then it has been established that the Austrian Chancellor is also taking part in this summit, that is why for the Stronach team for several months – and at the latest after today's current European hour – it must be clear that the German Chancellor cannot answer the request personally at that time. [[Abg. Lugar: Would you have been able to fly just as later and leave dinner out...!]] Of course, I am acting as Secretary of State at the Federal Chancellor's Office and I am happy to answer this urgent question. I will also use the opportunity to make some things right and clear. Before I address your questions, I would like to make a few basic comments: The governments under Chancellor Werner Faymann have led our Republic through the financial and economic crisis since the end of 2008 so that Austria continues to be one of the most stable countries in the world. [[I should like to congratulate Mr Auer and Mr Wöginger on his work.]] Austria is viable, economically strong, and there is social cohesion, as it is hardly yet. [[call to the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Lugar: Not for long!]] The treatment of the current refugee situation also shows the strength of Austria, namely how we live our humanity and basic values on the one hand and for order and security in the interests of all those involved – the population, the forces, the volunteers and also the refugees – on the other hand. [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Abg. Lugar]] [[Call the FPÖ:Au hurt!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I can only recall briefly how the Faymann government has faced challenges for almost seven years, with which previous governments were not at the core. I recall the 2009 tax reform, which contributed significantly to the strengthening of purchasing power. We are continuing these efforts with the 2016 tax reform. With this tax reform decided only a few months ago in this House, we relieve it by 1st. January 2016 6.4 million people with over €5 billion – this is both absolute and in relation to economic performance expected the largest tax relief for people in Austria for decades. I recall the short-time work programmes with which we have prevented mass unemployment in the crisis and also the thinning of the number of employees in the enterprises. I recall the crucial contributions made by Austria to the stabilisation of the euro area. I recall the sustainable rehabilitation of social security schemes. I would remind you of the training guarantee for young people. I would remind you of the creation of the care fund and the reduction of the maximum number of students. I recall the expansion of the transport networks and the launch of the broadband offensive. I recall the stability levy for banks, speculation taxes and measures against tax fraud and profit-shifts. There was a clear trend change. So you see, ladies and gentlemen, that the right measures are being put in place at the right time and that Austria manages to get through the crisis in Europe. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Wöger.]] It is also clear that the international economic crisis has not yet survived, so the government is constantly taking counter-control measures. The examples are: the reduction in the additional wage costs, the housing offensive, and the tax reform to boost consumption, which is mentioned here again. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: That was a joke now!]] As in the past, we will also address the current and coming challenges – with careful planning, management and the necessary proportionality of the measures. In contrast, Mr Lugar, neither alarm nor polemic nor word aid solves any problems. [[Abg. Lugar: Then why don't you stop?]] [[call to the FPÖ.]] That is why I now come to the answers to your questions. Question 1: The topic of labour market has the highest priority for the Federal Government. It is true that we are in an economic crisis, even if first signs of relaxation can be seen. At the end of October, 340 000 people were still on the job market as a job seeker, around 71 000 being in training. At the same time, the number of persons employed rose by 32 000. The Federal Government has taken action. At the labour market summit at the end of October, it was decided to increase active labour market policy by additional resources – € 350 million per year. Given the continued move of refugees to Austria, it is of course necessary to maintain the balance on the labour market, so I consider the existing rules to allow asylum seekers only in those areas where there is a need for additional labour on a regular basis. For young asylum seekers, for example, there should be the possibility of completing a teaching in apprenticeship professions. Indeed, it is known that in the western federal states there are persistent apprentices in some sectors. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: Ms. State Secretary,...!]] At present, the AMS already has 20 000 asylum-seekers and eligible beneficiaries; over the next year it will be the 30 000. These persons have unlimited access to the labour market. The AMS seeks to make them work fit as quickly as possible with language courses, competence checks, further integration and qualification measures, and thus the social budgets are relieved. On question 2: I refer once again to the results of the labour market summit of 30. October. For example, the housing package and the energy network development will have a positive impact. The implementation of the housing package will invest €5.75 billion within five years and the Federal Government expects 20 000 new jobs. Energy grid expansion brings 2 500 new jobs through an investment of € 700 million in three years. Asylum seekers may be employed and traded solely by law three months after the application has been submitted. However, the actual access to trade is small because most of them are hardly able to provide certificates of qualifications shortly after their application for asylum. It is therefore essentially only one application industry to be considered. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is currently working on a draft recognition law, which is expected to be reviewed this year. The aim of this law is to simplify procedures for the recognition of foreign diplomas and vocational qualifications. It also provides for simplified procedural provisions for those entitled to asylum and eligible for protection who are not able to submit the necessary documents due to their situation of escape. In itself: Hardly an Austrian legal matter is – due to EU standards and jurisdiction – in the river as well as the commercial regulations. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lugar.]] Since the beginning of this government period alone, there have been four novels, the fifth has just been in review and the Council of Ministers is about to pass. At this point, I should like to refer to the labour market and economic summit. It was decided that in 2016 the guarantee volume of the AWS support bank will be expanded and made easier to access. The volume of AWS guarantees will be increased by around €100 million, enabling companies to invest €350 million. As an important project, I may mention the Alternative Financing Act: the crowdfunding. This has created a legal framework for alternative financing, and this is particularly true of the needs of newly founded and innovative companies. It enables simple and cost-effective corporate financing, it introduces rules on transparency and investor protection, and it creates a legal framework for crowdfunding platforms. You see, the policy of this Federal Government is to work constantly on concrete and improved framework conditions. Question 3: The Federal Government is pursuing a multi-stage approach to managing the escape movements. First priority must be the fight against refugee and escape movements in the affected regions, better protection and common hotspots at the European external borders are an essential element. Each € 1 billion will flow into a Syria Fund, Madad Funds, as well as additional funds for UNHCR and World Food Programmes. Secondly, it also needs better cooperation with Turkey. Austria has pledged €23 million in bilateral funding for the Syria Funds, UNHCR and World Food Programmes. This corresponds to the EU budget of about 2.3 percent of Austria. Federal Chancellor Werner Faymann is – as you know – just in Valletta to negotiate it with the other heads of state and government present. Thirdly, we must deal with current movements in Austria with peace, order and humanity. For this purpose, financial resources will be made available in the context of the 2016 budget; this will be discussed in the Committees here in the House in the coming weeks. The government finally gave the NGOs legal certainty. In an opinion of the BMI with the support of the Constitutional Service in the Federal Chancellery, it was made clear that the NGOs are acting as administrative agents of the BMI. The first funds for NGOs were transferred, and a new framework support agreement was signed. In this context, I would also like to take the opportunity to thank all the members of the police and the federal army, the public officials in the administrative units concerned, the NGOs, volunteers and rescue workers, for they have done great things in the last few weeks and months and they are still doing very, very valuable work, and this is not enough respect. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] On the question of budgetary consequences. ==References====External links== In September 2015, additional funds were allocated: € 350 million more scope for countries and communities in the Stability Pact, € 70 million more for the integration of asylum seekers into the labour market, € 75 million as a special pot for integration measures, in particular integrated language promotion concept, € 420 million more expenditure in basic supply in 2016 – in total about € 915 million in 2016. This number has been publicly known since then, and I reject the accusation of alleged concealment. To make this clear once and for all: There's no ominous internal government secret paper. The WIFO estimates costs at around €750 million, the Fiscal Council estimates the costs to be around €1.2 billion for 2016, and thus the experts of the Ministry of Finance are in the middle with their estimates. On the issue of safeguarding the southern borders of Austria. Today, the Ministry of the Interior has presented to the public its plans on how the border crossing can be made safer and more effective. For this purpose, structural measures have also been proposed, such as the fixing of the ground or the covering of waiting areas. The first measures are therefore to be implemented immediately. Of course, all parties are in constant contact and will coordinate all necessary further measures. In addition to this security, coordination with Slovenia and Croatia is also important at both official and political level, which, of course, works very well on our side, and I can praise our executive once again. Germany is also always involved and closely involved. Here again, I should like to make the following clear: We do not want the fences of any European state with barbed wire. A policy of demarcation or any state alone certainly does not solve any problems. The security of the EU's external border is, in any case, a priority. In addition, we also need a rapid establishment of hotspots in Greece and Italy. There it will be decided who will be admitted to an asylum procedure, and all those who cannot be admitted to an asylum procedure must return to their home countries. Those who are admitted must be distributed fairly and fairly to all countries in the European Union. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: And who will do it?]] With regard to protection zones in Syria, the discussion is under way internationally. Question 4: The Federal Government has launched substantial reforms this year. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] This includes the tax reform of 1. January 2016 brings a discharge of €5 billion. It is both absolute and in relation to economic performance expected the greatest tax relief for people in Austria for decades. The focus is on the reduction of small and medium incomes. In addition, last week, the labour market summit, mentioned several times, together with the social partners, reached a breakthrough in the bonus-malus system as well as in the additional wage costs. In addition, a number of improvements were also adopted for workers under a labour law package. On the topic of education: ==References== In November 2015, the Federal Government will present the educational reform. This is also the case since the 24th century. March of this year determined, known and since then also to be read in all newspapers. [[Abg. Lugar: The minister has just moved it! Not noticed yet?- Oh, my God!]] As regards pensions, the actual retirement age is increasing and expenditure is developing more slowly than expected. The Economic Research Institute has noted that the measures to date are effective, and that, according to the agreement, whether and what steps should be taken are still to be taken until 29. ==References====External links== In the first half of 2015, we achieved the target of 60 years and one month as defined in the government programme. The aim remains that people remain longer and healthier in working life and jobs for older people are created. I would point out that the pension budget has been undercut every year since 2010. In 2015, it will again be lowered. Reforms have been implemented to secure the crisis-proof payment process, such as the pension account original credit, invalidity pension New, increased hacker regulation and corridor pension. Finally: Financial compensatory negotiations with the countries are under way and will soon come into an intensive phase. Of course, we will also report on the results after completion. Finally, on your question of an administrative reform: It should be pointed out that we have defined various guidelines in the government programme as regards administrative reform, such as the Federal Government's Office or the measures taken at the Schladming government clause, including an outflow of the task reform and deregulation committee. For example, I should like to make these measures known on a number of occasions: the automatic labour regulations, the non-appropriate family aid, the standards and rules, the uniform commercial information system GISA – working time records are reduced, the trade regulations are debursed by approval exemptions. We have decided to discharge labour protection law, the wage and social dumping law, more fairness in competition, simpler and cheaper business start-ups, uniform framework conditions for a more attractive location and, of course, e-government services for citizens. In the case of electronic submission with mobile signature, there is a 40 percent savings in federal application fees, for example in the registration of a trade or in the marriage certificate – implementation by the end of 2015 –, there is also the withdrawal of the submission of the registration note in the administrative procedure and the possibility of the electronic registration, cancellation and re-submission of residence. Further innovations are automatic applications for birth and transfer, the automatic coordination with the information on help.gv.at, the merger of the corporate service portal with other state portals, the withdrawal of the obligation to submit documents and proofs according to the first template and uniform rules for electronic delivery. I should also like to refer to simplifications in procurement law, to the reform of the European Regional Development Fund or the platform data.gv.at.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e16133	We are now going into the debate. I would draw your attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes, with each club having a total speaking time of 25 minutes. Next speaker: Mrs Ing. Dietrich. I'll set you seven minutes of speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e16160	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs State Secretary, of course we knew, and we also expected that Mr Bundeskanzler, as he has often said, has no time for parliamentarians. For this very reason, we have put the essentials today to point out this problem. [[Abg. Pendl: This is necessary now! Since 9 in the morning...!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] I'll tell you: Today is the beginning of carnival, and if the satire magazine “Die Tagespresse” also asks: Where is the Federal Chancellor?, then you know that this is already the subject in artist circles, and even in the Middle Ages you already had the court fool who pointed out what was not right. [[Between calls at SPÖ and Abg. Lugar.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Chancellor is not here, we have discussed this issue, and we believe it is good and right that we address it in this way. [[Abg. Heinzl: Have you ever heard of “Time for the Essential ”?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] This article in the satire magazine goes on, and I would like to point out that colleagues from the SPÖ, for example, are on Facebook: “Indulgent evidence” already exists that the Federal Chancellor is still there. A cleaning woman read the inscription: Are the refugees gone? Can I get out of here? [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: What is this level?- Oh, my God!]] – So think You will find out what artists write about the situation in the Federal Government as a result of the observation of the situation! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The former Chancellor Schmidt died yesterday. He went into history alone because he was a perfect crisis manager. And in such a difficult situation as now, we would like to have someone at the head of the Federal Government who is really a crisis manager who recognizes the problems and who also has goals and visions. Yesterday in the main committee, I asked the Chancellor: Where is the border, how much can Austria absorb? – We know that Sweden has a population of 1 000 7.6 asylum seekers, Austria has 6.6, Germany has 3.4. Where's the border? Sweden has now said: We can't be anymore! It's enough! What's our limit? – People want to know that! People want to know from someone in the first place how high the load is, how he estimates it. [[Abg. Schopf:... Your opinion!]] The German Chancellor's answer was: Well, everything worked! The limit is reached when everything collapses! I'll tell you: This answer is too little for me! That's like when a truck operator says: Well, load it once, until the truck collapses. - It can't be! I expect a German chancellor to make a very clear statement, to limit this subject area and, above all, to highlight the protection of one's own population. [[In the case of the Stronach team and the Abg. Lintl.]] That's the fear that people feel outside. You have the feeling that there are so many coming now and we don't know where the end of the flag rod is. If we have someone in the government, he says: That's the target! That's how the Master Plan looks, then we could start something with it, whether it's 100 000 or 200 000. We hear numbers of 60 million on the go, and that is right to be afraid and horrendous. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwentner.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the population reads on the Internet that, for example, housing property can be seized in Bremen and Hamburg, and people wonder: Is that true of us, too? And there is no answer from the Federal Government. We would expect a clear positioning and a clear answer to the many, many questions that people have in this country. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Ladies and gentlemen, a social state needs borders, and it also has borders, namely, limits of financial viability. If we know that in 80 percent of countries the average income is lower than with us minimum security, then very, very many people have a reason to come to us. – But we can't do that, we can't vote it. We have to be so honest! That is why I urge the Federal Chancellor – Mrs State Secretary, I hope you tell him too – that he really has a clear position: Where is the border for Austria? How much does he want to record on our behalf? What does the Federal Government plan regarding this refugee crisis, which has a dimension that we cannot vote for Austria? Austria – and I do not share your opinion, Secretary of State, we are far from the model student anymore – has so many problems: We have the highest unemployment for 60 years! For 60 years! We do not know how to finance the pension system, and we do not have this wealth. The women have an average board of 890 €! 890 €! [[Abg. Steinbichler:... longer working hours!]] Many of those who have worked hard for their lives, who have raised children who have contributed something to this social state, today, at the end of the day, really have little to do with it. We have many, many homeworks that the Federal Government must finally take up and finally solve. And solidarity, our solidarity must be particularly true of our own people. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to see a Federal Government with a far-sighted view, a federal government that recognises the problems but also prepares solutions. We heard it today, and a year ago, the Minister of the Interior was told that a massive flow of refugees would come. ==References== November has been stated at the “FOCUS Online”, the Germans already knew a year ago that there will be these massive refugee flows, and no one has acted. The Federal Government is daily eating and has done so, as if nothing comes, according to the motto: Head into the sand, we're going to last! But we would expect ourselves and we would want a Federal Chancellor who, if problems arise on us, recognizes, addresses and seeks solutions. A year ago, it would have been much easier to build reception centres, to actively participate in the problems that do not grow so big that we do not lead to this kind of welcome culture. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm telling you quite honestly: This federal government has failed because it has not recognized the problems, has not addressed them and has not brought any solutions! [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] In this sense, I would like the Federal Government to see it behave better in the future, that it puts the interests of its own citizens in the foreground, because only in this way will it succeed to maintain social peace in Austria, which is so important to all of us, every individual here, and to solve this challenge that we face together. - Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e16321	Next word reported: Mr Muchitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e16343	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen in front of the TV screens! Please do not wander out, it is not as tragic as it has so far been presented by Mr Lugar and Mrs Dietrich. [[Rejoicing and intervening of Deputies Peter Wurm and Belakovich-Jenewein.]] I have to say: I think it's embarrassingly embarrassing. I don't think it's fair to move here about someone so much where you knew very well that the Federal Chancellor is not going to be here today. [[Abg. Lugar: We didn't know!]] It has neither coordinated nor made the date in Malta, and therefore it is not fair to another person to use it in this way. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and representatives of ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Abg. Peter Wurm: But the Social Minister Hundstorfer could be there or...!]] In my view, it is even more embarrassing that you have admitted in the previous speech to have made this urgent request today. – And that’s really a sourry! You don't do that, it's not worthy of politics! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lugar.]] Content: You have to make certain things clear, I think, when Mr. Lugar comes down here, for example – and please forget the 10 minutes of Mr. Lugar, because that was really embarrassing! – and says: [[Abg. Lugar: 20 was it!]] What do we do with 95 000 people who will then be on the labour market in Austria in the future? – Mr Lugar, please come here, you still have a speaking time, and explain to people the difference between asylum seekers and asylum seekers! Asylum seekers are not people on the labour market who are available, but they are asylum seekers. And between 95 000 and currently 12 500 and 30 000 next year is a huge difference! [[Abg. Lugar: Yes, that's true!]] Apart from: We have huge challenges to solve. The difference is, you come here, talk this country bad, talk the whole system bad, have no solutions, but actually make a call damage to our Austria! [[Abg. Lugar: I told you anyway what you should do! Watch out!]] Stop with that nonsense! We don't need that, it's damaging Austria's economic location. This insecures all people to invest accordingly here.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e16463	Mr Muchitsch, with all the emotions: I would ask you to be a little moderate in terms of the place we are in, namely in the House, but also because of the debate. You are speaking again, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e16482	So, unfortunately, I didn't know where I said something bad. The fact is one thing: We have 32 000 jobs. Mr. Lugar, get the calculator out! [[Abg. Peter Wurm: 60,000 asylum seekers in Austria we have!]] We have 32 000 open jobs, and we do not know how we are currently able to convey these jobs. That's a chance, that's a challenge, and it's exactly what you have to work on! We have increased employment, but we also have rising unemployment. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Belakovich-Jenewein and Mr Loacker.]] That is why our opinion here is quite clear: We must invest ourselves out of this crisis, and we must not try to dive through it with the spasm! That is why this federal government has put in place measures – and not only in 2015 now, but you know very well: 2008/2009 in the course of the financial and economic crisis, no other country in Europe has handled this crisis as well as this coalition under Chancellor Werner Faymann! That's why you can't just talk about certain things! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] On the investments: Now you can say all of this – this housing package, the tax reform. The fact is, this housing package is coming. They agreed on a package. And, Mr Lugar, whether these are 15 960 jobs per year or 20,000, that's what I'm trying to do. In any case, more jobs will be created, and that is the important message. Then you can unpack the calculator again. The fact is, this housing offensive is bigger than we've heard before. You know exactly – I don't keep anything –: We said in 2013 we need this housing offensive. This failed at the Veto or the non-unification of the countries at the time. Now we have a housing offensive, which will be dealt with in addition, where we invest in additional, and these are the important signs. On tax reform: Please, don't tell the people that the tax reform is nothing! Each individual should look at his wages or salaries in 2016 to find out what remains net more, and then he should form his own opinion. My appeal really goes to all political representatives: If we don't talk this country so bad, we don't talk it down, we're working together on solutions! This is actually the task of politics. And it is not only the responsibility of the Federal Government to work on solutions, but also the responsibility of the opposition. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e16555	Next speaker: Mr Wöginger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e16577	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! I do not understand why, in these debates, the situation of data and facts cannot be taken as it is. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: I don't understand that either!]] I don't understand, either, if you do everything you can to dissuade our country – no, I don't come with it – but I also think it's wrong, Mr Lugar, when you say that everything is great. [[Abg. Lugar: Now he's still coming with the stupidity!]] [[Abg. Peter Wurm: No, facts please!]] No, it's not! [[Abg. Peter Wurm: Eben!]] We have great challenges to face, but I would like to focus on the facts and facts. On the subject of the question, it says: ‘Economic, labour market and refugee crisis’. – A lot at once. I shall try to deal with this urgent question on the basis of these three points. There is the budget service of the house, which is greatly praised by us, but also by everyone else, currently the economic development in Austria in an international comparison. This is for me a location analysis, a status quo report, as our situation looks like. Growth 2015: 0.6 percent; 2016: 1.5 percent; 2017: 1.4 percent. This is the autumn forecast for economic growth. [[Abg. Peter Worm: How much do we have? What did we have in 2014? 0.4 percent! The forecast was 1.7 percent!]] 2014: 0.4 percent; 2015: 0.6 percent; 2016: 1.5 percent; 2017: 1.4 percent. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: Forget the forecasts! Look at reality! Do the forecasts vote? Have they voted once?]] – If everyone agrees that the forecast for next year is God better, what then prevents us from taking that as it is? [[Abg. Peter Wurm: Would we all like to believe, but that is not the reality!]] The second is the labour market. We have an unemployment rate of 5.7 percent – which increases, yes, but it also increases employment. We are currently in fourth or fifth place in the European Union, with youth unemployment in second place. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: Seventh place in the meantime!]] Our inflation is 0.9 percent this year, the public deficit is 1.9 percent, and next year it is 1.6%. The debt level, which is far too high, I say – the mortgage is not inextricably involved – is 86.6 percent, next year 85.7 percent; in the EU comparison it is 92.9 percent. That's the data situation. And that's a challenge. But why not lose one word here about those measures that were put in place, but whose implementation was not quite easy, and I do not know, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Which one?]] Take the tax reform, a package of €5 billion: I am now 13 years in this house, and I cannot remember – we have ruled with this page, and we have ruled with the side over the past few years – that there has been a tax reform with this volume in all these years. [[towards FPÖ]] [[towards SPÖ]] Although there have been tax reforms, not to this extent, with over €5 billion discharge! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler]] With gross income – gross income! – of 2 500 € this means that a thousand more per year is left. Why mention You don't? Why is it wrong to give back money to people? From my point of view, this is an invigorating measure, which helps boost the economy. This should all of us vote more positively and lead to the end of this eternal pessimism being stopped in these ranks! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] Mr Lugar, I do not understand that you are wrong in quoting from papers that are publicly available to the press about which has been reported in almost all the daily media. I would like to say to Mr Muchitsch whether this is more or less jobs, and this cannot be said in the past that these are indicative values. But if the 30 000 new dwellings are to be taken out of some 20 000 jobs alone, why are you talking about 10 000 jobs? Take She's holding the 20,000! After your arithmetic, it's too little anyway, but why do you consciously take other numbers? This is the paper in which the government has agreed on a wide-ranging labour market and economic package. Just take that as it is, and do not represent things ever worse! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] These are power packs that are brought over the stage and implemented with maximum effort. This will help people in this country, our economy and the workers. A total of €9 billion and up to 60 000 jobs – in times like these that are not easy! – with a housing package, with an additional wage reduction. How many applications we have already discussed here, which is the result of a reduction in the additional wage costs! Now she comes in several steps with about 1 billion €. Also included is the strengthening of labour market policy. The challenges exist in particular in the area of older workers, because we feel the most demographic development there. That's the baby boomer generation that's over 50 years old now. We are giving more resources in this area because we see that they are being used successfully there, especially for those over 50 years of age who are longer unemployed. This has to give us thought, for these people it is extremely difficult to find a job again in the current situation. Therefore, integration aid is a good instrument, so we have better supported short-term work, so there should also be special training in the field of socio-economic enterprises. We are committed to this system, and therefore I do not understand why this is not included in the discussion. A work law package is also linked to a much higher level of flexibility when travelling on duty so that employees do not have to stay somewhere after 10 hours and cannot drive home to their families. On the other hand, we meet some demands: the right to information for part-time workers when employed; transparency in all-in contracts. These are the points that many workers' representatives have repeatedly called for. This is included in this package. I think this is the right signal, even in this tense situation of our economic and labour market. Reasons Please don't make these things bad! We don't need to do anything about it, but what's weighing, that's what we say in the Inn district, and so we should do it here. The last point is the refugee crisis. What is being discussed in this country on a daily basis, what is happening about social media, does not, ladies and gentlemen, require this country, and the people who depend on it have not deserved it. I said it at this point a few months ago: This situation needs to be handled with propriety and home mind. That is why it is about helping those people who need protection that we also distribute them, not only within Austria, but throughout Europe. There will have to be a European solution! Germany, Austria and Sweden alone will not be able to cope with this situation, but we must take national measures because other countries, such as Germany – we saw it again only yesterday – are constantly taking different measures and thus changing the situation again. I live on the Bavarian border, we have these refugee flows. The takeovers work well in themselves, but we must look forward to them – and here we are all called upon, ladies and gentlemen – and also at national level to take the right measures in this area. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: “To and for themselves”!]] Hetzerei will not solve the problem, and we will not be able to solve it with an overly welcome culture, but we must solve it together, ladies and gentlemen. And that is the most important point on this issue.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e16787	Next speaker: Member of the Commission. Belakovich-Jenewein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e16808	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, Only one word to the questioners of this urgent question: I'm not quite sure why you asked Chancellor Faymann this question. [[Abg. Lugar: Because he's the boss!]] When it comes to employment or labour market policy, it might have been more useful to ask the Minister of Labour. [[Abg. Lugar: The Faymann is supposed to be the boss! It's alleged!]] The Minister might have had time today. It has always been difficult for the Secretary of State to answer, because she has not been involved in this issue at all. - Just so much for it. I have listened very carefully to the statements made by my two previous speakers. Both have said that Austria is not meant to be bad – I give them right – but there is nothing good and nice to talk about. The fact is, Mr Wöginger – he's just chatting – we have over 400 000 unemployed, and we're going to get even more over this winter. It is quite possible that we will have up to half a million unemployed in the winter. To make yourself here now and to say that everything will be great because we now have a tax reform and a labour market summit and build 20,000 homes is not right either. This is a step in the right direction, but will not solve the problem. Mr Wöginger, I have to give you a little bit – now you have settled down – and I would be interested in the following: For more than a year or more, the Federal Procurement Act has been negotiated with the involvement of the social partners and with the involvement of the countries; a law that would also have been important for the Austrian local policy would have had the opportunity to act as a best bidder, as it were. There was an agreement, the law came on the agenda – and on Monday in the morning the ÖVP made a request for a postponement, supposedly because the Tyrolean state captain or any economic councillor does not want to have it. I can't understand. I really thought on Monday: Is this now a justamental point of the ÖVP, or is that so, because the ÖVP is making only more of a policy for the large industry? [[Abg. Lopatka: No! Read the comments!]] It can't be anything else. [[Abg. Lopatka: Read the comments!]] It was packed. And what you knew on Monday at 8 o'clock in the morning, didn't you know on Friday? – It can't be! Of the ambitious law planned a year ago, about 20 percent were left – more has not been left. And you didn't even do that now! I say it honestly to you: This is already a poverty certificate for this alleged economic party. One word to Mr Lugar, because this urgent question comes from him: It has also said to your group there that we would not have voted in any way. So everything that would help the business location a little bit, don't you agree?! – Your representative, Mr Hagen, said that in committee. Ask him if you don't know! – So so much about the economic policy of the Stronach team; I wanted to tell you that too. In other words, we will continue to have sub-contracts that are not transparent, where we do not know where they come from, what they are doing, whether they have already become conspicuous. We'll continue to have big companies. All of this is still possible. I'm telling you quite honestly, too. My current impression of this federal government is not particularly good, so I have serious concerns... [[Abg. Lopatka: Go, that's surprising!]] – Mr Lopatka, you can already make fun of this, but after what you have offered here today, after this permanent mutual stop, when the Federal Chancellor speaks, the ÖVP turns away demonstrationally and does not applaud when the Minister of the Interior speaks, is not applauded by the SPÖ, after all this I have great concern that it really really is on 3. A decision can still be taken on December. [[Abg. Lopatka: Have you ever had a good impression of this federal government?]] [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: That's not true!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And that would have been just the first stage. What about the remaining 80 percent? When are they supposed to come? Not at all? These are measures that would have been necessary and useful, and that is exactly where it goes, and that is not understandable. Asylum seekers who are pushing on the labour market: the next problem we will now face. There is currently the possibility of teaching, teaching, for asylum seekers up to 25 years of age. Thankfully, Mrs State Secretary, you have mentioned how great this is, only you have forgotten to say that more than 50 percent of these asylum seekers stop teaching. That is, in reality, we are producing job losses. This model, I believe, has failed, is definitely not a success model, not even 300 of those who have done so. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There is also a bit of a concern when Klubobmann Schieder said today that we must “open the labour market to a large extent”. “Measurable” is also such a description, what is “measurable”? That's also a description I don't like to hear. I would rather rely on Minister Hundstorfer, who says – I hope he keeps word – that the labour market remains. But we have had the problems for a long time, regardless of the asylum seekers. These problems are also home-made. Through the opening of the east, of course, we have had an increase of cheap workers from the east. And I know now the argument will come again: Yes, the bad FPÖ did not agree with the wage and social dumping law! – Yes, Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig, but for good reason we did not agree. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: That's right!]] On the one hand, this wage and social dumping law is designed in such a way that it meets the Austrian companies in particular, because many others do not yet have the opportunity to check the social charges in their home country. In other words, there is already a preference of the companies from the outside. And on the other hand, it's a law that I put in place, so to speak, but I can't execute it, because I don't even have the staff for it. What does such a law mean? – This has been a pure placebo law, we know that too. I know that, of course, individual companies are being caught again and again, that may be already, but the very big blow is not that, and you know that very well. That's what you told us about the original law in 2011 and then also when it was intensified. So if it were such a great blow, we wouldn't have to reform it and intensify it constantly. But the wage and social dumping law – and now I come back to the federal procurement law; They will give me the right thing – it only makes sense if you have it in combination with other means, for example in combination with the best bidder principle. Then it would have brought an advantage. Unfortunately, it is true that two days ago, because of the ÖVP, the former economic party for small and medium-sized enterprises, now only for the large industry, a economic package for the Austrian labour market could not be decided in the Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e16965	The next item is Mrs Lichtenecker's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e16986	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Klubobmann Lugar, Mrs Dietrich, one question: What or who was Franz Strohsack when he arrived as a 22-year-old in Canada, and that in 1954? - He was a business refugee. [[Abg. Lugar: He was Migrant, we have nothing against it!]] [[Abg. Lugar: No, he wasn't a business refugee!]] Frank Stronach, as he later called himself, was nothing but a worker who had seen his future of high unemployment and problems in Styria, he was an economic refugee. [[Abg. Lugar: Canada was an immigration country, that's a difference!]] [[Abg. Lugar, shit!]] As he announced to the city magazine “biber” in an interview, he broke up with a small suitcase, 200 dollars in his pocket, a jeans, two shirts, a pair of underpants and a one-way ticket. Yeah, and what happened to him? – He has become a successful entrepreneur in a country, Canada, of which we know it is an open country, a country that offers opportunities. [[Abg.: (in the direction of Team Stronach) But he didn't get in illegally, did he?]] [[Abg. Peter Wurm: Did the Stronach get in illegally?]] [[Abg. Lugar: Canada was an immigration country!]] And that's exactly how the current government represents itself. Some time ago, the new government was elected in Canada. And how does the 30-member cabinet come together? We've been able to read this in the newspapers in the last few weeks. It looks like Canada, so the statement is, and exactly half of the 30 ministers are women. “Among them” – and now I quote – “is a Muslim fleeing from Afghanistan. Four ministers are Sikhs, two of whom were born in India. Two Chefs of the resort come from the circle of native Indians." And so on and so on. It is a colorful diversity of a country that has also seen migration as an opportunity. And frankly, It is already very cheap to hold today's debate on the back of people who have fled from war, distress and persecution. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: Another record!]] It is also a great difficulty to bear precisely on the back of these people the big problems we have in the labour market, in the economic sector, and it is particularly bad.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e17120	Madam President, I have addressed this to everyone in general, in the debate, to really pay attention to the way in which it is expressed. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e17136	The debate today requires clear and sharp words. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Lopatka: Not bad!]] In the field of economics and refugees: Finally, this also offers a great opportunity. In Austria there are many areas, the nursing sector, the gastronomy, where we know exactly that this work would no longer be possible without migrants. [[Abg. Steinbichler: Why not? Why not?]] In this respect, it is also a great and important contribution that migration makes. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] But also in the entrepreneurship field: Every third self-employed person in Vienna was or is Migrant. And they make an important contribution, and this is not only in trades that we all know, but increasingly in the knowledge-intensive industries. If you shake your head, Mr Worm, I would ask you to look at the statistics. In the same way, the founding statistics also look like. It is also a great enrichment. I say to you, too, that the approaches are to be taken to do the same. There are support programmes in the Netherlands, Germany, Switzerland for migrants who want to make themselves independent in the business sector. This is also a matter of low level of access, of reforming the trade order, of micro-crediting. There will have to be a variety of bundles in order to actually do so in this form. But it is possible, we see and know the examples. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: You are deceiving the unemployed in Austria! See how many unemployed we have in the gastronomy and the care sector! 55,000 unemployed!]] Look at how many jobs can't be occupied! Look Please contact the teachers who are open in Tyrol and how many jobs can be filled! That's exactly what you should look at instead of spreading any things that don't agree in this form. Stay with the facts! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Peter Wurm: You should help the unemployed!]] That we have challenges in the labour market is clear. But this is completely independent of the people who are looking for protection here in this country. That is exactly what we are going to grant here.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e17240	Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the honourable Member for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e17256	It is also, of course, about the future design of the labour market. But of that, Mr Lugar, we have not heard from you today. Of course, it is about reforming the tax system. It is a question of reducing the additional wage costs to create the appropriate jobs. This is about investment in the future. It is precisely this budget that shows that it does not do so. We have too little budgets for education, too little for research and, above all, too little for climate protection and environmental protection, and this is a serious mistake, because these are precisely the areas that create jobs. A small success report presented yesterday in Upper Austria on the topic of ecoenergy clusters, 15 years old. Meanwhile, there are 175 companies that are active there and export to 109 countries, and turnover has increased tenfold. Above all, the number of employees has increased from 1 620 to 9 400. These are success factors! That is exactly where you have to invest, not cut short, just as the current budget does. Of course, it is also about reducing bureaucracy. Mrs. State Secretary, you are also entrusted with the subject of registers. Nevertheless, there are incredibly many uncertainties and questions about this whole subject by very many small and micro-enterprises. These whole questions have not yet been resolved. I think this is a serious mistake that the Federal Government does not provide for legal and planning certainty, nor does it provide a corresponding support for micro-enterprises. That is precisely what is necessary in order to move forward. And these are the factors, ladies and gentlemen, that we need in order to actually strengthen the labour market, to support and to revive the economy and to see migration clearly as an opportunity.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e17301	Next, Mr Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e17322	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! As Mr Lugar's request is very general, I should also like to repeat the comments made by Mr Rädler, because of the fact that integration has come to the fore. So at Mr. Worm, I didn't wonder that he accused me of making money, but with you, I'm totally surprised. Your mercy – Mr Karas has also spoken of mercy and Christian social values – is likely to end with your ÖVP voters and with your churchgoers. That's terrifying. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Well, I've been thinking for a long time about how I'm making my statements, especially as far as this is concerned. I've been here for a long time, too...
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e17366	Mr Schellhorn, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e17381	I would like to start with an overview because we always wonder why we fall back so much, why our economic location does not develop further. I want to start with an overview or give you an overview of the deteriorations that have occurred. I may begin with the following: first with the register, second with the operating ban on deduction of salaries over €500 000, third with restrictions on operating expenses on voluntary deductions, fifth with the group tax, with the limitation of the deductibility of interest and licence payments, with allergens, debureaucratisation of the gastronomy, with the increase of dividends-Kest for entrepreneurs, with the increase in the levy at the KESt in the distribution of dividends for investors, with the new turnover tax, with the sect tax, with the NOVA, with the car insurance tax, with the tobacco tax, with the excise duty on consumption, with the corporate taxes, with the bank tax, with the profit-free amount, with the GmbH light, with the depreciation and much more. We wonder that we do not have economic growth, that we no longer have entrepreneurship. We also wonder that there is simply a depressive mood that you both have to answer, red and black, and that there is no upturn at all. This leaves me with the conclusion that you have no interest at all in the fact that something will be better in this country. It leaves me with the conclusion that as a coalition partner, both of you are just waiting for your death, for nothing else. It is the standstill in this country that you are promoting. [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] However, let me say something positive about this labour market summit. This was not a labour market summit, but rather a labour market mole – and nothing else. So if you're talking about what's come out now, If you know what the companies are talking about, it is basically a matter of working time flexibility, that the companies can cover their peaks, and that there are long-term settlement periods. This is quite important, and that is also crucial, that is what the entrepreneurs tell us, that they want it because it is not so simple anymore. There is also a very clear example of where it worked. That's where I have to praise the metallurgy. There it has worked because there is a division and individual agreements and also a division. You have to do this in the working time scheme, and you know that. It is also very important for agreements to be reached here at the operational level. The extension to twelve hours at smoothing time is still open. That's in your government agreement, in your work agreement. You haven't worked that out yet. You also did this at the labour market summit – well, it took only one and a half hours, because then the press conference had to take place – cannot be illuminated. You have agreed so much on a bonus malus rule, and above all you have made one, namely that you have no longer calculated the active travel time, that was your advantage. This labour market summit was not that big at all. It was bad for me at the educational summit. That's not even going to happen again. As far as working time flexibility is concerned, I would like to draw attention to a number of points. Why can't we, why can't you do it, or why does it prevent social security, perhaps also the trade union, that we apply a system similar to that in Germany? In Germany, for example, more flexible work can be done without this flexibility being immediately penalised and expensive with additional costs. There are not only seasonal fluctuations in tourism, but also in production. For these reasons, you, Red and Black, or the Chamber of Commerce and Trade Unions, should agree that you should be here for people in the country – and not for yourself. The Chamber of Commerce should be there for employers in this country, not only for themselves, but also for the benefit of the general public. I would therefore like to make the following request to conclude: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e17495	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Schellhorn is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e17565	Next speaker: Mrs Schenk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e17586	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I have to take a brief look at the statements made by two previous speakers. Colleagues Muchich from SPÖ have to check that he has been able to associate with “little people”, with people who earn little, perhaps not quite that way, he has lived in a social building for a long time and as a member of the parliament, paid € 258.99 for his apartment and also said in an interview that he has a wife and three children, he doesn’t pay € 1,000 for an apartment. [[Oh, call the team Stronach.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, now you are saying this to your electorate and to the minimum earners, to the people in Austria, who do not deserve very much, who cannot afford housing, no Members' salary! So much is addressed to your address. There you should leave the church in the village. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I would also like to comment briefly on the comments made by the Greens, which can be referred to as unnecessary, because many have not come up with proposals for solutions here, and respectfully also to what this urgent request now aims to do. I can also tell you, perhaps you can create order in your own ranks and in your nesters, especially at the Green Youth Styria, which called in September this year for an anti-patriotism demo. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! Are you patriots, are you nesters, are you Austrian denyrs? What is an anti-patriotism demo, ladies and gentlemen? Perhaps someone can still address this point and get a position. I would now like to come to the content of the urgent matters, which have been very detailed and which have also been openly addressed to the problems which have also been presented here. The problems are infinitely great. We have, and I have to repeat, the highest unemployment in 60 years. The Secretary of State has reported the success story of the Faymann Government in response to the urgent question. Where's the success story? [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] You said we should not use flakes, we should present solutions. Where are your solutions? And if I listen to the problems, the problems we are being told about the people we are talking to, in the form of e-mails or even in personal conversation, I must say, these problems are very big, and people don't feel understood by the politicians or represented. We're always talking about how important children are. This is, I believe, mentioned by every group in every debate. Children are our future. – Yes, that’s right, I do. We can all agree. Only, how does it look with the children and with the future of the children, my dear ones Ladies and gentlemen? This is especially addressed to the representatives of the government parties and to the Secretary of State. There are 408,000 children in Austria at risk of poverty. For all who do not know, I now quote from an article of the “Kronen Zeitung” of the 10th century. November of this year: “Austria is one of the richest countries in the world. Nevertheless, 408,000 children and young people are at risk of poverty. They have fewer friends, are more often ill and do not go beyond the education level of their parents. Poverty will continue to be inherited.” My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this should give you some thought, because this is a problem, an obvious problem that moves on and concerns the future of these children – children are our future – who have no positive prospects. In the education system, a reform is a long way to go. ==References== In November, I believe, this educational programme will be presented with educational reform. If one considers that 25 percent of school leavers cannot read meaningfully now and have problems in calculating, then, ladies and gentlemen, one can only regard this as a failure of this government and also of your minister. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I would also like to address the area of refugees, asylum, and associated it with the non-existent integration. There it is also sick at all corners and ends. I would like to show you briefly the following. [[The speaker keeps photos up to date.]] If there are own lockers of men and women in indoor pools in Austria, that is clear. But if there are women's and women's own lockers – where the difference is, I can't find out now – and then the ladies say "Migrant women's dressing room, every Monday from 8 p.m. and every Saturday from 10.30 a.m. to 11.30 p.m. to indoor bathing season closure. Thank you for your understanding,” the question arises: Is this a sign of integration if there are already different lockers for women and women? So this is a failure that needs to be addressed here. It is always said that in the various Internet forums, on Facebook or wherever certain stories are invented, everything is not right, everything is fine with the refugees, no chaos will be left behind, there is no problem at all, the trains will be left clean. I can also show you how trains will be left behind and how the train crew will have to deal with them. [[The speaker holds another photo.]] It is also proof that Mr. Kern of the ÖBB has already announced that he is demanding €15 million. So it's not all so vain, because he might have come up with a lot of money going in to make the trains fit again to ensure a normal train traffic again. So, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen, don't just wipe these problems out of the table! Take it apart and take the problems that we present here and which are not just ours, but the problems of the Austrians, seriously, because we, you represent the Austrians. We are, you're all elected. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] And that's your responsibility that you don't live up to. Finally, I would like to take a brief look at the security sector. We discussed the safety report this morning. There was also a flowering formula, it's all right, we're such a safe country, everything vainly wondrous. The exact opposite is the case. I can remind you that I already commissioned a study in November of last year on how it is about security in Austria, how the Austrians see their security needs satisfied by politics. 64 percent have already said that their security needs are not covered by politics. But that was still before the refugee crisis and before all the problems we had. If we were to make this survey today, then a completely different number would come out. The fact that the security needs of the Austrians are high also shows up-to-date reports – I don't know if you read newspapers regularly – that the Austrians cover themselves with weapons. The Austrians no longer feel secure, the numbers of collapses are rising, we have heard this today in the debate on the security report. And these are facts you can't wipe from the table. Your policy has failed. It needs to be worked on solutions, but on real and right ones and not empty promises and flattites. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e17720	Mrs Schenk, I have a list of 24 pages of legitimate terms here. I am not adding this list to the term “weeders”, but it was at the border. Next word: Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e17744	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate Seers and Advisors! I really read to myself urgent requests from the opposition parties very carefully when I am allowed to speak, and I have done so today. Mr Lugar, however, I have really been very hard to find a red thread on your question, because this is very diffuse, because it is only so depressing by negative expressions, of accusations which I do not think are justified. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] And the speeches of your colleagues also make it very difficult for me to recognize a serious debate – in your case. Mr Wöginger has already mentioned it in his speech, of course there are challenges in Austria, we know that. We have challenges in the labour market, we have challenges in terms of refugee problems. [[Abg. Lugar: Then why don't you do anything?]] Of course, there are challenges, but just as you represent it, Mr Lugar, and also the colleagues of your party, that nothing happens at all, it is simply not. If one wants to have a serious debate, namely, really in the sense of the Austrians, then on both sides one could see the glass half full and not always half empty as you do, or even already poured out. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: Three-quarters learn!]] – No, it has happened even more, Mr. Collegue of the Freemans, really! [[Abg. Peter Wurm: Three-quarters empty, I said!]] No, not that either, from my point of view, don't stop. I am simply telling you a few things that we have carried out in recent years, especially in the field of labour market policy, or measures that will be implemented in the next few weeks. As you all know, not only can the labour market be regulated by a measure. Yes, we have people who are unemployed, we have a lot of people who are unemployed, and I think it is our job to help these people get back to the labour market, not a question, but to do so, we need a bundle of measures. In particular, there is a need for economic recovery, because without economics, without entrepreneurs, without companies, there are no jobs either. Labour market policy alone will not do this. I am convinced that the tax reform – even though it is still so small spoken by some here in this House – will help to boost the economy, because most of this 5 billion tax relief will really come to the earners, to the earners, to the small earner and also to the earner, and because this money, we all know, will go back in the so-called economic cycle. That is why the tax reform will boost the economy – I am convinced – and it will also benefit everyone and everyone, as we have heard a few times today. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we do not want this tax reform to be a minor one either. And let's not say our successes are small, so I would really ask from this point on! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On the other hand, I am convinced that the housing offensive – even if it is spoken small by you, Mr Lugar – will also lead to job creation. We have already heard that about 20,000 homes will be built, which we urgently need on the one hand, for the landlords and, of course, for the economy to be boosted. I am also convinced that we need good cooperation between entrepreneurs and employees. From my point of view, social partnership has been well established in this area in the last fifty and sixty years, and it always provides for a balance of interests, including in collective treaty negotiations. I am also convinced that we will work together with the representatives of the economy to ensure that the bonus malus system can actually become effective, so that entrepreneurs will also be aware of the value of older workers and that they will not release older workers, but may even be able to re-enter businesses, because these people are particularly difficult. The bonus malus system, I am convinced, will contribute to this. A few points that we have implemented in active labour market policy in recent years, you all know: We invested 120 million € for employment initiatives for people aged 50+ alone in 2015. This also shows success when you look at the numbers: 80 565 people have found a job from the AMS, out of the mediation. I think that the integration aid and the so valuable socio-economic enterprises, where on the one hand people themselves receive self-esteem and on the other hand funds return to the economy, have made a significant contribution to this. We will again invest €250 million in this area in 2016/2017. On the other hand, we have also put in place measures for the younger people who want to enter the labour market and who also have a particularly difficult time. You all know: We have implemented the training guarantee, we have implemented the production schools, the youth coaching and the apprentice coaching are actually accompanying many young people who are particularly difficult on the labour market. That is very, very essential. And in cooperation with the four ministries – labour and social, economics, education and youth – the implementation of the training obligation will be phased out next year. We've implemented all of this. I am glad, Mr Lugar, that Chancellor Faymann is directing the government ship, and I am glad that you are not this person or your party, or else all Austria would fall into depression. Thanks to God, Austria sees this differently, because the satisfaction of the Austrians is a very high one. We have heard it today, we are fourth in the European Union. And that is already a merit of the Austrian Federal Government.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e17851	The next item is Mrs Jank's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e17872	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Lugar, I have listened to your remarks today, Mr Lugar, I have heard your remarks today that everything is terrible, everything is bad, and I have to say that somehow I have the impression that this world downfall mood you are spreading has now manifested itself, but it is obviously coming out of your own party. [[Abg. Krainer is at the government bank and talks with State Secretary Steßl]] [[Abg. Lugar: Mr President! But it really can't be that the crane is standing there!]] [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: The Lord Krainer!]] [[Abg. Lugar: Not everything!]] It's probably the inner sensitivity you have, and that's why you have to take all of us into duty here today so that we can help you deal with it. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Desperate – desperate! – is tried to present everything here in a forest and meadow request as nothing and to speak badly of everything. This is the only thing that can be read out of this request. It is also significant that you did not know that the Federal Chancellor is not present today. Of course, Mrs Dietrich knew – as she said – that the Federal Chancellor is not present today, so maybe you can talk a little bit to each other. It is important to me that: In order for us to be able to properly sort out the economic situation we have today, we must also look into the past and not simply hide and ignore the past. We have experienced the biggest financial and subsequent economic crisis for decades in 2008, and we are still fighting to deal with this crisis – not only in Austria but also in all other countries. That there is a need for action and that there is not the switch that anyone can put around so that everything will be all right again, that will hopefully be consensus. It is also necessary to see what has already been done – tax reform has just been addressed – in order to bring about a recovery. Before the crisis, we had an increase of 3.62 percent in GDP, in 2008 it was 1.55 percent, and in 2009 we fell to a minimum of 3.8 percent. You have to get away from this minus first. Today, with a small intermediate height, we have commuted ourselves to this modest growth, which it is now. I would like to take the impression that if the government does something, it will simply be either bad-talked or, even worse, not even noted, now refer to the labour market and economic summit, would like to refer to it in order to have recorded the results of the summit here, so that we also know what is happening. The focus is on a reduction in additional labour costs and a housing offensive. Overall, the package contains measures and impulses that contribute to the creation and security of 60 000 jobs and an investment volume of over €8 billion. We are particularly concerned about the significant reduction in additional labour costs in order to relieve companies and – some colleagues have already done it today – to create scope for new employees to be recruited or jobs created. In total, additional wage costs are gradually reduced by up to € 1 billion by 2018. This alone causes the creation of 14 000 jobs, thus enabling businesses to be active here. Let's take a look at this business! – A medium-sized company with 50 employees will have savings of between €14 000 and €16 000 annually. I would also like to refer to the programme for more quiet living. 30 000 – and not 10 000 – new apartments for 68 000 people are being built. That is, we are not only going to cover the quantity, but of course we are also going into the quality with new apartments. Another economic impulse in our government package is the expansion of the electricity infrastructure. The upgrade of our electricity routes will move an investment volume of up to € 700 million. With this package, we also increase investment in the business sector by extending the guarantees. Guarantees are a very important tool for companies to make investments so that they can secure their borrowings, because – and this is a secondary issue, but generally a major issue – of course, the regulation of banks, the European regulation of banks, will create many problems for companies in the future, but not only the banks whose core task is to make money available to businesses. The expansion of the guarantees by € 100 million will therefore be an important impulse for our businesses. The fact that it is becoming increasingly economically poor, as the urgent request suggests, is not true. Very briefly and in conclusion: The Wifo has currently presented the results of the third quarter. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: Prognosis!]] And of course, all of this is not going up so fast, but it has increased the export business, and we all know we deserve more than half of our assets, our economic performance, in exports. Tourism has reached a new peak in guest arrivals, inflation remains low, GDP has increased by 0.3 percent compared with the last quarter. Of course, you can always ask: Yes, what is it?, but I did at the beginning how the starting position was. That is, we are – and now I hope that this will also have a continuity – on a path that shows up. Unfortunately, the patience required by the implementation, the consistent joint implementation of the packages presented and decided by the Government must be ours. We would all wish for a much faster growth, a much faster return to the pleasant times we had before the economic and financial crisis, and it is also the goal of getting there, but at present it is not so fast. Trust is what we have to broadcast as responsible. And trust in the economy is one of the foundations for doing something. Those who don't trust will not invest anything will not move. But trust is a tender plant, and what you have done with your request today, Mr Lugar, does not help to make this plant grow.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e17968	Mr. Dr. Kassager is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e17990	Mr President. High house! It has already been noted several times today that this urgent request covers a wide range of forests and meadows, and such assessments, I think, are also pleasing. In fact, this is right, which also gives me the opportunity to carry out a few things in principle. I believe that in the Austrian population, a feeling is becoming increasingly broad – and rightly broad – that in this country, as well as on the continent of Europe, changes are taking place in a dramatic way, giving rise to concern, the feeling that these changes are not a way to improve, but that these changes will worsen the fundamental situation. I share this feeling, too. The Austrian population also feels that it is not represented by the decision-makers in the European Union or by the decision-makers in the Austrian Federal Government in the sense that these institutions represent their interests, share their concerns, take these feelings seriously and align their actions accordingly. That's why the voters also walk in crowds: because this feeling is justified. Nothing happens! We talked about migration today. We live in a country that is unable to protect its borders – no more and no less. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Hagen.]] I come from Styria and would advise you, drive down to the border, look at the whole thing and talk to the people who feel there! Here in the high house you will not notice anything, of course, but look at this and take it seriously! The proposals for solutions taken from the EIAs in this context are as follows: We are waiting for a European solution! However, if you realize that this matter is not a Community matter and can only be implemented in a consensus of 28 EU countries, you disagree. That's a thing of impossibility! They are unable to strategicly assess what is possible and what is not possible. Mr Klubobmann Lopatka has today set the example that due to the material and human conditions, the Greeks would be able to secure the borders accordingly with their boats et cetera, and then carried out: We will demand this from the Greeks at European level! However, I and also the Austrian population lack the belief that this request was made first with the necessary urgency and that this request would lead to a change in the behaviour of Greece. That won't happen. The Greeks will say: Have a nice day, Mr. Lopatka, and we wish you a nice week! - That won't happen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Also, the additions to the SPÖs that sound good, namely that we have to help on the ground, are correct, but if implicitly connected with the fact that it is our task, so to speak, to save the world and distribute prosperity in the world equally, then I can point out that this is a utoposic, an utopia and so on. What is essentially happening? – Migration movements are taking place in states with prosperity, with strong social systems, with high prosperity and good social systems, and we can now choose two variants. We can say: Yes, we welcome this, we believe that prosperity is extremely unfairly distributed, we offer to those people who individually understand the desire to enjoy greater prosperity, the opportunity to immigrate in Europe and in our social system, we welcome and support it! – This is obviously your access. They must also say, however, that the whole is not self-financing, but that the wealth and the social system of those who have lived and lived in Europe so far and who have built up this prosperity with proportions based on their labor and their labor, and that this prosperity then decreases. And if I now say “Wealth” I do not mean the millionaires, but if I say prosperity, I mean the social system, the functioning social system, which costs money, then I mean the people involved in low income, the pensioners, the health system et cetera. It's the first one to hit it. Privileged people don't. And I do not think it is right to leave these people in the rain from a privileged position, so to speak, with their fears and concerns and nothing to do, because de facto the Federal Government is not doing anything. That's not all right! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We don't stand for that! Our views and concepts are well known, and we cannot do that in this way. Our task as a representative here in the Austrian Parliament is to work for the Austrian population, for the Austrian labour market, for the Austrian social system in the context of a changing global context. That's clear, and these are the challenges. However, the essential objective must not be overlooked: We are there as a priority for our compatriots, and these are the Austrians! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e18081	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Korun. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e18102	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) And very cordially and especially I would like to welcome our young spectators here at the gallery. Welcome to the High House! [[General condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Citizens rightly expect us elected politicians and politicians here in this Parliament to put together our minds, exchange arguments, develop concepts to address the challenges of this time, in the 21st century. In a more and more networked, increasingly globalized, ever-growing world, to master together. I'm telling you quite honestly: I went into politics because I believe that things can be changed and that things have to be changed, because the one who wants everything to remain the way it is does not want the world to remain. I am still convinced that we can change things together. But on some days – and today is such a day, I say quite honestly – I am not only a national councillor, but also as a citizen of the country somewhat frustrated about how discussions are going on here, how often it is not possible to work together across party borders, from this “we” and “your” – you are stupid, no, you are stupid; you make mistakes, no, you make mistakes – to get rid of it. I'm afraid we all together don't give a very great picture for the young people who are on the gallery. And I'd like to change that, with you, with you. There are many things that we criticize on government policy. Many of us, especially members of the opposition, feel that we are right to criticize this. Many of us say that there are reforms that have been in place for years and decades and are not really addressed, at least are not finalized – education reform is part of this, the administrative reform is part of this, the pension reform is part of that. Yes, we should exchange with each other in every form and in all courtesy, who has the best ideas and how we can implement these best ideas together. But just as this so-called urgent question is formulated, as in this economic policy, labour market policy, the so-called refugee crisis, which is generally a crisis of responsibility at European level, as all of this is being manned, it is unfortunately not possible to discuss things in detail and in depth together and really exchange us. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I have to say that I am also always frustrated by the language spoken here in this house – and I do not mean German, beware! because the accusation will probably come from one side right now – a language that makes little respect for the fellow colleagues. What happened before? - A traitor? Where the President has said he... – nesters, exactly! [[Call to the Greens: “Nestswet”!]] This is not exactly the language with which you can meet each other in a winning way. [[Abg. Hagen: But have you already understood?]] I always get feedback from young people, including students: I have turned on the TV, watched the debate in Parliament and how Members are dealing with each other. If we did that at school, we would get a very nice headwear from our teachers! – That’s true, and that’s true for all of us! [[Abg. Lugar: What exactly is a headwear?]] If this is already done on the subject, we should consider together: Our systems are robust enough to meet the challenges of 21. To deal with the century? For example, is not the federal system we currently have an obstacle, as it is currently looking at, for example, to meeting the challenge of some 80 000 to 90 000 refugees in Austria together? Is it not, rather, an obstacle to how it works at the moment or just does not work that federal government, countries, communities do not work together, but, unfortunately, often against each other? 180 000 Hungarian refugees, whom I spoke about two hours ago, received Austria in 1956/57 and gave them a roof over their heads, 180 000 refugees. We expect 80 000 to 95 000 this year. And isn't it the case that our systems are largely badly in need of reform, that we must be reformed so that we can overcome these challenges? [[Abg. Steinbichler: You can't mix herb and beet together!]] I don't think I always blame the others and always say to the others: You're totally wrong! All you're doing is stupid! – Unfortunately, this happens very often in the House. I wish not only as a politician... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hagen.]] . I know, Mr President, you always have to intercede because it is so difficult to listen to each other. [[Abg. Hagen: But you don't have to say that, because you are yelling all the time! That's where you have to take your own nose, Mrs. Colleague.]] I am sorry that there is now such a concrete example of what I mentioned earlier. I would like us to work together not only to signal confidence, but also to live that we live before, that we have confidence in the democratic structures of this country; they are very much worth it. We have the privilege of living in a country where democracy reigns and where the rule of law works. That has incrediblely many countries on this earth and billions of citizens do not. And I wish we'd come to an end together with this fear-making policy, so that we could paint things black and say: Everything is terrible, the citizens must be afraid! – We have been chosen to address and solve the problems! We have been chosen to remove the reasons for fear! We are chosen to make confidence possible! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Now, I am sure the criticism will come, because it has not discussed the subject at all, it has not made any concrete proposals for the reform of the labour market and so on. [[Abg. Hagen: Insight is the first step to improvement!]] [[Abg. Steinbichler: That's right! That's right!]] – Mr Steinbichler said that I was right about the Stronach team; I did not expect anything else, unfortunately. But I think from time to time it makes sense to look at ourselves to see what kind of picture we are giving. – They laugh, ladies and gentlemen. With “our” I really mean to us, the 183 Members sitting here. I'm not just saying you, you, you, I mean all of us together. And maybe we could take an example of the feedback from many young people who say: As you are discussing in Parliament, we do not want to look at that. – I think that should give us a lot of thought! In this sense, on a constructive common content debate in the next days, weeks and years. – Thank you many times for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e18260	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Alm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e18281	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Yes, the economy is not a parallel world. Sometimes it is pretended that economy is self-interest, a large exploitation system in which people march daily to serve and be thrown out of any corporations. – This is a disrespectful view of the economy, but it also occurs here in the house. For many people, economy is vocation, life content, and there is no wrong economy in the right life. “If the economy is good, we’re all good,” someone said. Some of you might now understand Michael Häupl's quote. This is an environmental statement by the mayor, which I cannot express here, otherwise I will get a call for order. But this statement by Christoph Leitl has had quite something true, and one can turn it around. The subject is of course: How do we bring more people into employment? – The solution cannot be that we create jobs where the net recipients sit, about transfer services, but we have to create jobs where the economy really happens: in the companies. Mr Muchich said that we should "reinvest" and mention the housing initiatives. And I would like to join with Mr Korun, who has addressed the issue of tonality here in the House. Michael Häupl I mentioned earlier. It was in the “standard” last week to read what an ÖVP politician held by another party friend and his housing law. [[The speaker keeps the copy of a newspaper article up to date.]] You probably can't decipher it to this distance. That's why I'm leaving out the worrying words. He says that the party friend’s housing law is “troubled. ” Yes, so in view of this way you must not be surprised... [[Abg. Heinzl: Was that not the Sobotka? That was the Sobotka, gal?]] – Yes, he said that! – In view of this way, you should not be surprised that these measures are not very serious. But I was with the companies that create jobs. Why do companies not create jobs? - Maybe because they don't need it. That would be a simple answer. Another answer would be: Because these companies may not yet be established, because there are restrictions in Austria, obstacles in the trade regulations, in bureaucracy, which at least slow down the creation of businesses and thus make it impossible for jobs to be created quickly. It could also be that private risk capital cannot flow quickly enough into these companies, because there is no incentivisation here either. However, it may also be that companies with a need for labour simply cannot afford these workers. So we need to facilitate these points, which are crucial to the fact that companies can afford this and actually bring more people into employment. And that's, of course, the personnel costs. And if you now exchange your so popular “Lump of Labor” theory from some sites for a “Lump of Cost of Labor” theory, then you have the opportunity to find positions in this cost block that you can reduce, of course, in the knock of the labour costs that is of course not stable and is not a fixed size. And I am not speaking of the wages, not gross wages, nor of net wages, but, of course, of the additional wage costs. In the case of additional wage costs, the accusation comes again that one cannot simply reduce them, because that would be a cave-out of the social state. That's right! They cannot be reduced to one, but you can look at what is in the pay side costs. And there are some performances in there that you can delete. There are services that can be reduced. There are services that can be reworked. I'll give you a few examples. Strings – we have said this more often – can be found in the chamber 2nd. This would bring an order of about €400 million. One can reduce accident insurance, one can reduce the working chamber housing. We move in a further order of approximately 600 million €. It is possible to begin to rework the housing aid contribution or the contributions to the family compensation fund. You get up to €2 billion, so a total of €3 billion, which would be three times as much as the reduction that is now in view. That was, if I remember correctly, €1.3 billion two weeks ago or a week ago, now the speech is € 1 billion. These are a few measures that could be taken to reduce the additional wage costs of 10 to 15 percent – not 10 to 15 percentage points, but 10 to 15 percent of the additional wage costs. That means there are still 85 to 90 percent left. You can't talk about a cave. There is no reasonable reason not to make life easier for companies. The worst thing that can happen is that companies do not put this money into new jobs, but make other investments or – keep it! – that even more profits are generated in these companies, which means that part of this profit will come back immediately as a gift and strengthen the equity structure of these companies. But, of course, a good part of these cost reductions really creates new jobs. What will not work is – I said this last time – to “encourage” jobs. It is not a good idea to collect money here and to return to this money through funding mechanisms very selective and arbitrary companies. We already have one of the highest rates of funding in Europe in Austria, and there is no reason to save this cycle. – This is one point when it comes to employment. A second big point I want to devote to the rest of the time is sharing economy. There are not only mistakes in the past and in the present, but there are also mistakes that affect the future if we do not set the course in good time and recognize opportunities. Sharing Economy is such a chance. The world is in the process of breaking, commercial exchange and sharing keeps moving into many areas of work and life. Here we are talking about know-how, here we are talking about cars, household appliances, business ideas, apartments and so on. We exchange and share, we generate added value for everyone involved. And of course, this global development does not stop in front of Austria either. The global investments in Sharing Economy Startups are increasing and now double the investment in startups in technology. It has now invested 12 billion US dollars in this area. This high level of investment, sales growth, the increasing willingness of consumers to participate illustrate the success and potential of the sharing economy. However, it does not only mean sharing these services and products, it is also a new business field that is being developed there. Fakely, Sharing Economy is sometimes confused with non-profit, but it is quite normal companies that make profits, pay taxes, create jobs that contribute to general prosperity and benefit from the digitization and networking of society, with philosophy: Use instead of possessing! This also has extreme advantages for consumers in terms of costs and quality. This is, of course, dangerous for some industries. This is what is commonly called a disruptive business model in the economy. And these disruptive business models are of course driving the traditional economy to the carts. These are attacks on these traditional business models. These are attacks on the guilds and the guilds. These are attacks on the Most Holy, on the Order of Commerce. And the current problems with Sharing Economy in Austria are particularly related to trade regulations, but also to security provisions, tax and tax issues. However, there are good examples in other countries, such as the Netherlands, where the responsibility for these tax and liability issues is transferred to platform operators through framework agreements with individual industries. There's something we should look away from. There is a chance that we should not let go, but take advantage of it.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e18326	Next speaker: Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e18349	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Dear Members, listeners on the gallery and in front of the televisions! I would not have believed that in the course of this urgent matter, namely that on the one hand the government is trying to speak the situation up, so to speak, that everything fits up, and on the other hand, one has the feeling that it has not been talked to citizens for a long time, it has not been talked to workers, to traders for a long time. That is why, I believe, it is very important that these issues be discussed here. I'm allowed to swipe out on the morning: Climate report and safety report, and the refugee debate has been held several times. I've already been on the 21st. At this point in May, it is important to start with the 500 local crisis spots, but there was still a smile about it and said: What are you talking about? That's not a problem we're all waving through! As long as the hat burns. And the media are also getting more and more on the move. I then quoted from Kurt Langbein’s book “Land Robbery”, which points out that there are still 50 million Africans on the road. The “Kurier” of yesterday: ‘The Africans are now also coming’; “The press” of yesterday: “Climate change makes 100 million people bitterly poor: By 2030, 100 million in Africa and South Asia will again fall below the absolute poverty line...” And if I say something new to the Green Report in the context of the agricultural report – tomorrow we will say something about it again – I would point out that everything we do with our Group policy, with our existential-distorting Group policy in these developing countries, is mostly done away with and does not realize what this ultimately means for our own country. ==References====External links== October: This is the certification of the fruits from the rainforest. And very interesting: The palm oil is already the top rider next to cocoa and coffee. Next Newspaper: “Climate is changing more rapidly than ever,” “Every hour three species of animals and plants die from...” – Yes, in the rainforest we are destroying just the king peat, the rhino and the Orang-Utan, but the palm oil is certified and sustainable. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, especially with the Greens: I do not know if you really have as good intentions as you explain – Mrs Korun, you have just, I think, given the substitute speech for Mr Van der Bellen, which has been heard by the Federal President's candidate – yet I have to say that here I feel a fatal failure of the green policy of recent years, health policy, environmental policy, climate policy. Why wasn't that shown? How could that happen? Why are our farmers accused of being animal torments? Why are people always drugged and not looked at what one really does with this value and environmental change policy these days? I would ask for cooperation to show this and really pay particular attention to regional cycles, including vegetables. I will have a typical vegetable product from the region tomorrow. Mr Wöginger, surprisingly employee representatives – I think he is not in the hall right now – have tried too nicely this “sensational” 5-billion tax package. This is a very "doubt" situation: At €5.5 billion re-indebtedness to talk about a success, this is already a bit of an increase of beautiful speeches! - on- Instead of talking about it, and this would also be good for Mr Muchitsch, that in recent years the workers have had 16 percent loss of purchasing power, that workers simply do not come along with the workers – we are always talking about reducing working time, we are also talking about the way to work! – are getting longer and longer on the road, standing in traffic jams for more and more time, losing more and more time with the family, losing more and more of their leisure time. I think we need to see this much more compact, and then perhaps we will once again get a situation where workers and entrepreneurs together have a good basic attitude and are willing to invest again, ready to bring this country back to Austria – I will come to a study later. I think that would be very important. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Unfortunately, due to the time coming to an end, I would like to point out the unfulfilled election promises: Where are the structural reforms in the field of education, administration, social security, chambers, red tape? No, people were discouraged. Businesses have been put down as criminals, as tax evaders. – That’s a mood we don’t need at all. We need courageous entrepreneurs who are ready. Frank Stronach has already been quoted today – I am delighted that Mr Alm and Mrs Lichtenecker have done so – and that is why I would like to do it again: If the economy's going well, everyone's fine. I happen to have included today’s edition of the “Kurier”, and there is also an idea by Frank Stronach, who is often described as such ridiculous here, namely the price for the most innovative young entrepreneur, who is worth €100 000, which is presented today with the company Overtec as a success company. The best people, the best ideas, the best minds need to be promoted, and that is why I appeal to the government to the clear appeal that once again one creates a positive mood that you are driving clear strategies and finally – and this has been addressed, Mrs. Korun, as I am fully with you – I see with courage the positive. The best shit is the Opti is missing! When I read the “Presses ” issue of 6. Looking at November, one writes on the front page, referring to a McKinsey study: ‘Austria’ means a 30-billion chance. - We have to take these! Without the political reforms that are possible, there are very useful proposals that are implemented. And here, as was said at the last labour market summit in Linz, in the ORF and in the “Kronen Zeitung”, we need an appreciation of the working population. Because the colleague It's all right here. There is this measure of hail insurance “Stop the land consumption”. I'm not necessarily for that. It is good, although companies are being set up, but at last we have to evaluate this by jobs! If there are purely structural halls built with computer facilities, or where jobs are created for our domestic population, is purchasing power created? We should not discuss the financial compensation that is necessary, but that is first the medicine, the treatment of a misguided economic policy. That is why, ladies and gentlemen: Let's really do it together! The situation is serious, but very hopeful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e18441	The next item is the speech by Mr Schopf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e18465	Mr President. My dear! Ladies and gentlemen! The urgent question was as follows: If you read this request exactly, you will notice that, unfortunately, a round-up has been carried out here by the Stronach team, with a choice of words and with a language that is very worrying. [[Abg. Lugar: What? What's in it?]] However, I would like to try to deal with the subject areas that have also been quoted in this question. [[Abg. Lugar: What is the point of our inquiry? Don't say anything you don't...!]] These are the subject of social security and also the subject of labour market. [[Abg. Lugar: Well, what do you think?]] On this occasion, I would like to thank Mr Bundeskanzler, but also the Federal Government as a whole, and all of my colleagues, who have already dealt with these issues in an objective way and will continue to deal with them in the future. A key point is social security. The Stronach team believes that a reform stop has occurred in the area of social security. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth looks completely different. All people – and this is unique not only in Europe but unique in the world – who have their proper residence in the Republic of Austria are socially insured. We Social Democrats are proud that if someone lives here, he is also socially ill. This is, as has been said, unique across Europe. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Lugar: Where is the reform?]] The Austrian system of public, social and solidarity health insurance is therefore unbeatable, ladies and gentlemen. All insured persons, without any risk readout, have the same claim from the first day on to all medically necessary medical services, cures, medications, regardless of price. A few days ago, Austrian broadcasting even reported that the administrative burden in the field of social and health insurance is not even 3 percent. [[Abg. Matznetter: 2,7!]] It's 2.7 percent, right. [[Abg. Loacker: You can say that so often, it's not true!]] This means that over 97 percent of the contributions paid ultimately benefit the insured. And, ladies and gentlemen, this is a result of constant internal reforms. This is a result of constant internal developments. In administrative costs, private insurance companies can learn from social health insurance, not vice versa, ladies and gentlemen from the Stronach team. The service catalogue of the health insurance fund is constantly being improved. We have a recent example: Recently, we have decided by a majority that in our Republic there are free gears. After all, 30 000 children and young people benefit from this decision per year. 80 million € are used for this purpose. For the children and young people concerned, but above all for their families, this is a very, very important point, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Steinbichler: What about Stage 3? We don't pay them!]] The Stronach team thinks in this request – and this is interesting – that is a very concrete proposal – that you may sell the vehicles and the buildings of health insurance – as an opportunity to save. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Lugar! [[Abg. Lugar: What are you talking about?]] Please explain to us exactly how a buildingless health insurance institution in Austria works! [[Abg. Lugar:... the wrong request! Show me what you've got! That's not our request!]] They want to sell the health insurance buildings. They want to sell dental ambulatorys or whatever. This is your proposal to reform Austrian health insurance. [[Abg. Lugar: Do you have the house order of the...? Or what have you got?]] Ladies and gentlemen, to your information and, above all, to inform you, Mr Lugar: A few days ago, an important discussion took place between the government and the social partners, where efforts were made to combat unemployment. The additional wage costs have already been addressed today. ==References====External links== In October it was agreed, among other things, that the additional wage costs will be reduced by approximately € 1 billion. Furthermore, one has agreed on a housing package – not insignificant! – on a bonus-malus system to support older colleagues in the labour market, on more financial resources for active labour market policies, an apprenticeship programme, a labour law package – that is, many points that are very, very important, especially when it comes to fighting unemployment. For the Stronach team, this is, of course, “absurd”, “unscrupulous” in this request, in which this is to be read. Impossible! [[Abg. Lugar: What are you doing? The “Communist manifesto”, or what do you have?]] By the way: We are clear – and here we agree – unemployment is a huge problem. And we must work together with the social partners, the Federal Government, but above all the colleagues in the High House, to implement those good proposals that have not only been made at this summit, but which are actually presented on a daily basis. An important area is private consumption. It was quite crucial that a very great collective contract was concluded in the field of the metal industry a few days ago – one must say, under the leadership of Rainer Wimmer; Rainer, most congratulation! – has been achieved at 1.5 percent. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] That was very, very important. However, this applies not only to this wage round in the metal industry, but also to wage tax reform in a few days. We know that Austria's employees, pensioners and pensioners from 1st century onwards. January will have about 2.5 to 2.7 percent net more in the bag. This is very important and crucial for private consumption and therefore for the entire economic situation in the Republic. Ladies and gentlemen! It is therefore not all right for some to make themselves up here and talk bad, bad talk, bad talk. I think it is important – and some speakers have said so too – to say openly what great steps have been taken in this republic. And this tax reform, known as 1st. That is a point which is becoming quite, very important, coming into force in January. I would like to thank at this point those who were involved in it – particularly the trade unions, the Chamber of Workers, of course, together with the Federal Government – that this tax reform is being implemented, which is now being implemented on 1 January. January 2016 will ultimately enter into force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e18655	The next item is the speech by Mr Principality. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e18676	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Economic and economic development In terms of employment, this is always a matter of the mood – or the mood that we ourselves convey. The threat scenarios, which are sometimes played out by the Stronach team today, do not create a single job. That is why I prefer to stick to facts and facts. Although these are challenging, unlike the polishers, we are in the process of identifying these challenges in the substance, but also acting on them. An example of this is the package of measures presented by the Federal Government in the last few days. Valuable investment not only causes the creation of new jobs, but also ensures employment in Austria. I would like to deal specifically with the no less challenging field of the rural economy, i.e. agriculture. The economic factor of agriculture is a more significant one, and we will certainly highlight it in detail tomorrow in the debate on the Green Report of last year. This Green Report confirms to agriculture a production value of around €8.54 billion last year. And if you take the economic sectors in the upstream and downstream area, then this is about revenues of around 38 billion euros. This makes it clear that agriculture is an essential economic and employment factor in rural areas. After all, this is about more than 500 000 jobs in Austria. I believe that both the new budget, which we will be discussing intensively in the next two weeks, and the measures and resources of the common agricultural policy, will ensure a key framework for the future of agricultural food and food production. Our local food is of the best quality and ensures valuable jobs on the way to the consumer. We should all be aware of this. By public means, we ensure a certain amount of compensation to farmers for the very low producer prices, and these low producer prices – or, in other words, these public funds – are to a certain extent consumer promotion and support. However, the most important thing for maintaining agricultural jobs is demand itself. More domestic demand secures jobs and creates new jobs. However, it is not only about jobs in agriculture, it is also about jobs in trade, tourism, it is about jobs in the field of the production of agricultural machinery, the seed industry and the construction industry. The rural families invest every euro they earn again in the regional economy. And the fact that this regional economy or this cycle of the regional economy works and is intact is an essential factor in ensuring that rural areas are stable and functioning in the future. This cycle must be preserved, in the form that we support our farmers by buying their products. The situation, without acting, does not create a single job here in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e18722	Next speaker: Deputy Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e18743	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Of course, we are in a situation of crisis – I do not think anyone who disputes it lives in reality. Mrs Steßl, I do not want to get too close to you, but if I consider the subject complex and then look at the government bank, I must say that I do not know exactly what your area of activity is in the past. The Federal Chancellor's Office as Secretary of State, but if this is the German Government's answer to the crisis situation that we clearly have – economic crisis, unemployment, refugee crisis – then the confidence of the citizens in Austria will not necessarily rise rapidly. Mrs Korun, you said you would like to work together, and you should try to present the realities perhaps a little nicer somewhere. I would now like to do the following: I would like to present to you once again the drama of the figures, namely the situation we are currently in in Austria, especially in the unemployment field. And perhaps to return to the government again briefly: It means that the quality of a leadership team is always recognized in crisis situations – and there my trust is already going to end. The drama of the numbers: At the end of October 2015, there are 410 800 unemployed in Austria, of which 292,000 are nationals – a plus of 2.5 percent – and 118 000 foreigners – which is a plus of 14.1 percent. I refer only to numbers, but as far as their analysis is concerned, we should just take note of the truth. AMS Executive Board Head predicts 500 000 unemployed in January itself. Two years ago we made this forecast. At that time we were laughed, and they said that this would never happen. In the meantime, the Board of Directors has defined it in this way. Training participants – including interesting numbers –: Nationals: 47 000 in training; Foreigners: 24 000 in training. And now it's going to be interesting: The number of foreigners has decreased by 17.4 percent, by almost 10,000, and the number of foreigners has increased by almost 3,000 or 12 percent. They're already wondering: Is now investing in the training of Austrians or in the training of foreigners? And what purpose is there behind that? For me, it is not understandable to go back to the domestic training system. Once again, very briefly at the cost: Approximately €19 000 costs a unemployed person. A simple bill: With a nearly half million, we are currently at cost of just under €9 billion and are approaching the 10 billion limit. That means, that's what anyone has to pay for. Youth: We have 73 000 young people under the age of 25 who are unemployed in Austria. You just have to take note of these numbers before you live in a dream world. And older unemployed over 50 are already nearly 100,000 in Austria. Then you have to tell these people the ideas you have as to immigration, how this should work for them. Long-term unemployed: There is the most dramatic trend, a 193 percent increase in long-term unemployed people who are unemployed for more than a year. – These are pure numbers, data and facts that can be viewed and downloaded anywhere at the official offices. Also an important number: A maximum of 200 000 of the 450 000 unemployed have compulsory schooling. That is to say, in this area of not well-trained people, we already have the most massive problem. But what is also interesting: Nearly 26,000 academics are already unemployed, and there are markedly increasing figures here each month. On another subject, I can tell you a few figures from a current response to the question, and I am always surprised that this is not being taken up because, in connection with the immigrants, there is always talk about what is going on. I have a very up-to-date answer from Minister Hundstorfer about the situation in Tyrol: In Tyrol, we had around 550 unemployed. asylum seekers, of which exactly one percent – one percent! – a skilled worker training, and 0.8 percent have an academic degree according to their own statement. – These are real figures from 2015 in Austria as regards the asylum sector. On the topic of unemployment in the sector: I have to wonder about some numbers: Tourism: 62,000 people unemployed, trade: almost 60 000, as well as in health and social matters, are almost 11 000 people in unemployment. These are all the numbers that you have to take note of once, in order to be able to grasp and analyze the problem at all and then find solutions. 19 000 asylum seekers are reported as unemployed in Austria. We have around 60 000 asylum seekers in total. The rest of 35 000 asylum seekers are in minimum security. Now you can calculate the employment rate in the asylum status in Austria yourself. In fact, it is not present. – I could continue with the remarks now. It's very important: The government has simply failed to do very, very many things in my opinion, and the economy suffers. These include the Russian sanctions, the Energy Efficiency Act, the Food Information Regulation, smoking ban, sparkling wine tax, register registers and, and, and. These are all anti-economic measures. Without economy, the work situation, the workplace situation in Austria will not change permanently. Once again to the conclusion quite clearly: What do we call for liberals, and that for months, for years? – We demand a noticeable wage-side reduction and not a placebo that you always want to drive ahead of the entrepreneurs. Entrepreneurs can expect, believe me! This placebos doesn't take you away, obviously, and they won't do anything either. Furthermore, we call for a reduction in the tax burden for entrepreneurs, a reform of education – presented to us by Mrs Heinisch-Hosek next week – and I am very excited about it – to be a real educational reform to train skilled workers in Austria. She's been missing for years and decades. What we also demand – the figures clearly suggest – is a sectoral closure of the labour market in Austria. This would be very possible by law. Minister Hundstorfer always contests this, but in reality he knows it's possible. It would simply be important for the political will to do so. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] „Blum-Bonus Neu“, the best bidder principle – we have heard it – has in turn been postponed. That is, you do not even bring on the smallest pragmatic measures. That's tossed, slowed down, and nothing happened. We demand – quite clearly – a discharge of local businesses through debureaucratisation and reduction of taxes. That is to say, what you always promise, we are always in a different position here in Parliament. Every month comes again a new EU directive, an EU standard, and the red tape for entrepreneurs increases and increases. Now I would like to mention a final sentence, which seems appropriate for Austria: We have the occupational incapacity pension in Austria. I would really recommend that the government use this occupational disability pension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e18837	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Honey. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e18859	Ladies and gentlemen! The Stronach team discussed a little bit today, from the liberalisation of the possession of arms to the problem of kissing in labour law. [[Abg. Lugar: Loading opening times...!]] – No, but these two terms were also there – quite certainly. I think that's a very interesting, broad spectrum. I can't join it immediately. I'm trying to stick to the headlines, and I'd even like you – I've done it! – agree to one point: I am also not satisfied with the labour market, employment and economic policies of this government. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We largely agree that there is too little progress. We also largely agree that the labour market summit unfortunately did not bring about a big throw. As an example, I would just like to mention the following: This bonus-malus system will not significantly improve the employment situation – under quotations – of older people in the labour market. The reduction in additional labour costs will not necessarily result in more jobs. It is not at all said what happens to this savings on the part of the companies. Since these are not large amounts in operation, due to the structure it is more likely that savings will be used, for example, for debt repayments and not for new jobs. In other words, it is completely unclear what is being done with this one billion in concrete terms and what is happening in companies. That is why the labour market summit was unfortunately not a big throw. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of all of this, I am all the more pleased – because opposition work is not always nice – that once a novel was proposed by this government, a government template was presented that would have brought something good. What am I talking about? – It is the novel to the contract law. What's that about? – Public procurement is currently mainly conducted in accordance with the lowest bidder principle. What exactly does that do? – As an example, the construction is always mentioned: Construction companies receive supplements and employ in chain subcontractors, subcontractors, subcontractors who do not belong to the regional economy and pay low-cost wages. Another area is services and social services. Here, the staff costs are flattened by the tender. This means that providers – usually social associations – with older employees are at first chanceless. Four employees over 45 cost a project more than four employees with 25. In other words, “our” right to award is less favourable to companies, companies, associations with older workers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it can't be: Our legislation has a negative impact on the labour market and the regional economy! Then there was this government template in June, which goes in the right direction. She's not perfect, but she's heading in the right direction. It is now true that we should have decided on it in the National Council, with the countries having a right of consent. Only then would it be effective. It was tough negotiations, as I heard, but in fact one could accept: Away from this cheapest bidder principle to strengthen the regional economy, towards better employment – that would have to be in the interest of the countries. [[Abg. Peter Worm: You know why...!]] But two days before the adoption of the decision, the economic resort of the Tyrolean state government is vetoing. I also know why. Finally, one would have had something to bring us on, but the economic resort of the Tyrolean state government says: No, that's too much work for us. The implementation of the best bidder principle, the corresponding tenders, is too complicated. Even though Mr Lopatka, who is not present now, first applied: Haven't you read the arguments? - I read it. Two of them are quite clear and the third condition for an agreement is nothing but the elimination of the best bidder principle. – The Tyrolean state government or the economic sector wants to continue to have freedom of choice and choose between the best bidder or the cheapest bidder principle. This does not mean, however, that the low-cost bidder principle will continue to apply, as the changeover is complicated in the beginning and small communities will be overwhelmed – no question. This is because this innovation would be an important step for our labour market, for regional employment. Ladies and gentlemen! It can't be! It cannot be the resistance of some conservative officials to prevent this good novel. It can't be. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] I appeal to all Members who have influence in Tyrol: See that this is still happening on rail – this first part, which is essentially effective for construction – and that then the second novel can also enter into force, which affects social services, public transport and also food procurement – which was an important point for the ÖVP. Please, let's get this over with. I'm appealing to you. This is important for the labour market, important for strengthening the regional economy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e18932	Next, Mr Magistrate. Loacker's word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e18953	Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Estimated visitors to the gallery! Yes, the Stronach team has made a urgent request, and Mrs Steßl, the Secretary of State, has carried out the “tax reform” that you always have to write under quotation marks, is so excellent that the problems begin to be solved more or less. What is then gladly hidden is the accompanying music for this tax reform. There is, on the one hand, an out-of-tour increase in the maximum contribution base. What to do You with that? – You increase the additional wage costs that you want to reduce again in a labour market summit. Whatever happens is a bonus malus system, which also increases labour costs and thus represents an increase in additional labour costs. It has already been described what else you have in accompanying music: Basic acquisition tax, registers, sales tax increase, bank tax to give the companies a monthly contribution basis, which they have so far submitted a year – and so the bureaucracy is simply blown up again. In reality, it is not about the discharge of taxpayers, but about you putting money back into the cash registers with this tax reform, where your people sit on the levers of power. What does a higher ceiling mean? – Yes, there is again more money in the red money store workers’ chamber, because of course also the working chamber housing grows. Higher ceiling also means that more money flows back into the pension insurance institution. Then the “Happy Rudi” dog tore is happy and can go back and say: The grant is not as high as we feared. The Minister of Finance is also pleased because he doesn't have to transfer so much money to the dog's pensioner for his pension insurance. – You’re always looking at your own salad to a certain extent and that you don’t have to act. Mr Wurm said he would recommend to the government that she go to occupational incapacity pension. - No! Start hacking! The Labour Market Summit also mentioned the Secretary of State: There's now a super wage-additional reduction. Mr Wöginger said: The ISG contribution is reduced by 0.1 percent from 0.45 percent to 0.35 percent, and you want to reduce the service provider's contribution to the family compensation fund. Why don't you take care of this? FLAF is over-indebted, and you have presented in the government programme a multi-year debt plan that you can't meet today, and now you want to cut down the contributions that are coming in. That's what I'm asking myself: What does not happen afterwards, which is being paid out of FLAF today? Or what does someone else pay, and with whom have you already agreed that this will pay the countries or whoever? Nothing you've reached! At your pay-side reduction, you passed by again where you could have done something loose. The accident insurance contribution could be massively reduced if not every division existed twice in AUVA, namely once in red and once in black. One could lower the chamber contributions, even that has already been carried out. But there are of course the black and red chamber officials ahead, since you already have to see that your own sheep remain in the dry. The contribution to housing development could have been removed at all. But you can only look at what the national conference in its last meeting gave you the best: It is not possible to make the contributions to housing, because the money is missing elsewhere in the budget. – The heads of state have thus admitted that they are committing the money. And instead of saying: If you misuse the money, I'll delete it, let the citizens pay more net of gross and reduce employers' additional wage costs!, let the money continue to flow. It is only the Secretary of State who now has to hold the head of an entire government, which is not man enough to give the heads of state to the heads of state and say: I won't let you put me on your head! Again, directly to the urgent inquiry: So a certificate of competence from the Stronach team is not that. If you say that the labour market summit has produced the ridiculous result that 60 000 jobs are coming, I must say: I do not find 60 000 jobs ridiculous. I think it is ridiculous that you believe that the outcome of the labour market summit should be 60 000 jobs. Well, that's one thing I've got to think about. Furthermore, in the request that the social security funds have declared €2.5 billion as profit-making, which is mainly bound by expensive administrative buildings. So I don't know how you prove the profit and then bind in administrative buildings as you anticipate this business. €2.5 billion of deposits are available, which has been taken out of the bag by the insured person. There's something you could do. There would be a lot of air for a pay-side reduction, but you would have to take advantage of the opportunities, and you would have to keep your red and black party friends a little bit to your body.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e19029	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e19051	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! The herb and beet mix of the Stronach team may be useful in a cooking recipe for vegan cuisine. It is not very useful to make this a urgent request, but it allows us at least one general debate on a number of points. Let's start with a few things right now – I can't go into all the things that contradict each other here; They have noticed the contradictions themselves in the speech –: They tell us here that refugees are not caught in Austria, but only in Germany. Then you say, but you know that the majority of these refugees only have a compulsory school degree – by the non-captured, that is, by those whose personnel are not covered, but they are only swept through. Then you know who has what degree? This is an example I mention here to clarify the things with which you also frighten people. Another example is the Voest. The Voest invested in iron sponge production in Corpus Christi – in the USA, Texas. This requires two things: One is a cheap source of energy that comes from fracking natural gas. The second, much more important, is: The village is located directly on a high sea harbor. Unfortunately, Mr. Klubobmann Lugar: When the First Republic was founded, we had already de facto no longer a high sea port, because Trieste has not been in Austria since 1918. We will hardly be able to send out the military to get a high seas port. Therefore, the investment will not take place domestically. Perhaps you could at least take note of these banalities. I've already given up the rest because you'll repeat things that have long been clarified. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let's get to the mixes. First of all, there is the claim that SMEs are ahead of the agenda. Do you really know how much we have grown in recent years? – Only the number of one-person companies rose from 238 320 in 2010 to 278 411. They don't die out, they're gonna die more! Luckily, you're not a biologist, because you'd warn us about animal species that they're going to die now. That's not the case. The problem is, we must constantly work on the reform in order to create the appropriate framework conditions, and that is what we are doing. The reduction in additional labour costs is a first correct measure in the area of taxation of the labour factor. But the big step is the one on the 1st. January 2016: € 5.1 billion, which remain net of the wage mark below the line and with the income tax declaration and hence with the self-employed. There is a relief of the factor work. If you want more, I'll invite you. Let us discuss here that we do not use the basic wage sum to the extent necessary for financing. With me and with us, you can immediately talk about the use of those parts of the value added that do not yet contribute and the relief of the labour factor. The Italians have now introduced a very sensible tax on local financing 15 years ago, called IRAP. There they not only collect the wage sum, but also the profits, the rents, the license payments, all that does not contribute to it, with the effect that the percentage they collect on the wage sum is much, much less. For example, the first conversions for Austria for such a conversion of the tax result in a reduction of from 4.5 percent of the total wage to 3 percent for the service provider's contribution. In the amount of 1.5 percent of the total wage, a relief would take place because much of the added value in our country does not contribute to the financing of the FLAF; although all others – farmers, self-employed – also consume the same benefits: Freeway for children, schoolbooks, childcare allowance. The wage sum alone is a wrong basis. This was correct when the total wage in 1978 was still 80 percent or 90 percent. That didn't matter. But today we approach from above the 50 percent, it is below 60 percent, that is, the base is getting less and less. Therefore, the weighting is wrong, and I invite you: Let's talk about it! On other points: The trade system is constantly being reformed. We do this with care. We're thinking about what's going on, but you have to be clear on one point: It is not guaranteed that we can keep every profession we say that anyone can do, keep it permanently, or open it to other professions. I am now consciously bringing an example of where we really feel it, one that a SPÖ government has decided in this House, namely in the 1970s: Any supermarket may also be carnivores. You can buy sausage, open meat, everything in the supermarket. That's what happened. Have you ever looked at how many meat ranches we still have and what that means for regional cuisine, which means for careful preparation? The WHO study, which says how dangerous the eating of meat is, is also a result of the almost purely industrial production of these things. That is, there are collateral damage if you want to do so, and therefore you have to take care and take care to consider whether you can maintain certain qualitative professions as they are, if you release them completely, but otherwise: We have found a good solution for the photographers, as in many other areas, we do. This government is not doing badly in the matter of economic policy, but you can admit that as an opposition! Austria was the poverty shrew on this continent, we were the last of them 30 years ago. Then we pass everyone because we have good companies. In the export we broke one record after another. Do you believe that on the world market it plays a role in how the state is and whether the framework conditions are broken? Then these companies could never export. There counts quality times price, point. And there our companies win because the location is good because the businesses are good because the employees are good! Stop coming every time with any story of how bad it is. You can make constructive proposals. There's no one there at all, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e19131	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Nachbaur. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e19152	Mr President. Dear representatives on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! Dear taxpayers! The urgent question concerns the question: Where is the Federal Chancellor, and what does he do? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wenninger.]] – A short search shows: Today he's in Malta. Yesterday he was at the trade union day of private workers, and what did he do there? – Once again he moved around in the good old class fight moth box and see that out came the demand for a new value added tax, also known as machine tax. [[Abg. Rossmann: Socialist!]] [[Abg. Matznetter: If the depreciation wasn't there...!]] So in times of record unemployment, our Federal Chancellor wants to punish entrepreneurs who invest in modern technologies. [[Abg. Matznetter: No, they were relieved!]] Do you seriously believe, dear comrades, that you can slow down technical progress with a new taxation? Faith Are you all serious about the fact that there is only one job in this country to stop or slow down technical progress? Faith Do you really think it is beneficial for the Austrian economic location to punish investment tax? – Especially due to record unemployment needs Austria is no more urgent than entrepreneurs who are willing to invest in our country and create jobs! If you look at the data of Statistics Austria, you can see the following: The net investment rate has fallen by 60 percent over the last 15 years. This is not a momentary economic weakness, but a long and clear sign that the Austrian economic location has lost its attractiveness, especially since 2007, that is, since the regent of Mr. Faymann. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter]] Direct investment has also fallen significantly since then. Even the artificial low interest rate policy is unable to generate investments because, because of this super-bureaucratic Basel III regularity, banks are not allowed to lend loans, especially young companies. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Matznetter and Mr Lugar.]] So we have a lot of unemployed, high taxes, high debt, little investment, but a bleak bureaucracy. So what do you want to do? Mr Katzian, for example, believes that working time should be reduced, that the minimum wage should be increased, and that it should also be paid to the minimum insured persons for a holiday rather than to see that people are put into employment. [[New calls from Mr Matznetter and Mr Lugar.]] Mr Matznetter, you are now thinking – you have just said this in your speech before me – about a new tax according to Italian model, because Italy is so good in economic terms, are you? [[Abg. Matznetter:... Reduce!]] [[Abg. Arbitrators:... Costs of pay!]] No, ladies and gentlemen, the problem in this country is that many in the Socialist Group actually believe in most companies flying fried pigeons around. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Further calls from Mr Lugar and Mr Matznetter.]] No, ladies and gentlemen, in the companies, no fried pigeons fly around, people work hard, many of them day and night, which is a bit different than in the protected area, and yet many SMEs have stood the water up to the neck, due to the high tax burden, due to the high labour costs and due to the bureaucracy. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Heinzl and Mr Lugar.]] I am particularly cynical in this context, by the way, the statement made yesterday by ÖGB President Foglar. Foglar recommends more investment from the economy. Many companies in Austria are doing well, he says, in addition to being cheap money available, there is simply no optimism in this country. Yes, perhaps there is a lack of optimism, that the socialists one day wake up and realize that the cow that you want to milk must not be killed before, that it needs less taxes instead of more, that it needs less bureaucracy instead of more, that it needs performance justice and that you can not only think of redistributing, because first of all you have to create something. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Pirklhuber: redistribution, yes!]] Would you invest in a country where investments are punished, where performance is punished, where a meter-long tax law, if one builds up these codes all one after the other, can be interpreted at any time to your disfavors where the Federal Chancellor is thinking about an investment penalty tax? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lugar]] [[Abg. Rossmann: Do you know who was the first to think about it? That was Engelbert Dolphin 1933! ... learn a little story!]] Instead of practicing in the class struggle, the SPÖ in this government should be more involved in reducing additional wage costs, as we have now achieved, in rewarding instead of punishing investments in our country, and finally reducing a little of this overwhelming bureaucracy. At this point I would like to thank all the entrepreneurs who are still investing in this country who believe in this country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A final word on the subject of refugees and illegal immigration, because in today's emergency one can actually accommodate everything: I support Mrs. Johanna Mikl-Leiter in her constructive work. The flow of refugees must be quickly dampened, we must not overburden the citizens and the social system. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinzl]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e19340	Next item is the report by Mr Themessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e19361	Mr President. Ladies on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Nachbaur, you already know that in the meantime you are a member of a government party, and therefore indirectly co-responsible for those snipers you left here?- Oh, my God! [[Rejoicing and applause at FPÖ and Team Stronach]] You have to be clear about that! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] Mrs Jank said it needed confidence. You know, if this federal government is in office only yesterday, then one could discuss with me that there is a advance of confidence, but we have had a red and black federal government for almost nine years – as long as I am now in this House – and in the last nine years you have nothing to show about solutions. Therefore, you should not be surprised if the opposition parties no longer have confidence in your promises and not the population at all. They also remember the results of the last elections. Ladies and gentlemen, I am also telling you why there is no longer any confidence: because everything you have been addressing and dealing with in recent years has not led to what you have promised the people. Ms Steßl, Secretary of State, addressed the 2009 tax reform. Tax reform 2009 has turned out to be an absolute tax package. There was nothing left to see from tax reform, i.e. companies were taxed, the individual employee and the worker remained nothing at all. - That's the first one. In the meantime, we no longer have a functioning energy market, monopolistic conditions, says e-control for years. You're not doing anything! Then the current refugee crisis continues. Every medium-sized airport in the world manages not only to control passports every day for thousands of people, but also to send them individually through a personal scanner. We can't do this on the border, with the deployment of 1,500 soldiers, with over 200 police officers. That is, we are living in an uncertain country in the meantime, and this is true of the population. It goes further with the trade order. Mrs State Secretary, because of the accusation that the trade regulation is not being revised, you have mentioned that four novels have been decided by this government in recent years. I'll tell you what: The first novel was that a total of 14 decentralized commercial registers were merged into a federal business register. That's all right, that's what we've carried. The other three novels you have addressed were minor adjustments so that they will be EU-compliant. One of them was, for example, the famous smoke catcher rule, where one has not only the bound trade anymore, but also the free trade in the meantime, with the result that the consumer no longer knows himself at all. So much to the trade order you claim has done so much because of four novels. - You didn't do anything. Now on tax reform, with 1. In January 2016, the following shall enter into force: She's all right. We liberals have been demanding that the entrance tax rate be finally reduced for years. So that's the positive. But what you put on the table about counter-financing measures will then be the population and will also particularly notice the traders. The variety of new loads – almost everyone – have shown you the truth and almost complete truth of Mr. Schellhorn and also Mr. Wurm, which, interestingly, is precisely what we are burdened with, on the farms that cannot emigrate, which cannot even move the company abroad, especially tourism, gastronomy, which are mostly family businesses, which are extremely burdened. Of the famous thousands that Mr Wöginger has referred to again today, there will not be much left. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: We didn't see that either!]] By the way, I remember the thousands in which the name Ederer comes to my mind. We have also been promised the Ederer-Tusher in the course of the EU accession, on which we... [[Abg. Wöginger: But these were Schilling!]] – Yes, but it was a thousand and we are still waiting for it today. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: We didn't see that either!]] Mr Wöginger, what you do not say is that, in the course of this tax reform of normal citizens in the future, personal insurance – i.e. premiums for accident insurance, health insurance, life insurance – can no longer be taxed. [[President Head gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e19437	Ladies and gentlemen, please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e19452	The final sentence: All personal insurance contracts, starting from 1. In January 2016, tax deductions are no longer available. I'm correct, it's only going into force with 1. January 2016. [[Abg. Wöginger: They were the ones before!]] That is, of the €1,000 you promise the population, you have already taken away €500. Congratulations!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e19507	The next item is the speech by Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e19529	Mr President. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Of course, this urgent request has its right. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we have a wrong position in Austria: Those who hold their hands are getting more and more, those who do not work are getting more and more, and those people who work hard and pay taxes are getting less and less. How long can that go? The Secretary of State said first – I listened very carefully, Mrs State, you said that –: This federal government has led Austria very well through the economic crisis. I say, dear. Ladies and gentlemen: The many hard-working small and medium-sized enterprises, the many hard-working workers, have led Austria through this economic crisis! That's it. And as a thank you for this, the companies are also subject to burdens, regulations, allergen regulations, registers, with..., with burdens. [[Call the ÖVP: What else?]] Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is urgently necessary that there is an administrative reform, because it cannot be that the rules are getting more and more and the people who work are getting less for it. It doesn't make any sense. Today, unemployment has been mentioned more often than not. I think we have a very big problem. Unemployment is already enormously high and now asylum seekers are still to be fed into the labour market. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is a development I strongly reject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e19560	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e19582	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In one of my colleagues, Mr Doppler, I would like to say: Inequality is increasing dramatically: Those people who work in the regions, in small and medium-sized enterprises, in agriculture, in the farms who are diligent and pay their taxes, are on the one hand, and on the other hand, more and more large players are moving beyond policy and tax system their profits globally or transnationally. Ladies and gentlemen! That's the problem with this urgent request. It would have been interesting – at the address of the Stronach team – if you had put your analysis in a larger context. Whoever still believes that we are doing economic and labour market policies here in Austria alone, is somehow not quite up to date, you just have to hold it. Firstly, we have a European internal market, and secondly, we have huge global challenges. And there is a point for me that I would like to address very centrally: the Transatlantic Investment and Free Trade Agreement. This is the danger that threatens, for many workers and for many small and medium-sized enterprises who are now paying their taxes, which are now making their innovation. [[Abg. Stroll: There's the van der Bellen different opinion, gal?]] – That's what I'm trying to do, Mr. Strolz! The question is indeed, in which sectors the dangers are threatening. And the danger is very likely! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] When we look at the objectives pursued by the groups in these negotiations, and regulatory cooperation, this means: Invader of the corporations. This regulatory cooperation is intended to enable companies to have direct access to legal decisions. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a challenge where, as a parliamentarian, we must not be allowed to show a flag. We must face this challenge. And in one I agree with you on the subject of the urgent matter, namely the phenomenon of the crisis. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, I share that. And with an Italian philosopher and politician, with Antonio Gramsci, I would describe this situation, in which we stand as a politician, as a human being and as a society, as follows: The old man dies, but the new one cannot be born yet. That is, ladies and gentlemen, because many things are looking at the solutions: growing nationalism and populism – these are the strategies of the 19th century. ==References== The century is not suitable – simple solutions in global conflict situations – unfortunately not possible – the question of global redistribution and justice – this is also a question that is largely related to international responsibility and European policy – and finally we talk a lot about regional economy, a lot of procurement, but we must finally implement it. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this could be an important part: ecologizing and regionalising public procurement. This would be an important step to strengthen jobs in the regions and to actually implement sustainability. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e19630	Now comes Mr. Klubobmann Ing. Lugar speaking. Rest of the time of your club: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e19652	Mr President. High house! We've been accused of talking bad about the country. We have raised legitimate criticism of the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany. I think the last one who said: “I am the state!” was Ludwig XIV. Federal Chancellor Faymann is not Austria. And if someone rightly addresses the performance or non-performance of the Federal Chancellor, then that is justified – and no criticism of Austria! I hope that this intellectual distinction is also possible among the two government parties. It must also be said that even one of your ranks has now understood that this government is not working optimally, that there are still many problems that are not solved. I would also like to express my warm thanks to the courageous Members of your group, who have been so bold in addressing this and who have just shown that there are huge problems and that nothing is happening and that we cannot therefore give applause. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] You have said several times today that you want applause, and Mrs. Steßl has also tried to sell us precisely these micro-changes, these micro-reforms as great success, but that would be about as if an automechanic gave you a completely isolated car and then called for applause for him to improve some rust spots in the fender – but that's exactly what the government is doing. In other words, the car remains despotized, but some beauty corrections are made in the hope that the citizens will then give applause. There's no applause! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haubner.]] There is no applause as long as you don't do what is expected of you. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] If we are accused of what we have been talking about, herb and beet, it was far too broad, then I tell you that we have done no more and no less than address all the shortcomings of this government. That's all we did. We have just made a long list of all that we expect this government to take up. That's what it's all about. And if Mr Faymann does not finally get in the way, then he must finally ask the question: [[President Hofer gives the bell sign]] Where was his performance?
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e19712	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Schellhorn, colleagues on working time flexibility. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is rejected. [[19:02:11]] Short debate on the response to the question 6224/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e19749	We shall now proceed to the brief debate on the reply of the honourable Member. Loacker with the order number 6224/AB. The above-mentioned answer has already been distributed, so that a reading by the writer is not necessary. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with a speaking time of 10 minutes for the first speaker. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. I now ask Mr Mag. Loacker as an applicant for the request to open the debate. The speaking time is 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e19779	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Every year, about 150,000 Austrians go to the spa, and you remember that just over two months ago, Peter McDonald – still in his position as chairman of the main association of social security funds – said that the Kuren system was no longer up-to-date. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Yes and, this is a private opinion!]] That's what he spoke to many from the heart. If he still sees this as an ÖVP Secretary-General today, he will still be wise. What happened when McDonald said that the cures were no longer contemporary? – ÖGB chief Foglar has spoken of a debate of envy, you, Mrs. Federal Minister, have sovereignly kanntened, mentioned Kur and Reha in a wash and thus tried to get the debate off the table, and the ÖVP health spokesman Rasinger has meant that people have to work so much and that they also need a little rest, and thus immediately mix the vacation with the spas. So a subject that could rightly have been discussed has been from the table within 48 hours; one has mixed medical rehabilitation, treatment, recreation, vacation, work stress, abuse and a debate of envy. But if you look at exactly what a cure is for now, you can see that even social security mixes the terms cure and rehabilitation, that on the forms are often both on it. However, when it comes to the definition, one knows that rehabilitation is used to eliminate an organic suffering or disease that has already led to a restriction on the function and restore health, while the cure would actually focus on maintaining health. Rehabilitation is, of course, an important pillar in our health system, but with what happens at the spas, in part – as you can see on the forms, please check it, check if the patient is sent for recovery on a cure or if he is sent to a rural stay – a pile of money will be fried; and we wanted to know with the request how this happens. It was perhaps the intention of Peter McDonald that he wanted to have a debate on it, but he did it very unsubstantiated. He did not know what numbers he was starting from. The chairman of the main association of social security institutions did not know what the figures were. We have received a very comprehensive answer here. But the tension is not so much what is in it, but rather exciting is what is not in it, because questions 2, 3, 4, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 15, 16 and 19 have not been answered. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: What do we really have them for?- Oh, my God!]] This concerns, for example, how old the applicants are, who have been diagnosed with the people who have been sent for a spa stay, how many people are sent more often on spa and whether they are sent more often on the same diagnosis or because of different diagnostics. Something we do not know is what the business costs, this spa system in Austria, which accounts for nearly 150,000 people a year. If you don't have a data base, it's also hard to reform something. That's why McDonald's charge is probably also being sent; and if you don't know all that we don't know here, I'm also wondering what there's actually a main association, if he can't even collect the data from the various social security institutions, and what there is a outsourced ITSV, if it doesn't manage to get data structured in a system in which all data would have to be present. In the meantime, due to the response to the request, a media discussion has relaxed in which it is also about the extent to which it is a lottery in which you live, because not everyone – especially the health insurance companies – deals with the approval of spas. At the local health insurance fund in Carinthia, a cure comes to 90,000 insured persons. In Vorarlberg a cure comes to 1,000 CCC insured persons and in Upper Austria to 177 CCC insured persons. This is a substantial difference. But they all pay the same contributions, but they get very different benefits; and they go somewhere else. If you get a cure in Lower Austria, the probability of being allowed to take a cure abroad is much higher, because there are almost 15 percent going abroad, while this does not happen in other federal states at all. At the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse you will not get any cure at all. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] I already know that the lion's share of the cures is paid by the pension insurance institution. Now, if we assume that there is a distinct number of cures paid by the health insurance companies, then it is profitable to look at whether then, if everyone pays the same amount, all the The same thing – as Mr Schopf has said before – is clearly not the case. It is a lottery whether you live in the right state and are insured with the right carrier. Something else is to be considered by the social insurance companies that care for several sectors – health insurance and pension insurance – but there is also a look at it. For example, at the Social Insurance Institute of the Commercial Economy each year each 12th insured person has a cure, at the insurance institution of public servants, at the BVA, at each 6th and at the railways almost every 4th. Unfortunately, I cannot see anything about equal treatment in this system. The Niederösterreichisches Landeskrankenkasse has a refined press speaker. He then tried to differentiate between spa and health-climatic recreation, and he thus accepted his own figures and then said that he was actually responsible for spas the pension insurance institution. I would like to thank the Niederösterreichisches Landeskrankenkasse for the insight that it would be reasonable to bring the issue together with one institution and not to spread it to 20 social security institutions, because then perhaps the evaluation of the data would also be a bit easier. What conclusion do we now draw from this answer to the question? – It is obvious that a lot of people go on spas, but the Austrians are not so bad that they need to be physically rehabilitated in this large number. We believe that the health reform which the Federal Minister of Health is doing – and which she does not do at all at the pace I would like – would provide a good opportunity with the primary care centres to move things into the outpatient area, which is now being done in the stationary area, because if someone is sent to treatment for high blood pressure and he is experiencing all possible treatments there, then it will be of no use if the three weeks in a spa are cashed, but what one has to achieve is that such a person changes his habits. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Belakovich-Jenewein and Mr Mückstein.]] It's easier if you regularly order it in the outpatient area. This certainly also applies to many other sufferings, such as the movement device and so on. The reason why nothing is happening is, of course, also an economic factor. There is the ÖVP-dominated association of spas and spas. Of course, they want to have their spas and spas full, and they insist that the social insurance companies send a minimum number of persons each year on a cure. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: You must like this when the economy flourishes!]] The social security funds have of course also entered a lot of money into their own facilities, which are located around as health centres, but which also want to be filled. It's also about the logic of red-black: We have centre managers and directors everywhere, there is a lot of money and posts to distribute, and there you are not ready to save. That is why we are not prepared to question what these many spas we are doing, first of all, bring, thirdly, whether there could be abuse, fourthly, whether there are people who go there especially often, and fifthly, why the public servants are going there so often, who certainly have less physically stressful professions than the working population of the workers. So you don't consciously look at a lot of things because you have to do something there; and then, if you look at it carefully, you could also give more answers and wouldn't have to hide the non-knowing in this big convolut. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e19858	Mrs Oberhauser spoke on a point of view. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e19880	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Loacker, I, as you have said, have followed your question from the table, in the form of the mixture of cur and rehab, because your question is also mixed. You are asking me things that I cannot actually answer because, as you know, the responsibilities are different. That is, one refers to the Social Minister, the other to the Minister for Health. That is, when I mix these two things, which I think is extremely useful – in order to advance them immediately – I really followed you. You can talk about a lot of things, and I believe that we agree that in medicine there is a backlog. That means that in these things one really has to develop, that one has to think further and also have to go new ways. Now we know that the question of the cure is a question that has developed over a long time – almost already in many centuries, I say now. We know from the nobles that they spent their time in spa resorts, and then it took some time until it was achieved as a great achievement of the employee's representation that normal workers could also ride on the spa. What you have said in the last sentence is that you have to question why so many public officials are going on a cure and not the others who are in more stressful professions are going back to the notch of the envy debate, which also accuses you of Foglar. For example, we have a lot of public servants in waste disposal, who are very physically exposed to very high loads. We have a lot of public officials in the health and nursing professions of various ways, which are also burdened and who do not, as you imply for the public service, sit with the sleeve protectors behind the desk and work nothing, but they are quite people who also work hard physically. We also know that no matter where – including those who, as you imply, sit behind the desk – working pressure is increasing. It is known that digitization is continuing, that the question of burn-out and of all these things is getting us more and more – you know, we know – because the office no longer ends then – even for no public staff – when you close the office door, but only when you turn off the phone; and many know that you can't turn off the mobile phone anymore. The answer to the question of what you need to invest to keep people healthy will be that you have to re-adjust in curing and rehab. You know that Pinggera and Felix from the Pension Insurance Institute have already adopted this issue, namely the issue of the sustainability of Kuren. Now we all know the examples of someone riding on a spa and not complying with the rules you have to comply with. This means, for example, that Diet eats there and then goes into its living candies and eats something else. I'm sure you'll have to re-adjust it. I don't think anyone would defend that they say they invest public funds, social security funds to send people on – as you say – vacations that don't stick to it. There, I think you have to set very strict rules. The pension insurance institution is now trying to re-enter the issue of sustainability with Kur, i.e. to see that what you start in the cure can also continue in everyday life. You mentioned the question of what you can do outpatiently. There are also attempts of outpatient rehabilitation because there are many people who do not want to leave home for three weeks. There are many mothers, there are many people who say that they don't want to leave home for three weeks, but that they are trying to do this outpatient. That might fit for some. This does not fit people living in burdened conditions where the relationship is not true in which the workplace is not right. They are happy – and this is a part of the success of healing – when you take them away from this situation for a period of three weeks, in order to provide them with tools that they then insert in everyday life; this is especially for people who are mentally burdened, the taking of tools. That is, cur and rehab are useful. The sustainability and the question of how to develop these things must be dealt with. I would really warn you to keep this discussion about whether cur corresponds to a holiday or other things at the level of a little felt envy. For a cure and for a rehab you need a medical confirmation. In other words, a doctor must confirm that you are ill that you need rehabilitation or treatment – either of them. You know that many applications are being rejected. That means that we are already looking very closely at who can take advantage of it. One thing that I give you the right, and I also believe that you really have to work on it, is whether it has to be dependent on the federal state, whether you can go on a spa, whether it has to continue to be a voluntary service, or whether you have to try to do these services regardless of which state you live in. The question of the same performance across the borders of the federal states is one of the issues we have addressed. In this question, as has been said, standstill would mean step back. That is to say, there are already some projects that are developing on this issue. It is also further on our agenda – also in discussions with the main association – to achieve equality on the issue as much as possible. However, I would urge you to warn us that people who need spa or rehab facilities will be equipped with an asterisk, according to the motto: Additional holidaymakers and not needed. That's not really the way it is.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e19947	The next item is the speech by Mr Spindelberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e19968	Mr. Loacker, you're waiting for what I'm going to tell you. If, in your question to the Federal Minister, you say that the cursing procedures are a regular topic in politics, then I have the impression that they are because many politicians of your beat, those who have such a neoliberal thought as you, all and everyone who has only a hint of social thought, I'd like to get rid of it. I really find that embarrassing, because if you say that a curative healing procedure – just as the minister has addressed it – is nothing but an additional vacation, then - forgive me! – you have not yet learned what this is really about, namely to make people fit for the job as soon as possible. We don't have the number of necessary facilities – especially in rural areas – that you can say that you can go to the doctor every day to get outpatient treatment; and many employers don't like this if you have to go to the doctor four to five times a week. If we have now found, as the Federal Ministry's response has shown, that over the last ten years, as you have said, an average of 150,000 people have applied for spa treatment, then we should also ask ourselves the question and ask ourselves objectively why there is such a high number of spa requests, because no one is talking about them. As the Federal Minister has already talked about mental stress, I would like to introduce another aspect, namely: The Austrians spend 300 million overtime each year. And if after ten, twenty or thirty years of hard physical work the body rebels and, for example, the support and exercise apparatus is broken, then it is sought for treatment, i.e. for a three-week stationary stay, then do you want to agree from NEOS to them the right to a cure procedure?- Oh, my God! So I really don't understand that! Talk to the affected people once! I know enough of those who, on the advice of their family doctor, have made a request for spa treatment, at which pension insurance institution was then invited and from three, four, five doctors have been examined whether the health condition is really so bad that a cure can be approved. Furthermore, there are many – and this is never mentioned in the discussion – who are allowed to stay in the spa and then not to tell the employer that they do not claim the three-week sickness, which they are entitled to in such a case, but to go on vacation for it. That's what's going on in all the discussion on the alarm clock: This is what you really want, that these social benefits are not claimed. That is why there is also the discussion that first day sick leave should be taken as a vacation – and all of this under the cover to reduce additional wage costs! I will certainly not allow workers' rights to be constantly trampled on! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] And then people come out here and spread nonsense by saying that the insurance companies only give them sugars anyway. – Instead of polemics, we should really try to bring the matter back into this discussion about reha measures and spa stays. We have to deal with this very differently and ask ourselves how we can make it possible for all the people in Austria to have a longer, self-determined life in good health. To do this, we need high-quality and efficient health care for all but also a solidary financing system within our health insurance companies. Since the colleague Nachbauer mentioned earlier that the Federal Chancellor was at the Federal Forum of the GPA-djp yesterday and demanded that one also talk about a value-added levy: Yeah, that's what I'm calling myself. If fewer and fewer people are producing more and more and larger companies in Austria are not paying any more taxes, then if we want our good social and Health systems continue to be financed, including this issue. A value added tax may not be a taboo issue. What we don't need – and I say quite openly – is your approach, colleagues from NEOS, to say that there should be only one basic health care anyway and to pay more and more physical benefits for everyone. Such a health policy, ladies and gentlemen, will certainly not exist with us by the SPÖ! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We want anyone who needs a spa stay to receive it, and no one in Austria – but no one at all – has to ask the question of whether he can still afford to be sick.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e20071	The next item is the vote on the report by Mrs Lamassoure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e20092	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Loacker, even if your question in reply, I would almost say, has brought with it a kilo of numbers which, I do not know, are modestly meaningful, I thank you for the question, because it is simply very, very important issue. They refer to a statement by the former President of the Association and current Secretary General Peter McDonald. Unfortunately, his questions about spa stays have been misinterpreted in the typical Austrian way – perhaps one could say. The debate, namely how spa stays end, how result-oriented they are, how they can and should work, was actually back from the table very quickly. In fact, the debate has exhausted itself in the question: Cure: yes or no? But if you've listened to him exactly, you know, that's why he never did. He was – and in fact it should be an important topic for all of us, namely also in the interest of contributors and public health – actually about the further development and optimization of the cure. And I can tell you from my own perspective that the cure is quite an important instrument. They asked for backgrounds: This year, at almost 57 years of age, I first completed a cure in my life in February. My diagnosis was Arthrotic changes of both knee joints, state of arthroscopy on both sides. There were about 65 treatments I got that the doctor ordered me. And it had to be the larger part of it – the insurance company’s requirement under the pilot project “Health Care Active” – to be active. The clichés, the patients come to a spa, are massaged comfortably there and then go to some pastries – do everything God has forbidden – that may have had a certain reality in the past. At the latest since the introduction of self retention, the will of patients to be active for themselves has been significantly increased, as is required by the insurance companies. If they are absolutely against these intentions, they are excluded from the cure. This pilot project “Health Care Active” will be extended to other health insurance institutions and insurance companies after positive evaluation. But I don't want to be misunderstandingd now, I wouldn't say that everything is really great anyway and we should leave everything the way it is. I'll take myself back as Example – simply not to put general accusations in the room –: My spa stay was characterized by very, very many active therapies, i.e. strengthening muscles, coordinative training, programs to improve the condition. And, of course, as a physiotherapist, it is perfectly clear to me that three weeks are a good start, but just a start, and that it must be about integrating these trainings into everyday life. Now I don't know what it's like with you. Maybe you're all much more disciplined than I am, or also the many patients I've cared for or cared for, but with me and many others, sometimes then beats to everyday life, and you become a bit negligent. I believe that when it comes to improving and developing the instruments of the cure, we will have to address the question exactly: How do we create a transfer of the good approaches that exist in a cure or in a rehab of course, into everyday life? And there is also an idea in the main association – which I believe should be pursued further – that, a certain time after the spa stay, an invitation to refresh – we call it so – to speak to the family doctor or to the institution where one has completed the cure, or also to establish, in the light of the SVA model, binding goals with the patients, and also the way there. Ladies and gentlemen, models such as the Kur, which also have a preventive character, are necessary, and I hope that most of the time here is undisputed. However, the spa has also come into the years and definitely needs to be further developed. I therefore also strongly appeal to all those who come to speak in this area, not to fall into these yes or no, either black or black or white rails, but to discuss and develop the possibilities already envisaged in the main association. Our own proposals are quite allowed, because we should all consider, perhaps we all get into the situation of needing a cure, and then we should have them if we need them.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e20147	Mrs Belakovich-Jenewein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e20169	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! To my predecessor: That's not the way it is. The head of the association at that time spoke of the full-casuality and of the fact that there are people who believe that the system should pay for the cost of the general public, they don't have to pay for it themselves, and the cure is obsolete. – It's not like that! He then shook back a biterl and said: I just meant the system “new!” Mr Loacker, I think you may be right in some areas. There may be a red-black post distribution in certain areas. There will also be patients who take advantage of this which is safe to abuse. There's that in any system, you can't always dispute everything, I'll give you all the right. That is not a question. No one wants you to do anything wrong. What already irritated me was that you said it's just that, the cure is an economic factor. Now they are from an economic party and find an economic factor obviously negative. I can't quite understand that now. You'll know for yourself how you meant that. But now I'm telling you one thing: You know, the pressure on the labour market is one that is getting stronger and stronger. Since the 1950s and 1960s, the disease pictures may have changed – not perhaps, but certainly they have changed – but that does not mean that it is not necessary to preserve human health. We want, and you too – much, much more than everyone else – that people work longer and longer. You want to raise the retirement age, that is what you ask in your requests. You want 67-, 68-year-old people to work. I understand – to a certain extent – that you say: We can't afford it otherwise!, but if you want people to work longer – in my opinion, 65 must also be done at some point – then you must also want people to be healthy. This also includes the fact that during the years of life there are signs of abuse, burn-out, mental illness and other physical suffering. That's just the way it comes to everyone in a different way. If you want these people to be fit again, then you won't be able to cure these people, so to speak, and there will bring a cure far more than if you just do it outpatiently. That's what I'm telling you. Believe me, many patients are almost forced to participate in a cure. They come in their settled centers three, four times, then they don't want to go anymore. So the effect is gone again. And that's also a problem. They make themselves here and say: Yes, and the people in the public service! – In the public service – the Federal Minister has already said a few things, for example, the firemen in Vienna have also invaded me – people do the hardest physical work. You don't want to give them a cure?- Oh, my God! So I don't quite understand. [[Abg. Sherak: He didn't say that!]] – Well, you always do that! Do you know what you're doing with it? – You’re trying to draw a picture here that people who go on spa are people who don’t work anyway, who just want to make an extra vacation! That's not the case. If there are people like that, I'm with you, then that's not a matter. But I can't quite understand the picture you're trying to draw, because it's not. I know a lot of people who've been on a cure. A cure is a first step. And just as the previous speaker said, the first three weeks are an intensive phase, and after that – it's not like the patients are going home afterwards and pretending to be nothing – a very large part is going on with various exercises that they have received, with further investigations, and then take further action at home. In Austria it is – I give you absolutely right, and this comes out in response to the inquiry – depending on which health insurance is insured. That is another argument for us, Mrs. Federal Minister, that we need to put together social security schemes in Austria. It must not depend on where I am now insured whether I am accidentally insured in Lower Austria, in Vienna, in Burgenland, wherever I am, or at a special hospital. It can't be. All people should have the same access, the same access and the same services. This system we have is really a multi-class system, that's easy. Mr Spindelberger said: There won't be any of that with us! I can only say: Unfortunately, there is God already, the multi-class system, that is simply so, because all the cash registers pay different benefits! Let's finally take the step together in Austria – it doesn't need 22 social insurance companies – and finally put the health insurance funds together and finally guarantee that all people get the same benefits! I know this is a very long, very sad topic. We haven't made it yet, and I've been in here for nine years now. I can remember that it was the predecessor of you who set herself a high goal at the time by saying that she wanted a performance harmonisation at the health insurance companies. That was in 2006 or 2007, there has been nothing like it to this day. I would also say that we do not need harmonisation, but we put the health insurance funds together! This really comes out of this question response for me, and so it was good that we talked about it today.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e20210	Mrs Mückstein's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e20232	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We are actually here at a question debate, and with regard to the answer to the question, I am right to my colleague, Loacker, since, I think, there is already a lot to be disputed. I also think that this request – if you kindly express it – is rather defensively answered, and I don't really like it for us, when we get a report from the main association on 200 pages, where you only have to analyze the data quite again. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: He asked!]] I also think you can ask about how old people are, who go on spa, which diagnosis they have, and how much the whole thing costs. What I don't like about it is that the use of cures is linked to the use of minimum security or unemployment. For general treatment: I represent a very different point of view than you, Mr Loacker. I think we have to be happy when as many people use cures as possible because it is really for many, many people – and I say that from my experience in psychotherapeutic and psychological practice – the only way to acquire health skills in a system in which they are well cared for. In this context, Kur makes a lot of sense and is very, very important for prevention and health maintenance. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] An example is the 55-year-old nurse, who has been taking out children for 30 years, attracting, lifting, wearing and wrapping, and then sometime after 30 years of service, getting cross pain. And why do you want to, if you don't want to allow this woman 28 days of recreation or recreation? It's kind of been said that if you want to recover, that's something terrible. This can help her get back to being able to work well for another two years. Equally with regard to lifestyle change: I really think it is very good how these programs for the spas are set up now, that one describes health goals, that a focus is placed on nutrition, exercise and, above all, mental health. I think you don't have to think of anyone now, we also know about ourselves, that there are phases in life where the pig dog is winning and where you are very, very happy when you get back into a setting where it is about starting to live healthier, to eat healthier and to move again. And then it goes well again for half a year, and then you can keep it up. I also think that you should evaluate spas, because there is a need for modernisation, which is no question at all. But on this point I believe that we are on a good path, there is a lot to be done. What we don't like about it is this different authorisation practice: It is always the same subject, each health insurance institution offers other benefits, and in each federal state the cure is different. In my opinion, spas would be to abolish a two-class society, because if I'm bad, I might still be able to afford a wellness holiday. Each of us knows that a good wellness holiday – even if it takes only four days – costs between 500 € and 1 000 €. Who can afford that? - Only someone who deserves very good. If you can't, it should be possible to use a cure. Savings, I think, should be done elsewhere: in the aggregation of health insurance funds, in strengthening the federal competence in health care – that would be very important – and in the federal uniform planning and care responsibility; the funding from a pot was also discussed very often. That would be the essential objectives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e20274	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e20296	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! I am glad, Mrs Minister, that you said that this system must be re-adjusted, there is something else to do. I am also grateful that it has been noted that there is still work to be done on the sustainability of the spas, that we simply need to know what it has brought and what it has brought when we look forward to it for a while. And I am also grateful that it is concededed that the different handling in the different federal states at the various cash offices is not fair to the insured. We've already achieved something. Unfortunately, nothing has been said about our system being unable to evaluate how old the people are who are applying for a cure. So that's where the social security system has completely failed. We are also unable to say how many people received a cure a second time, and we are unable to say what the diagnosiss were, which is why the people went on a cure. If we don't even know the reasons why they go on spa, then we can't evaluate whether it was sustainable either. We can't do anything! Unfortunately, this giant system, the main association, its numerous cash registers and the outsourced ITSV cannot be completely elementary things. I'll hold you once again. Mr Spindelberger, you said it was about making people work fit again. – If someone can't work and he needs to be made job fit again by means of rehabilitation, yes, I'm in favour of it, that's an important element in the Austrian health system. And you're asking: Why are there so many applications? . A certain number of applications are based, for example, on the fact that people know that they must: their active working life on spa, otherwise they will no longer be approved in the pension. So at the end of the career, you quickly submit a curative application so that you were there once in active working life to get another approval later. If you blame us for supporting a multi-class medicine, I'll tell you: There is a multi-class medicine already available today. It depends on whether you are GKK insured or not – Class 1. Then you have classes within the CCCs, as you have different service levels. If you are at the SVA, BVA or otherwise where, you are already a number better. So in Austria, when you clear it down to the bottom, you have at least one six-class medicine – because with your great system that you always praise, you have made it so much with the variety of cash. Mrs Verschlag has tried mediocrely to relativize what McDonald said. He said that the system was no longer up-to-date. And that's what you've been shoving back a little bit. Mrs Belakovich-Jenewein said that the disease pictures are changing over time. The working life has become more stressful, it has changed. You're right. But it also leads back to the point that we do not know with which diagnosis people are sent to cure. Then one could also say what is going on, to what extent the psychological strains that have become stronger are expressed in a higher need for cures. We can't say it. Our system doesn't finish this. Mrs. Mückstein gave me the right – partly voluntarily, but once involuntarily – when she said: Those who cannot afford a wellness holiday should at least be able to drive on a spa. When spa and wellness vacation are mentioned in a sentence, that's exactly what bothers me, because for many, a spa is a wellness holiday, where they stop in the morning to do some exercises. There, where this takes place, there belongs to intervened, there belongs to screwed back, there it belongs away. Where it really is about health, where it really is about diseases, it is necessary to help people get back to work. To keep a balance between health, health promotion, the rehabilitation of wellness leave, I assume that this is not possible for our system.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e20354	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[19:43:34]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e20375	I will resume the negotiations on points 3 to 8 of the agenda. I call Mr Köchl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e20400	Dear ladies! Dear gentlemen! We are now back at the point where we stopped four hours ago at the item “Private accommodation of asylum seekers”. Now I would really like to see the Minister of the Interior here. - Ah, she just arrived. Thank you, I can even congratulate you once. We have discussed today what reliefs we want to create or can, when it comes to supporting private commitment. We now have the situation that there are the organized quarters on the one hand. This may not be widely known: This is usually done from 15 persons. Or there is also the possibility to rent very easily single rooms. And this is also part of the debate: What are the conditions when people in Austria say: Yes, we do, we, a student WG, take a refugee home!Unknown term type: "%s".? Or you rent a room, you rent an apartment. At the moment, the situation is not optimal, I would like to say. We have in my village a tent town, in Krumpendorf am Wörthersee, I am there responsible refugee representative of the municipality. There are 240 people in the tent, but logically we also have quarters, now again a quarter for 30 women and children, i.e. families. We have another quarter. We have 10 per cent refugees in the village with 3,400 inhabitants, without significant problems. On the contrary! It has really done itself very, very much. What is striking – and these are some comments I want to get rid of: Many of the refugees do not have the required white ID card, but it is necessary if they are to be accommodated privately. It just has to do with an overload. These are as similar cards as these cards that we have as parliamentarians. [[The speaker shall keep his identity card up to date.]] Once it has been clarified that the asylum procedure is under way, the refugees will receive a white ID card. And only this white ID card allows you to conclude private rental contracts. I've met a lot of people in the last few weeks and months who didn't have any ID documents that didn't have the green card or the white card, but only some cash desks and then weeks around with this cash desk. Thus, it was not possible to enter into rental contracts. This situation still exists. This has to do with totally banal reasons, namely that the required printer that prints these plastic cards only spits out 30 pieces a day. There you could perhaps buy an additional printer – only as a constructive proposal. What is currently very strange about the structures is the following: When you conclude a private rental contract, you have to submit a rental contract with a fee. Payed rental contract means you have to register with a number at the financial office. By the way, it's not by phone, it's not by e-mail. You have to do this by fax or by post, it takes a week. Now I have to tell all the people who think about giving a refugee a private room: Yes, please send a fax to Vienna, then you will be assigned your number next week! So this is sometimes very, very absurd: due rental contracts, where there is only 20 € rent anyway, because the housing cost contribution, which is paid, is 110 € per month. That's where we talk about rental contracts with 20 € rent and 90 € operating costs. - No, it has to be remunerated. Two-sided forms must be completed. This frightens some, doesn't stop them, but delays many things. What is very strong in private accommodation is mobility, especially in rural areas. People live from 180 € per month. With 180 € per month it is hardly possible to buy a bus ticket. I just can't do that. That is, we have a huge theme, if, for example, refugees want to attend a course, a German course somewhere, some are also an extraordinary student at the university, then mobility is not guaranteed. That is, it naturally pushes everyone into the city, the stay in rural areas becomes a bit of a problem. A comment on the distribution: It is not rare that the transitors found someone at the station, even signed a rental contract, but found themselves in Tyrol the next day, because some control group meant, Tyrol just didn't fulfill the quota, Carinthia just didn't again the next day. It is then painfully laborious to bring the people back from Tyrol to Carinthia. That's just extra bureaucracy, unnecessary effort. What I definitely don't understand is the procedure at our border crossings. In an EU, in a European Union, I believe it would be possible for people in Zagreb to enter a bus, as in a transit area at an airport, to pass through 5 hours 48 minutes to Munich and leave Munich if they want to go to Germany. Why are we here making a policy that is constantly producing horror images in Spielfeld at the border crossing, producing horror images in Salzburg, bringing unnecessary scenarios, at the Westbahnhof for Wirbel? Why is it not possible in a European Union to board a bus in Zagreb and leave Munich six hours later without this stop? That would be essential to me. I am quite clear that these pictures are in some way an important issue for the FPÖ and an advertising message, but such a thing, such chaoss belong to avoided, valued woman interior minister. I would still like to see these transitors working offensively in Austria advertising and to say offensively that they are now building a stand. The industrial union has always been with us looking for skilled workers who can train them. That is the subject. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] Why it is not possible to operate and say in this sense at the Austrian advertising stations: If you stay in Austria, get clear conditions, get some kind of internship, get a training? – This is the way to have the skilled people that are urgently needed. We have experienced that the industrial association has appeared at our events and has been looking for the conversation because the relevant professionals were often not found, estimated FPÖ. I would like to see an offensive process of the Republic as well. As far as private accommodation is concerned, too, I would like us to look for the reasons why it is going and not constantly looking for reasons why it is not possible. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e20488	Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e20509	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I listened to you very carefully today when you spoke. You have said here that you take the fears of people seriously, the fears that many people have in view of these migration masses, which also do not end. You actually see only pictures of new ones coming to thousands every day. And you also said – I have already listened very carefully – that people who express their fear must not be called racists. I am very happy to hear that when you say that, unfortunately, the society will be divided here, Minister of State. It is those who are good, these are those who do not express themselves, who say nothing that swallows it. There might be another way. a small group of those who still believe they must clap aloud. And then there are those people in Austria who trust to say something, those people who say that they are afraid or that they are insecure, because they have just opened up an asylum centre in the neighborhood and they have not been informed before. I would like to say the following: Weitem is not the case that the population will be informed in advance. There are still enough localities in Austria, enough communities in Austria, where asylum seekers come at once, and no one has known before. I am now telling you an example from Austria's southernmost state, from a municipality where asylum seekers have been since the summer. There were people who were afraid. An eighty-year-old woman, standing alone, said: I live right next door. What's going on? – Do you know what the reaction was? She got an attorney's letter. There are left-wing lawyers trying to intimidate people. And she wasn't the only one. In this village several people have received letters of attorneys, not only a complaint threat, but also an edict to pay the letter. That's how it's going! They're stasipitzel methods. Mrs. Federal Minister, I'm not saying you're guilty, but you have to see that exactly that doesn't happen, that you don't split society and that you're not trying to make people afraid of being mouth-dead, that they don't trust themselves anymore. These are old people, they are often people who have nothing to blame for all their lives, and they are being intimidated now. The autochthonic population is, as it were, driven into an inner isolation. That's not going to happen! These are the left-wing lawyers... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] Why are you so upset, Mr Pirklhuber? You have to reject that. – They have already stepped on the plan to intimidate all those people who express legitimate fears. As I ask you, look forward!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e20564	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Do the rapporteurs wish to conclude? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall be voting on agenda item 3: Proposal from the Committee on Internal Affairs to take note of its report 857 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 4: Proposal from the Committee on Internal Affairs to take note of its report 858 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 5: Proposal from the Committee on Internal Affairs to take note of its report 859 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This too is largely accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 6: Proposal from the Committee on Internal Affairs to take note of its report 860 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. [[Abg. Hagen: What about the Ertlschweiger?]] We shall also proceed to the vote on agenda item 7: Proposal from the Committee on Internal Affairs to take note of its report 861 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 8: Proposal from the Committee on Internal Affairs to take note of its report 862 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. [[19:55:06]] 9. Point report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government template (822/B._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Explosive Act 2010 (SprG-Novelle 2015) (865 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e20639	We're now on the 9th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Magnificent came to speak. Hammer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e20667	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Under this item on the agenda, we are dealing with a novel of the Explosive Law. This was mainly due to new EU targets for civilian explosives. I think we all saw the public at last weekend, where and for what purposes explosives are used in the civil field, in the explosion of the power plant in Voitsberg. The result is known, you may need to reload there a little bit to finally eliminate it. The aim of the specifications was to achieve the same standards for the provision and, above all, for the conformity assessment of explosives in all EU countries, while at the same time ensuring the free movement of goods – of course within the EU – at the same time. In concrete terms, a fire and explosive may not be placed on the market until the conformity is certified by a conformity assessment body. Moreover – important – a corresponding label with a user guide and safety information in German, so that they can really be read and understood by everyone. The expression of this conformity assessment shall be the CE marking. To sum up, I do not believe that a spectacular regime is necessary, but because of EU requirements and therefore a sensible system. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e20703	Next speaker: Mr Fazekas. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e20724	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! My previous speaker mentioned it: The novelle is not so spectacular, but sometimes spectacular in its effect. He has already mentioned the example of last weekend in Styria, whereby one has to say that one knows this from television documentation. It is not the first building that has remained so in its entirety, I have already seen pictures where entire high houses should have coincided, but this has not happened. So I think there will be a little more work to be done. We all remember the “Muppet Show” many years ago, there was the Crazy Harry. The pyrotechnic expert did not really make us very meaningful at the time, but showed us what could happen to explosives, not only with military, but – in this law – with civilian explosives. But we also know that it is necessary for such a material to be used, be it in mining, whether in avalanches, tunnel construction or, as in Voitsberg, in the explosion of old, no longer needed buildings. It is therefore all the more important that there are rules that properly solve this. It is good that there is harmonisation in order to ensure in Europe a uniform procedure for the protection, safety and safety of the persons involved, the working people, but also the safety of the environment. This is an important aspect. It is, I believe, also a matter which will be approved by all political groups. Also to be mentioned are the newly incorporated data protection provisions – this is now new within this explosive law – because, of course, there must also be data exchange with the European Union, with the Commission, with various authorities and bodies. This is also important because it is a specific security aspect and contributes to ensuring that economic operators can rely on the proper operation of trade that is properly worked but also contributes to the protection of the population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e20761	I call Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e20782	Mr President. Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The Explosives Act is to be modernised and new EU targets for civilian explosives are needed. It is very important, ladies and gentlemen, that these products are marked with the CE mark. Manufacturers, importers and dealers are subject to new information and storage obligations, and control tasks are also delegated to them. However, it is also very important that such products meet the safety requirements. If they do not comply with the security requirements, the authorities shall be informed without delay. In accordance with EU standards, this Explosives Act is to be updated by the end of April 2016 in order to ensure a high level of protection across Europe in terms of safety, health and the environment. A proper approach! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e20809	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 822 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. Mr Krainer, you are not in the right place. [[Abg. Krainer: I know, but it is still unanimous!]] Well, go over there, please, be so nice! [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Abg. Krainer: (in the direction of his seat) Is that possible?]] That's almost perfect. That's unanimity. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[20:01:20]] 10. Point report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government template (844, e.g._Other Organiser Treaty between the Republic of Austria, the Slovak Republic and the Czech Republic on the three-country border point of Thaya – March (866 d.b.) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Government Template: Treaty between the Republic of Austria and the Czech Republic amending and supplementing the Treaty between the Republic of Austria and the Czech Republic on police cooperation and the second addition to the European Convention of 20 June 1970 on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union of the European Communities on the Functioning of the European Union of the European Communities on the Functioning of the European Union of the European Union, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the one part, and of the other part, of the other part. April 1959 on legal aid in criminal matters (783 d.a.) (in accordance with § 28a GOG no committee preliminary advice)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e20880	We now come to the points 10 and 11 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. In the case of item 11 of the agenda, the preliminary consultation in a committee in accordance with Article 28a of the Rules of Procedure was suspended. There was no oral reporting. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e20911	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and at home in front of the TV screens! Agenda item 10 concerns a contract between the Republic of Austria, the Slovak Republic and the Czech Republic on the three-country border point of Thaya – March, which is still moving, and this border point is in the middle of March and is, as I said, also moving. It has now been agreed that there should be an immutable limit there, and that is now a matter of decision-making. This requires a constitutional majority. And in order for this to go well legally, the Federal State of Lower Austria must also agree to this law. Agenda item 11 is a Treaty between the Republic of Austria and the Czech Republic. This is about the deeper and better cooperation of the police. This needs to be adapted to the circumstances, because of the border controls that could be done together. It is about data exchange on the network, about assistance and the shortened handling of criminal cases in these two countries. I would ask for your consent. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e20943	Next speaker: Mr Plessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e20964	Mr President. Dear Minister of the Interior! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! At the last meeting of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, the results of the vote on the Government paper 844 were the following: Treaty between the Republic of Austria, the Slovak Republic and the Czech Republic on the three-country border point March – Thaya unanimously. Today, this state contract is also to be applied in accordance with § 50 para. 1 Z 1 B-VG. The objective of today's decision is to finalise the three-country boundary point Thaya – March and to enter into force a trilateral treaty establishing the common three-country border point March – Thaya as immobile. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the second theme of the current debate concerns the Treaty between the Republic of Austria and the Czech Republic amending and supplementing the Treaty between the Republic of Austria and the Czech Republic on police cooperation and the second addition to the European Convention of 20. On 4 April 1959, the Court of Justice of the European Communities referred to the Court of Justice for a preliminary ruling a question on This legislative matter is also presented here today for decision. The aim is to adapt the existing Treaty or the Convention in accordance with the current framework conditions, to modernise it, to further enhance efficiency in the defence of risks, in the prevention and prosecution of criminal offences, but also to improve cross-border cooperation. The Treaty on Police Cooperation between the Czech Republic and Austria was signed in July 2005 and has been in force since July 2006. So ten years have passed since then, in which a lot has happened: Austria and the Czech Republic became a Schengen member, the international legal system has developed further, et cetera, et cetera. In order to ensure the high quality of police cooperation, an adaptation must therefore be carried out. Finally, the following comments were made, because today, many times, politicians have made the statement that they want to build border fences: I have already said it several times in the Committee on the Interior: I don't like this idea. Structural measures are necessary, I am right, but we do not need border fences. In addition, we need staff to monitor the border fences, but, as everyone here knows, we have scarcely sufficient personnel at our disposal. Especially with the police there was a minute of 3,000 police officers from 2000 to 2006 under the blue-black orange – and I have said this several times, Mr. Darmann. We need more staff from the police, so I can ask you, Mrs. Interior Minister. In my district of Gänserndorf, 25 Planstel- (b) the date of issue of the application of I will do everything I can to ensure that these 25 planning posts are re-allocated to our district, because we need more staff in the border area to carry out our tasks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e21013	Mr Magnificent came to speak. It's a kilnauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e21034	Mr President. Estimated Minister of the Interior! Ladies and gentlemen. Watchers and seers! Security through cooperation: This agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Czech Republic may well be described, for it includes improvements in cross-border follow-up, cross-border observation and mixed strip service and renewal, as regards support from officials on foreign territory. I would like to take this opportunity here to thank our police officers in the executive service, but also the soldiers who care for our security every day at the borders, because they really do great things there. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! After many wars and great suffering, Europe has become the Europe it is now. I therefore think that those who want to become Europeans in this spirit must be accepted and taken with them. That is why I should also like to thank the civil society that has shown and demonstrated great willingness to help. In return, however, those who do not carry this European spirit must be moved back and forth again. Unfortunately, some of our laws for the situation we are currently experiencing are not quite sufficient. It is the right of a state to know who is residing in its territory, for that is the outflow of its sovereignty. And this is about taking measures that allow people to be caught and have controlled and regulated access to Austria. This is not about stopping with a fence of war refugees, because it works efficiently only with a local solution that is a command of the hour. However, we must also bear in mind that freedom in Europe is guaranteed only through secure external borders. Since in recent years and decades, however, we have never been required to consider what it means to secure external borders, we are apparently almost overwhelmed. But there too, the solution can only be a strong Europe. This strong Europe can only be achieved through better cooperation within and outside cooperation. It is not a question of shooting off refugees from warships today. Such an extreme interpretation is certainly not helpful to an objective debate. Rather, it is about recording people and registering in hotspots at the external borders. And if this is not possible with the police alone, the military should support it. Nothing else is meant. No one wants to use violence – not even refugees!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e21077	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 10: Proposal from the Committee on Internal Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Treaty between the Republic of Austria, the Slovak Republic and the Czech Republic on the three-country border point of Thaya – March, in 844 of the Supplements, the approval in accordance with Article 50(1). 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act. Taking account of the fact that the present State Treaty provides for federal borders in accordance with Article 3(1) of the Treaty. 4 in conjunction with Article 3 para. 2 Federal Constitutional Act, I first put it in the sense of § 82 para. 2 C 7a of the Rules of Procedure specify the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the conclusion of the present State Treaty to give approval to a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required for constitutional purposes, which, of course, automatically results from the unanimous adoption anyway. In accordance with Rule 65 of the Rules of Procedure, we shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 11: Treaty between the Republic of Austria and the Czech Republic amending and supplementing the Treaty between the Republic of Austria and the Czech Republic on police cooperation and the second addition to the European Convention of 20 June 1970 on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union of the European Communities on the Functioning of the European Union of the European Communities on the Functioning of the European Union, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the one part, and of the other part, of the other part. ==References====External links==* Official website I ask those ladies and gentlemen who have approved the present State Treaty in accordance with Article 50. 1 Z 1 Act of the Federal Constitution to give an acceptable sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[20:12:18]] 12. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 1334/A(E) by Mr Mag. Daniela Musiol, Mag. Harald Stefan, Dr. Nikolaus Scherak, Ing. Waltraud Dietrich, colleagues on the implementation of the Enquete Commission on "Strengthening Democracy" (877 d. B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e21156	We're coming to the 12th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Steger came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e21183	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If we were to go to SPÖ and ÖVP, then the unwords of the year would certainly be the word “Zaun”, but far above would also be “direct democracy”, because rarely did the reform indifference of the former major parties prove to be so clear as on this issue. Ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, you must accept this accusation: They have allowed direct democracy to become one of the largest and also long-term mogel packs, because for years this issue has been discussed, and for years you have proposed to the Austrian population that you have a serious interest in implementing direct democracy in Austria. In the last 2013 election campaign, it was not only an election promise, but all the parties were already agreed, it was only discussed about the number of signatures. After the election, there was then a compromise proposal, on which it was based. Then again for months, together with countless experts, every detail of direct democracy has been reflected in a committee of inquiry. They even invited extra eight citizens and gave them the right to speak in order to live once and for all civil society. First of all, this survey commission looked forward to a good start, but now we know you just wanted to do it as if. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What did you do? – At the end of the day, you took a few minor issues, whose implementation hurts the least, packaged them into a triangular majority report and presented them as a result, leaving out exactly that area that was actually concerned: genuinely binding citizens’ participation! But at least, I have to say, with this result, you have finally made it clear and clear that you do not keep anything from politics to the point of view of the population. But hope dies most recently. That is why, together with the other opposition parties, we have now reintroduced this request in order to give you, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, once again the opportunity to go away from this mistake. Finally, say goodbye to this culture of premeditation of the population! Finally, put an end to direct democracy with a three-stage national legislation, that is, with a binding referendum at the end, if Parliament does not vote in the sense of the initiative, in order – with veto referendums, with lower obstacles and without any thematic limits! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Listen I would like to ask you all the time to look for any arguments against direct democracy with the magnifying glass. Concentrate Please feel free to find solutions! But if you look at the current situation in Austria, at the Austrian borders, among other things in the field, you can see clearly and clearly why you do not want to implement direct democracy in Austria. This is because you know exactly that your decisions out there in the Austrian population are no longer majority-able for a long time now, that the population, with real participation in your process, where there are no border controls, no passport controls, no gun controls, where there is no registration, where you do not even know who is coming into our country, had already pulled the line. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is precisely because you know that, you do everything you can to prevent direct democracy from being implemented in Austria. Before questioning your own population, you would rather go to Germany and do everything the woman prays for. But if you already have to go to Switzerland, please go to Switzerland, because – and this concerns both topics – Switzerland has demonstrated for years that a parliamentary democracy, combined with a strong direct democracy, can work excellently, that this does not mean a weakening of Parliament, but rather a strengthening. It means a greater awareness of the population, a greater interest, and above all it means a better and more failed policy than in Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties SPÖ and ÖVP, to express it again in their so-called two favorite words: Direct democracy is the democratic fence of protection for the people against your misconceptions and your broken election promises. I say: Let's build these fences before it's too late!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e21285	Mr Cap has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e21307	Dear colleague Steger, this was now an attempt at a very fine opposition speech. [[Abg. Kitzmüller: A successful one!]] However, the citizens who watch will ask themselves the question: How can we really be more involved in the legislative process? And that's where the information factor plays a major role. And that's where the timing plays a big role: When will I be with you? That is exactly where – by the way, also under the praise of the opposition; They also had a little heartache in their eyes when we discussed it – it was pointed out that the reflections are exactly the core. We said crowdsourcing. The Finnish model is meant. It is about being there in time and being able to speak with it so that you can start something with it. Look, I get it when law firms, notaries, lawyers plus interested media say: I want the kind of direct democracy with which I can most do something where I can enforce interests! In California – by the way, I don't know who mentioned this from the opposition parties anymore – there are right facilities where you go and say: I have an idea for a direct democratic initiative, which is great! We're making a law text! There you have half a million dollars or a million dollars depending on how much you need! – In this way, California now has a deficit of 60 billion dollars. In Switzerland, it is even agreed on how the train timetable is. Imagine, I have 17 votes in 17 municipalities there, then the trains are going against each other and not one at a time! So that's something I can't understand. [[Abg. Kitzmüller: You already underestimate the population very strongly!]] – I was allowed to exaggerate a little, as your colleague has just exaggerated. Now it's indisputable. Now I'm not exaggerating. But once, I've been exaggerating. I think it's very good if you're very precise. We also want to improve this – whether we are making a voter register, whether we are making a central electoral register, or a voting book. We want to do that, but where you really know and know something, it has to develop first. That's at municipal level, that's at country level. That, I think, is it. At the federal level, we have the debate. We've been looking for, we've been fighting and fighting. We have even tabled a joint proposal which was the basis for this committee of inquiry. So we've been there a lot. But we couldn't agree on a model. That was a real problem, even though we really tried. [[Abg. Steger: All of us!]] The Enquete Commission was really good. There have been citizens there, there have been experts there. We sat there, we listened there, we got it, and we didn't succeed somewhere, but we didn't leave it up. We want to think about that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Moser.]] We want to continue to try to continue this dialogue, but we have said: If it is not done when a practice is first developed at local and country level, is it necessary to establish a relationship for this purpose? For representative democracy in Austria has a long tradition compared to other European countries in which this is not so; but there is that, and that is also to be improved and expanded. We have put in place so many measures with which all this is closer to citizens, for example in the petitions. You're not supposed to underestimate all of this! The citizen has to realize that electronic instruments are going faster, more efficient, that we really want to help, but that the citizen and the citizen decide – and not in California, where mutual interest groups with money, media access and legal knowledge indicate what is not good for the citizen or what is not good for the citizen. Because you are looking at me so skeptically with concerns on the forehead, Mr. colleague, you have been in the government once too. [[in the direction of the Abg. Kassinger]] I can't remember that when you were in the government, you suddenly said: We need to strengthen direct democracy in a very massive and efficient way. – I can’t remember that! [[Abg. Steger: Unlike you!]] I've been thinking right now, but I can't remember that there was such an initiative during the black and blue era. Now, in the opposition, now they are beginning to discover it again. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riemer.]] Question: Why now and why not earlier? So let us continue the dialogue. We really want to continue this discussion, so we also said: Interesting! The minority report, which we really want to look at more closely! – However, the majority report has actually found the approval of parts of the opposition, when it was said: Let us continue on the basis that this is a real progress! – I ask you to acknowledge that too.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e21401	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Musiol. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e21422	Mr Cap, you have not disappointed me. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I was sure: If you talk to me, give me enough stuff to answer. You really did. At least that's what's left. Unfortunately, your attitude – not only your personal attitude, but the attitude of the SPÖ – or your approach to direct democracy is not a reluctance to do so. You suggested it yourself – how did you say? - We were already ready. - Yeah, we've been that far. We have negotiated head with the then clubman of the ÖVP – now National Council President. We agreed at the time on a model which was the basis for the Committee of Inquiry. This model was the popular survey instead of the referendum, and you simply canceled it without any concrete argument, because your majority report says nothing about it. I must say that I was also surprised that you rejected this request at all. I believe that this is already a further development of democracy in the committee, because what we are otherwise used to is reluctances and non-Positions. I think it's good that you've been positioning and saying: With this joint minority report – which has just been cast into this application by all the opposition parties – you cannot join. - I'm glad! So I'm not glad you can't go along, but I'm glad you took at least one position here, because then you can at least talk about it. The problem is that you really don't show a backbone here, that you really don't show a clear line here, because you may not have it either, that may be already. The They have greens in this respect – with all the open questions, which still exist. I do not want to pretend that all the Greens are equally in love with direct democracy as I am, but we have agreed on a common path and have already made a request in 1987, and we will also make proposals in future, even if I am not there at all. The point is as follows – I was told just now, I don't have that in my mind that when you were in opposition, direct democracy for the SPÖ was quite an interesting topic: If you make announcements here and if you have found that interesting at the time, then later on, you could somehow get around the discussion 2012/2013 to find a compromise with us and with the ÖVP together here, then I don't understand how you can create yourself here and simply cancel it without arguments or with the same arguments again and again. That's exactly the problem! The story with the time: We had a lot of time – we all had a lot of time – but at some point you have to say: So, and now we decide! This is exactly the problem that we also have in connection with the so-called political or party starkness. I don't think it's our decisions in terms of content that you like to think well and once you're bad, but it's the fact that no more debate is taking place, the fact that people don't understand why politicians – I'm taking everyone here now – once a little bit, but then they've done something completely different. My conviction is that direct democracy can counter this very culture, because then you have to stand up and then you have to argue why you want it and why you don't want it. Unfortunately, we have now left out another opportunity to introduce this at the federal level, but you have in your majority report the countries and the municipalities inside. We have commissioned an opinion from Professor Merli, and the result of this is quite clear that what you are now proclaiming as a major reform here is, in fact, already largely possible at national level, with the exception of the national legislation. The crucial question now is: How to do You're continuing on this? Keep on slowing down and holding and expert hearings and whatever, or make nails with heads, and if so, until when do you do that? We talked about this in the Constitutional Committee, and we were promised by the Committee president, Wittmann, that the House's legal and legislative service would be asked to examine it. But the question is: Until when is a test and then what happens? – You can already believe that you can sit everything out, but I firmly believe that people are not allowed to walk around the nose. That is why I also believe that there are people who also feel that the SPÖ and ÖVP are living here in connection with direct democracy and that this is perhaps not decisive, but then perhaps the last alzerl, which is why we think: Well, just as they behave, I can't trust them. One last thing, because the lamp on the speaker's desk has been shining for a long time: Mrs Steger, I think that this fence history and the history of asylum are now not particularly appropriate areas to address a common request here, because that is exactly where our difference lies. A polarized issue is not a matter which should be dealt with immediately with by the culprit of direct democracy. This is particularly because, as a green person – and I would like to say this very clearly here – we clearly see areas which are not negotiable, not via di- democracy, and these are human rights, and the whole question of refugees, asylum seekers is a human rights question and nothing else.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e21495	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Gerstl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e21516	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I think I have to explain to the spectators a little bit, which is in the mood for the vote today, because we have already made the decisions here in the House some time ago about how we deal with direct democracy. That is why today this is just a little bit more of the same, a little bit more of what we have already had, because the united opposition has once again made the same request that we have dealt with here two months ago. The House has opted for something else in a majority way, so we really do not need it today. But we have made it quite honest, so that we can reveal it and say: Yeah, you've brought it in again, so we'll say it again. No, but in reality it is that we are discussing it again, lost tired of love. [[Abg. Musiol: No!]] Nor do the spectators have any of it if they make a request three times, four times, five times, because it remains the same result. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Zinggl.]] Regardless of that, however, I would like to hold one because it is important: Direct democracy is further promoted. I have to tell you, Mrs Musiol, that I am even grateful to you that you have tabled the request, unlike Mrs Steger, because I can say so clearly that in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, we have decided that what is going on in direct democracy is now examining Parliament's legal, legislative and scientific service, as the proposals we have decided in most cases can all be implemented. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak.]] If that's not progress, I don't know, Mrs. Musiol. This is a step forward, because this is a very concrete step forward. It is very specific that citizens are more involved in the legislative process, even before we even introduce it. At the government level, it has been initiated... – This is a strong means, says my colleague Cap. [[Abg. Cap: A strong means!]] That's it, it didn't exist before. It goes on that we can also carry out at the national and municipal level that veto referents are also carried out there. So these are big things. I am also very glad that you have received the opinion of Mr Merli, Mrs Musiol, because you have just said that this is not the case, except with a referendum. [[Abg. Musiol: You're welcome!]] – Now you yourself have obtained an opinion, which says: You can do that. [[Abg. Musiol:... three-stage!]] We are therefore very confident that we will be able to implement this very soon in the interests of citizens. More direct democracy is part of this government programme and is being implemented by us.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e21604	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e21625	Mr President. Mr Cap! I'm never sure you really believe what you're saying, and if you believe it, there's always, I think, an essential reason. You always assume from the premise that compared to the time when you moved into Parliament, namely in 1983, it is better now. From the premise – I have already told you – I am not going to go out, because I was not even in the world. I think we need to change something really massive. There is a good reason why we put these demands back here, Mr Gerstl, because you did not reject the request, but you rejected the minority report. That's right! I think we just need to discuss here. We have long discussed in the democratic survey, and what remains in the majority report is very little. I said it last time: You've got things in there like the abolition of the silence of office – that's what the government programme says – you have things inside like the introduction of technical education – that's also in the government program – and now you want the voting book, and that's always commendable, I personally think it's a matter of course, but it's okay, it's a step further, but in direct democracy, there's quite a misdisplay. What you want is the empowerment for the federal states. I also said again last time, because I consider it so important: What does that mean? – That the population in the federal states could vote on certain legislative instruments such as building law, fishing law, dance school law? – That it’s just what the population wants, I don’t think, but she wants more. Yes, we are now discussing in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and in addition the measures that are necessary in the Rules of Procedure for strengthening democracy. But for the direct democratic funds, there are no major steps here again alone from the majority report, as there is not much inside, so we are requesting this and we simply believe that we must move forward as an opposition. Just as the citizens in the survey demanded this: the three-stage national legislation. That's why this is our request. It would be useful if you would give yourself a back and perhaps go a step further than what you have proposed in your majority report.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e21660	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Tür. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e21687	Mr President. High house! You certainly know the article by Dr. Tassilo Wallentin in the “Kronen Zeitung”, entitled “The Swiss Model”. I would like to quote a few passages: Wallentin speaks of “Asyl-Chaos, Gender-Wahn, superfluous bureaucracy”, terrible state spending and so on. I would now like to comment briefly on his article. Wallentin writes in the article under the title ‘The Swiss model’ means: “How is it that there is no war for 500 years, 4 religions and 4 groups of people with 4 languages and 26 small states for the benefit of all, the unemployment is less than 3%, the wages are very high, the infrastructures are perfect and the universities are better than in rest of Europe?” Wallentin then gives himself the answer: “With direct democracy according to the Swiss model. In Switzerland, politicians or parties do not have the say, but the citizens. They are the bosses and can show the political class – at any time – the red card.” I think what's inside is a true word. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I would like to conclude this article with the conclusion: “Either ‘we’ – as President of the Court of Auditors Moser expressed – ‘do not slow down against the wall’, or we are reversing the conditions of power – as in Switzerland. The difference once led Kurt Felix to the point: “ – He speaks of Germany, but this can be done in Austria. – “Germany has happy politicians and an unhappy people; Switzerland has a happy people and unhappy politicians.” Ladies and gentlemen, I can sign one thing. A very smart man, the Tassilo Wallentin. When you read the article, you'll see what's going on wrong in Austria, because politics doesn't listen to the people anymore. In Switzerland it is the other way round, and Switzerland is also doing very well. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Cap.]] – That would be desirable if that were direct democracy, which is being lived in Switzerland. There is still a smart head who has been very strongly committed to direct democracy in Austria. You all know him, he was sitting here in the National Council: Frank Stronach. [[Boah-Rufe at the SPÖ.]] They know his demand for independent citizens in Parliament. He says quite clearly: ‘In return to the Members who come to Parliament through list-making, independent citizens need to be independent.’ He is in favour of a reform of the political system. Whoever has led himself to the program once knows: He would also like to make 50 regional constituencies, according to the current political system, in which there are 50 citizens, who are directly elected to Parliament under a system that you can read with us, which is only available for a period of time, that is, have no dependence on any party, and who can really decide, in the interests of the citizens, directly according to their own conscience. That's a good approach. That would be 150 Members here in the National Council. This is also a saving measure. I think that's a reasonable statement. If you look at Dr. Wallentin's article and the program of the team Stronach to direct democracy, you can only sign it up to one. I call on you to go in this direction and make direct policy for citizens, direct democracy. – That would be the right step.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e21769	Mr Dr Doorer has now come to speak. I'm sorry. You have been announced, Mr Hagen has come forward, but I do not think we are wrong with you. [[in the direction of the Abg. Hagen]] Please, Mr. Dr. Door.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e21814	The Stronach team may not be so for direct, but for rapid democracy and sometimes pushes itself forward. You can't do that. In the end, truth will prevail, not speed. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: We hope so too!]] The Madam President has invited to this Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the strengthening of democracy in Austria. This survey has been advocating, and first proposals are now under way. I refer here to the majority report of the government groups SPÖ and ÖVP, and reform is very simple, I would like to say here. First of all, I am concerned that political processes are more transparent. There is a clear link between policy and the involvement of citizens. There are two points to this: Information and participation. I believe that we are on a good footing when it comes to abolishing the strict silence of office in Austria. The creation of a fundamental right to access to information is an essential element. It has already been said that it is part of the government programme. SPÖ and ÖVP have tabled the appropriate request by Mr Wittmann and Mr Gerstl to the Constitutional Committee, he has been dealt with and is now under consideration. This will be a very important step forward in the field of information. For participation: It is about early integration of citizens into the creation of a new law. Mr Cap has already referred to the Finnish model: Experience of previous regulations is brought into an online platform by citizens, ideas and ideas, as well as information on the principles of a new legislative project by the legislator. There arguments are exchanged, and this input is then evaluated by experts and is incorporated into Parliament's debate in the legislative process. The English expression crowdsourcing is already quite familiar. That is to say, the people are being used here as a source of knowledge. Now to the review process: Even the Green Members have very much praised the progress to be made. In fact, this is an opening up of the review process, i.e., it is also primarily through an online platform that citizens can get a position, as well as official services. This means that comments are made, and these comments can also be commented on and developed by the public. In the report of the Committee of Inquiry, SPÖ and ÖVP have announced reforms. For me, as a social democrat, accessibility is particularly important, but accessibility in the broadest sense of the word. Accessibility is quite simple: no complicated computer with passwords, no accessibility means avoiding official Chinese as possible, but accessibility also means using low-sleep access in order to allow as many people as possible access to law enforcement. After all, direct democracy is only one aspect of the theme of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, “Strengthening democracy”. I also believe that it is a good start to start with direct democracy, where the topics are very, very close to people: where it is about living together, about building regulations, municipal law, building law, traffic issues. – The city of Vienna has already lived up to this with five questions in the 2010 public survey. Some people are going to slow down what's happening here. I can relativize this with an ironic quote by Helmut Schmidt, who has already been quoted today. Helmut Schmidt said that “the snail pace is the normal pace of any democracy,” and makes himself fun of it. What does he mean by that? We, as democrats and democrats, are looking for the majority in the system, and in the ideal case we are even looking for compromise and consensus. In this sense, I believe, the government parties are working on a quality result on the question of strengthening democracy, and that will be quite simply in this case in strengthening democracy. [[Abg. Moser:... Snail rate?]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e21874	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Constitutional Committee to take note of its report 877 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. [[20:42:54]] 13. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 1346/A by Mr Heinz-Christian Strache, Members of Parliament, on ministerial support in accordance with Art. 142 para. 2 lit. b against Chancellor Werner Faymann(878 d.b.) 14. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 1347/A by Mr Heinz-Christian Strache, Members of Parliament, on ministerial support in accordance with Art. 142 para. 2 lit. b against the Federal Minister of the Interior. Mikl- Leitner (879 a.k.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e21935	We now come to points 13 and 14 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Magistrate has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Stefan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e21963	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The Freedom Party has filed an application for an appeal to the Constitutional Court against the Federal Chancellor Werner Faymann and the Minister of the Interior Mikl- Leitner. This requires a majority in Parliament, and I would like to briefly explain what it is all about so that everyone will probably understand that this is a completely logical consequence, and therefore the vote, when it comes to matters of law, must be taken in such a way that the request is adopted. [[Abg. Jarolim: Please stay objective!]] The instrument of the ministerial contribution is intended to ultimately also give a consequence to the control function of the National Council. Article 142 of the Federal Constitutional Act provides that, in the event of a violation of the law by members of the government, a procedure will be initiated on the basis of a decision of the National Council and, ultimately, the Constitutional Court will be able to decide on the loss of the office as a consequence. So that's the content, and now I'm telling you what the violation of the law of the two persons mentioned – although this is known from the media and so on. I am afraid, however, that I have to explain this to some Members in particular. Since 4. On September 1, 2015, Zig thousands of people were able to cross the Austrian border without complying with the Foreign Police Act. According to the Foreign Police Act, it is possible for third-country nationals to enter Austria if you either have a visa or apply for asylum. - That's not what happened. So it was not in line with the Foreign Police Act. The Foreign Police Act knows some can-determination and softer formulations, but it also has clear must-destinations. One of these must provisions is § 120 Foreign Police Act, which also provides for a penalty if one does not act in accordance with the law in this regard. It also provides for a penalty of € 1,000 to €5,000 if you “knowably promote the illegal entry or transit of a stranger into or through a Member State of the European Union or neighbouring country of Austria” or simply allow. This is therefore a very clear provision, and against this clear provision has been simply and simply violated, in a twenty thousand-fold way. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The following counter-arguments will now come: First of all: That wasn't illegal at all! – Well, I have to explain to you how this cannot be illegal if all the foreign police law clearly lays down a standard in this regard. Then the next argument will be: Well, it was illegal, but we have an emergency! – There are at least once in criminal law a few explanations for an emergency. There is an apologizing emergency, but it is also clearly demonstrated – and this is not happening here, because it is always a matter of disproportionately serious damage when one follows the law. However, the disproportionate damage suffered by the Republic of Austria and its citizens by the fact that their borders are not guaranteed that internal security is not guaranteed that we no longer know who is on Austrian soil by simply and simply not complying with our legal order is no longer to be explained. It may be to explain for a day or two days if one is overwhelmed by this situation – which is also something strange, if one knows how long our authorities have been, to a large extent, federal army and so on, warning of what will happen – but so long?- Oh, my God! Of course, there is enough information about the fact that the whole thing has been up for months, and even the changes in the paths do not happen from today to tomorrow, but that definitely happens over a few days – but it has not been responded! With an emergency there is simply and simply not to argue, so there is no excuse for this. Then it will be argued: Well, the FPÖ is making political capital out of this proposal! – With the promise that we do not need to beat political capital from this request, the government gives us every day – even yesterday again with the hack and that it no longer knows where it is going, with different formulations and, above all, simply with the fact that one does not become master of this situation, but continues to let it continue to run and so our Republic continues to be seriously threatened. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Then there will be the argument that we should bring in a criminal apologies. - Thank you, we've already done that. This is not an argument either, because we are the Parliament here, and we have this very instrument of ministerial support. The last argument will come: Then every single official standing at the border must be held responsible! – That too is not right! The service right doesn't do that, that's quite clear. It is clear to note the order structure from top to bottom, and we are not talking about the officials at the border, but we are talking about the members of the government here. And if these consciously break laws, then exactly that is the idea of the ministerial anchorage – and precisely for that we are here! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is simply and simply one of the most essential tasks of the State to secure its borders and to ensure internal security, and if we claim that we cannot secure the borders, then we question it completely. We question our state when we say we can't do that because otherwise one – I don't know what kind of – humanitarian disaster and God knows what's going on. It can't be that now, in 2015, we say suddenly, Austria is not able to secure its borders! That would really call the state into question – and that is what you do in the end with your argumentation, and that is simply not to accept. We by the Freedom Party do not accept this and will continue to insist that our rule of law and our Republic of Austria are secured at the borders and that internal security is guaranteed. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is also necessary to comply with the legal provisions, and if we suddenly put the rule of law out of force and argue here quite easily with an emergency, then we do no good service to the Republic of Austria. That is why I can only ask you to take account of your control function as Parliament – it is the Parliament's task to control the government. And if we find that the government or government members are clearly acting unlawfully, illegally, then we also have to make this request here in order to give the Constitutional Court the opportunity to review it. Remember that too! You know exactly what is in the media, and you also know quite exactly how much the population is now unsure, because people notice that the government does not comply with the laws. Don't let that stand in the room! Give the Constitutional Court the opportunity to examine this, and after that we will see exactly how it really is: whether it is illegal or not. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In this sense, I very much hope that you, together with us, will follow this path and ultimately also serve Parliament.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e22041	Now comes Mr. Klubobmann Mag. Arbitrators to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e22063	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The Constitutional Committee of the National Council met on 9 February. November, i.e. recently, last week, the two ministerial interests of the FPÖ were negotiated and, in order to say this clearly, rejected by a broad majority. Although an interesting debate has been held, it has also gone a long way in the legal situation and the constitutional and European legal situation, at least in the case of statements by some Members. First of all, perhaps on the legal assessments: The Federal Government has always been aware that this is a very sensitive situation, and has also supported the process by obtaining legal opinions both by the Constitutional Service of the Federal Chancellor's Office and by the Ministry of the Interior's legal section, and has discussed and taken note of these results in the Council of Ministers. In principle, however, it should also be noted that this is a consideration of legal goods, and that it must be based on an extremely sensitive procedure if the legal property of life and health, which is certainly to be considered as the higher-ranking, if not the highest-ranking one, is to be considered. Therefore, the question arises whether one does not act cynically, inhumanly and also outside the European fundamental right understanding if one wants to doubt it. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] I can contribute briefly to the clarification in so far as I quote the two legal opinions in the essential paragraphs. From the case-law of the Ministry of the Interior: ‘In accordance with Art. 5 para. 4 lit. (c) the Schengen Border Code may require a Member State to provide third-country nationals with one or more conditions of entry (e.g. The possession of a passport, the possession of a visa, does not fulfil the requirements of entry into its territory, among other things.” – that is, “allow for humanitarian reasons.” [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] ‘The Border Code has been adopted as an EU Regulation and is therefore directly applicable. If it is not assumed that it is therefore governed by national rules, the regulation seems to be in line with the provisions of § 15 of the Foreign Police Act – – – “if there is reference to international agreements or, as regards visa obligations, to EU law at all.” [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: For hundreds of thousands?- Oh, my God!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Darmann.]] If you might listen, you might experience a legal clarification and you might also be able to reconsider your behaviour on the basis of a legal consideration – if you want to. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: I will read your illuminance in the stenographic protocols and at the next towing process...!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] “On the basis of the facts given, the Austrian security authorities allow border crossing for humanitarian reasons, even if the persons concerned do not have passports or visas.” – “This does not constitute illegal border crossings.” [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: hundreds of thousands?- Oh, my God!]] The Constitutional Service of the Federal Chancellery has: ‘In the case of all measures taken by the authorities in connection with the emergency situation, the principle of proportionality shall be taken into account, which means that the most limited means shall be used. The use of state resources has been adapted to the situation. In general, therefore, the Federal Chancellor’s Office assumes that the state actions taken in the course of the emergency were in conformity with the law.” [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz:...he bought the asylum seekers sausagesmemmeln – two years of ports!]] I would therefore ask you, in the future, perhaps to take the appropriate means provided in the Constitution by the wayside, namely those where one can express one's own political will – in this case, the better way of making a distrust proposal. You might have been able to criticise or explain here how you would have dealt politically with the approach of the Federal Government, namely whether Mr Klubobmann Strache and my previous speaker would have supported the use of arms force against the people fleeing from war confusion and political persecution, i.e. children, women, mothers, what this Federal Government, for humanitarian reasons, has not rightly done. [[Abg. Deimek:... each tow goes free!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] By the way, I think it is politically objectionable if, instead of politically arguing and presenting alternatives, one aims at the subjugation of criminal acts and thus not only acts in a silent manner, but also in a bad way to the reputation of the whole policy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Darmann.]] I therefore believe that your group's approach is also condemnable. [[Abg. Deimek: This is the invitation to...!]] I would like to sum up once again: I consider your approach to be in substance, as well as for formal and legal reasons, to be false – by the way, by the way, also harmful to human rights, cynical and general policy. On the contrary, if we want to discuss politically, we must do exactly what we discussed at the hour of Europe. There is no legal, constitutional and political way of doing so.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e22210	Mr Hagen has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e22231	Mr President. High house! Mr Schieder has spoken here of emergency situations. Mr Schieder, I think it was perhaps an emergency situation for Chancellor Faymann because of the Vienna election, because if we look at the whole thing now, we see that it was already very politically motivated. We remember: In the run-up, Mr. Chancellor Faymann has always allowed Hungarian Prime Minister Orbán to judge how terrible his refugee policy is. After Angela Merkel had the call regarding open borders shut down, Mr. Chancellor Faymann immediately followed the same track and said that Austria is opening the borders – and that is not an emergency for me. What did Orbán do? – He has responded and, of course, has thankfully placed the refugees at the Austrian border. Then it was really an emergency situation – but only then! [[Abg. Arbitrators: I've spoken of relief!]] That is why I say that at Chancellor Faymann it was a politically motivated thing, so we will agree with the FPÖ's request concerning Chancellor Faymann. [[Call the SPÖ: “surprising”!]] It was then a kind of thing for the Minister of the Interior – I am not saying the bad word “rape”. She couldn't help it any more after Chancellor Faymann sent this signal and sent all the refugees to the border. What would she have done with the few police officers available there? That is why I do not find it justified and, in the case of the Minister for the Interior, I do not find it politically motivated. At Chancellor Faymann, however, I see this very well, which is why the Prime Minister's loan in the case of Chancellor Faymann is going well. In the case of the Minister of the Interior, we will not give our consent because it was no longer soluble any more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e22280	Mr Klubobmann spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e22301	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The question of asylum is actually already busy with us all day long. There are some who are looking for solutions – the government parties, partly with the support of the opposition – and the others who are reluctant to change political coins. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] I hope that the Federal Chancellor will succeed at European level today, because we need more speed at European level. That's where we agree. [[President Bures takes over the presidency again.]] I am grateful to the Stronach team that you are now differentiated: Here in the country, the Minister of the Interior is really trying, day and night, to meet this huge challenge seven days a week. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] She is one who tries with her team to channel this flow of refugees to the best possible extent. The police have been mentioned, and of course also the many volunteers. The FPÖ – I suppose Secretary-General Kickl has set the line – says: It is better for us to re-ignite the fears and concerns that exist in the population. [[Call the FPÖ:Well, the worries are already...!]] The second point is to evaporate and adapt. Sometimes you pass border crossings. Then you have to leave aside a Member or a Member. The last cross-border crossing, Dr. Winter, is no longer here. But that doesn't stop you from holding on exactly to this course. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] - Yeah, you're exposing yourself here, I'm telling you. In reality, the matter is not at your point of view. At the point of view is easy for you to change political change. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hauser.]] If, as a result of the uncertainty of the population, such a group gets a certain amount of strength, then the question is whether this is a contribution to the governance of your group. [[Abg. Mölzer: Jessas after!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] You have to ask this question yourself. The ministerial support falls exactly into this category: evaporation, adaptation. [[Abg. Neubauer:... at the People's Party!]] You know you don't succeed. In fact, they remain in the political currency exchange facility, and they do not come out of this currency exchange facility either. For using this instrument is immeasurably overlaid. You know – and you have lawyers in your ranks – the Schengen rules. In Article 5(1), point (a) of Article 5(1), the following paragraph is added: 4 of the Schengen Border Code is clearly defined that a Member State that does not fulfil one or more travel requirements – the possession of a passport, the possession of a visa – may very well allow third-country nationals to enter its territory for humanitarian reasons. If refugee flows from war zones are on their way, then there are clearly humanitarian reasons. It also follows for me that the border control bodies were allowed to allow entry and that entry was not illegal. The Minister of the Interior has not acted unlawfully in this exceptional situation, which has already been addressed. That is why I say to you: This ministerial loan will go empty. You know that. But you have what you want again: A evasion of a member of the government. The Minister of the Interior really doesn't deserve it. [[Call at the SPÖ: And the chancellor neither!]] It is for me because of what it is doing in employment, which it creates together with the national leaders when it comes to creating quarters, an example in the government. I hope that our Federal Chancellor today will be able to see the European Union moving forward a step further. I've already said it today: We can only solve the problem at European level. In fact, we are also suffering, especially the Minister for the Interior. It's a shame that you're so confused and that you're putting the Minister of the Interior at the Pranger. - Shame!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e22405	The next item is the speech by Mr Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e22426	Madam President. High house! Originally, I did not want to speak, but Mr. Schieder joined my profession – criminally – in my profession. Mr Lopatka, first of all: The Prime Minister's name will go empty. - That's wrong. In fact, you do not allow the Prime Minister's contribution to be granted by your majority. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Lopatka: Yes, so it will...!]] In other words, you do not want a court, namely the Constitutional Court, to decide on the subject matter of the ministerial credit. They're trying to get them out of here. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Lopatka.]] The Prime Minister's name is not empty. The request of the liberals will go empty because of your majority. This is something other than that the Prime Minister's loan goes empty! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Schieder! Now on the question of emergency: I know a lot of people, mothers who have done something wrong because of an emergency situation, because the children in Austria have suffered from hunger, who have violated the law. They've been sentenced. The emergency situation may have been mitigating, but the crime has nevertheless remained. We're coming to another point now, what you're going to put, what you think: They seem to believe, in fact, that we liberals believe that the registration at the border – passport checks, ID checks or the like – has something to do with hunger. [[Abg. Arbitrator: I have nothing...!]] Keep apples and pears apart! That would really be something intellectually meaningful. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Faith You really think we'd watch liberals if women, children, men were to starve at Austria's borders? Just because we say that we would also like an ID if people came to our country to hundreds, to thousands, to hundreds of thousands? - No! It's powerless. This is also the knowledge of criminal offences. I don't know if you were personally involved in the decision-making of the Foreign Police Act. But in any case, your group has decided to do so. § 120 of the Foreign Police Act is quite clear. One thing to conclude: I will pick out your argument on the weighting of goods in the aid for people from the Stenographic Protocol. I will distribute this to all Austrian law enforcement officers, so that they will have a proper argument when it comes to the emergency situation in the future tow processes. There are condemned tugs in Austria, who have done nothing but illegally drive persons into Austria – three, four, five people – who bought sausages. The big tug said: Know what, you can also buy a sausage cream – around 20 €. They went to prison for months, they've been locked up. They have been punished. Their argumentation is the argument for every towing process in Austria. Your legal opinions, which you have quoted, will then be obtained as evidence. Thank you in the sense of legal care in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e22513	Mrs Maurer, you are the next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e22535	Madam President. The Minister is no longer here. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear viewers and spectators over live stream, on screens! I gave my last speech on the topic of refugees a little more than two months ago, namely, on 1 January. September. That was a day after the great demonstration “Being human in Austria”, in which over 30,000 people in Vienna demonstrated for a decent asylum policy and against the unbearable conditions in Traiskirchen. It was a day after civil society built up support structures for the people who came from Hungary at the railway stations in Salzburg, Linz and Vienna. The Hungarian police have previously very suddenly allowed refugees in Hungary to climb trains to Austria and Germany. I would like to remind you a little of the framework conditions that preceded the decision of the Federal Government to open the borders. I would like to remind you of the pictures and videos of the untold human rights violations that have come to us from Hungary. I would like to remind you of the train that the Hungarian government sent in the wrong direction after first telling the refugees that this train would go to Austria. I would like to remind you of the so-called food issue in which Semmellings – sausages, cheese smelting – have been thrown into a lot of refugees. This has looked rather like animal feed than food. I'd like to remind you of locked kids behind bars. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: You got a little confused!]] I would like to remind doctors who have reported and alarmed the very fatal health conditions in Röszke and the other border crossings. I would like to remind you of these conditions which have been described by NGOs such as Human Rights Watch as horrendous. For these reasons, thousands of people have also come to Austria and Germany on foot, in order to escape these conditions. In this situation, the government has made the only right decision to open the borders. Mr. Strache, you're back now. Complaints in handling Austria's refugee situation is not that the borders have been opened. It is indictable that refugees are still homeless in Traiskirchen and that it has lasted forever until the border crossings in Nickelsdorf and Spielfeld have been partially built up. It is irrelevant that the supply of refugees also depends significantly on civil society in Vienna, that people bring private donations to food, toothbrush, toothpaste and so on. Only with the help of civil society can this support be maintained. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: What does one have to do with the other?]] [[Abg. Stefan: Even if that is true, it is not an argument!]] In Austria's refugee policy, there is this inconceivable discussion about a fence, about structural measures. I've read it now, it's become a mesh wire fence. The message of the Federal Government is: We can't do that. That one of the richest countries in the world says that we don't do this is embarrassing and pathetic. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: There are even greens who say that!]] Mr. Strache! These are the things that are worthy of the government's refugee policy, but certainly not the opening of the border.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e22623	The next speaker was Mr Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e22644	Madam President. Mr Stefan! They have said that there are two different areas of legal action: on the one hand, the ministerial credit, on the other, the indication of abuse of power. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Professor Fuchs – you have certainly already read this – has clearly told you why there will be no know-how. The laws that were made at that time obviously are not suitable for the present situation, at that time they were not intended. There are also human rights and international obligations. Therefore, it cannot be assumed that there is knowledge of illegality. – So much for the abuse of office, but at the end of the day, of course, the courts decide. There are three points on the ministerial basis, why, in my view, this is not correct. Whether the Prime Minister's name goes empty or not, we will not agree to this either. One thing we have already heard, this is the matter with the Schengen Border Code, which is directly applicable to and for itself. It is clear that, for humanitarian reasons, entry can be permitted accordingly. Second reason: I mean, you have to distinguish between the question of entry and transit in the Foreign Police Act. On entering, I am already convinced that in fact it was simply not possible otherwise and that the weighting of the legal goods is quite clear. The lives and health of refugees are clearly in the foreground. For transit – this is the last point – you can say: Okay, maybe not in that case, but here the know-how, which is also in the FPG inside, plays an essential role. In that case, the Federal Government should have known that these refugees were not allowed to enter, but that was only knowingly – that is to say, one is certainly convinced – because it is not possible to register them. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] It can be criticised that registration was not carried out, but even if the Federal Government or the Minister of the Interior had known that, it would have been the weighting of the legal goods. In any case, it is in the sense of the refugees and the lives of the refugees that they do not simply get on the road and walk along the highway. This also protects according to their lives. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Are we talking about a weekend or months now?]] That is why it was obviously necessary, and that is why the Prime Minister's contribution, as you have brought it in, really does not do anything.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e22692	Next, Mr Wittmann is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e22713	Madam President. High house! I would like to refer to the arguments put forward by some of my colleagues. First of all, I find it totally inappropriate that we have political conflicts on the criminal law path. [[Call the ÖVP: I can't do that!]] In a situation where the population is already divided apart, pouring oil into the fire, I think it is a process that is socially unreasonable and blatant. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] There is a political debate here and not a criminal court. One does not bind the population with one another and separates the population. That's a bad example, and that's bad. The second story concerns the relevance of criminal law: A justified emergency situation is given if a higher-quality legal asset is given priority at the expense of a lower legal asset. [[Call the FPÖ:... Legal property of illegal immigrants!]] What does that mean for those who are always quick to deal with criminal demands? – That means that we have on the one hand the legal assets of life. [[Abg. Stefan: Control doesn't kill!]] On the other hand, the questions are: How do you slow 10,000 people down on a border when they push to the border and only 50 or 100 police officers stand there? [[Abg. Blow: Control doesn't kill!]] Even if there are 1,000 police officers there – how do you want to slow them down? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schimanek.]] What is the proportionality of your drug? How about the proportionality of your drug that would have to be used to cope with this quantity? That would necessarily only happen with force of weapons. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] I consider it truly objectionable to the formal conditions of the Foreign Police Act... [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Schimanek and Mr Walter Rosenkranz.]] – Towing is not for discussion at all. Mr President, I should like to thank The ridiculousness of the argument is insurmountable. Towing requires pay. Tell me when the Federal Chancellor or the Minister of the Interior got money for it! [[Call the FPÖ:The ÖBB!]] It is inconceivable how naive and foolish you argue! [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] Where's the fee? I just hope that Austrian law enforcement officers get their call. Then you'll get the invoice, they'll deal with you. This is ridiculous, my colleague. Where was the payment given? [[Call the FPÖ: This is your performance!]] The next story is: On the one hand there is a foreign police breach, on the other hand On the other hand, the measure would be: Weapons. There is the consideration of the property... [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: No, that's not true!]] [[Abg. Neubauer: This is your opinion!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] If you want to pour oil into the fire like a part of this house, the weighing of the property is not a problem for you. But for every normal-thinking person, the balance – here life, there arms use – would be quite clear. [[Abg. Street: Where did Hungary shoot? When you're in control?]] I am glad that I belong to a party that has opted for humanity and humanitarian aid. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] I think it's really objectionable what you're doing here. They put something in space that would only be manageable with the use of force of weapons. You know that, and you can't deny that you mean that. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Why With Armed Force?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Darmann.]] They then claim that this would have been the task of the state. They don't weigh which people come unarmed without a chance to live. These people would be treated like that. I think that is objectionable, morally unstable, and ultimately a division of society. This is not appropriate in this case. [[Abg. Darmann: This is stupid! They're safe in Slovenia!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] It is precisely the same problem that I have already mentioned. According to Schengen, it is possible to grant a humanitarian stay, even if the conditions are not met. The apologizing emergency situation is probably due to the fact that the higher legal value of life in transit is in no relation to an administrative violation of the Foreign Police Act. [[Abg. Darmann: This is Europe, a Member State!]] [[Abg. Blow: A control doesn't threaten life!]] With regard to the third legal question you are attacking, namely tow, which requires pay: [[Abg. Strache: An airport control doesn't threaten life either!]] [[Further calls to the FPÖ]] You don't even believe that! I consider your entire argument to be ridiculous, humanly reprehensible, and morally very worrying.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e23003	Next, Mr Magistrate. Schrangl in word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e23024	Madam President. Unfortunately, no one is there from the ministers addressed, neither the Interior Minister nor the Federal Chancellor. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] – You can speak later, it is Usus in this house that you speak here at the speaker’s desk, then it’s all right. Mr Wittmann. The 10,000 people did not come at once. It is not true that they stream to the border at once. That's less. I don't know what passport controls are supposed to be inhuman either. If you say that towing requires pay: The ÖBB now require € 15 million for this. [[Abg. Matznetter:... Railway ride!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] It is not surprising for me that none of my previous speakers is entitled to a justification for legal relevance against the statements made by the liberal constitutional speaker. Harald Stefan or the allegations of the facts of the Freedom Party could explain for a very simple reason: [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Matznetter]] There's no one. There is no legally standardised justification for the conscious non-implementation of controls and the intentional omission of the execution of the Foreign Police Act. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The Foreign Police Act clearly regulates the legal entry of foreigners: A valid travel document and a visa are needed for the lawful entry into the Federal Region (...). [[Intervocations with ÖVP and Greens.]] Only citizens of the Union and Swiss citizens are excluded from this visa requirement. So if, as all my previous speakers emphasize, most of the travellers come from the war zones of the Middle East, the violation of the Foreign Police Act is definitely obvious. I would also like to comment briefly on the accusation of the fact that border controls are not possible and to show the Austrian people the hypocrisy of these arguments. [[Abg. Matznetter: Shrewd...!]] We remember the "Pizzeria Anarchia" in July 2014 in the 2nd edition of the "Pizzeria Anarchia". Wiener Gemeindebezirk. According to the Federal Ministry, 1,400 officials were in service at the time. – We remember the pictures in the “ZiB 2”, as five police officers, left alone by politics, tried to stop several hundred asylum seekers or mass immigrants at the border. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scherak.]] [[Abg. Wenninger:... Masses!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] In addition: If you say that there are too few police officers, then there are still – and this is what our Constitution provides – the possibility of the federal army being picked up, not enough policemen should be available for such a long period of time. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] Why, ladies and gentlemen, is it possible at airports, at every football stadium and here in Parliament, last 26 years? October to control several thousand people a day, and why should that not be possible at Austria's borders? – Please explain this to us, especially the population, because it is waiting for an answer! [[Accompaniment with the FPÖ and the Abg. Lintl.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] Humanity can also be taken into account in the case of precise control, because the humanitarian care of those waiting in the border area can be carried out in spite of control, perhaps also with the countries close to the border. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Article 142 B-VG provides that the accusation before the Constitutional Court for violation of the law of a decision of the National Council, which is referred to as the ministerial annex, is required. [[Call the FPÖ:Right!]] Let independent dishes decide! Or are you afraid of their decision? [[Abg. Arbitrators: Neither nor!]] - Well, please: Accept, and let an independent court decide! [[Abg. Arbitrators: Neither... nor...!]] And if you don't believe me that this procedure has a legal basis, then you might believe a former dean of the Vienna Faculty of Law, Professor Heinz Mayer, who last appeared in the "ZiB 2" of 9. November literally said: “The laws continue to be in force; they are not implemented by the authorities, that is illegal, not a question.” [[Accompaniment and hö-runch at the FPÖ as well as acclaim of the Abg. Lintl.]] Be aware of one more thing: Even if you vote against this today – the population will give us a right.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e23215	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 13: Proposal from the Constitutional Committee to take note of its report 878 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we come to the vote on agenda item 14: Proposal from the Constitutional Committee to take note of its report 879 of the supplements. In turn, I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this sign to do so. – This is also accepted by a majority. [[21:25:14]] 15. Point Report of the Transport Committee on the Government template (841, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Railway Act 1957 (870 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e23279	This leads us to the 15th place. Debates of the European Parliament There was no oral reporting. I welcome Mr Stöger's Federal Minister and give the floor to Mr Willi as the first speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e23306	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schrangl, if you quote Professor Mayer, please quote him completely. I have heard the interview, and you have missed out on what Mr. Mayer has just said. - Point one. Point two: Mr. Minister, you can appreciate yourself. Fortunately, you have missed two extremely unappropriate debates today. One was on the topic of refugees, set up by the Freeman and the Team Stronach. [[Abg. Stefan: Degrading language...!]] I sometimes wonder if the honourable Member is clear here that Austria has signed the European Convention on Human Rights. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schrangl.]] I've become clear to you today: Many of you are not aware that the European Convention on Human Rights has been in force in Austria since 1958. [[Congratulation with greens and SPÖ.]] Fortunately, you have also escaped a urgent request from the Stronach team. You know, Franz. Strohsack has emigrated to Canada as a prominent economic refugee, and yet the Stronach team manages to make a urgent request in which the whole refugee theme is again widely celebrated. [[Abg. Strache: This is anti-Semitic now! These anti-Semitic allusions...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schrangl]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] There you can see how doubling some parties are in this House. But now I come to the issue of railway law. [[Call: Well, thank God.]] [[Call the SPÖ:... Railing, the business refugees!]] – This has to do with the railway because, fortunately, the ÖBB transports refugees, and I am grateful to Mr. Chairman of the Board of Directors for his statements on television; they were clear and clear, and he has well-founded why the ÖBB do so – even though the liberals also accuse the ÖBB. [[Congratulation with greens and SPÖ.]] Minister, now I have to show you something: This is the Austrian Railway Act 178 paragraphs on 100 pages. [[Keeping a document in height]] [[Call the Greens: He certainly knows that!]] This is the Swiss Railway Act [[Keeping another piece in height]] They have 97 paragraphs, one and a half pages, on 70 pages. So you can see: lots of paper in Austria, much less paper in Switzerland. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] The railway in Austria has about the same large railway network as the railway in Switzerland. The difference is just: In Switzerland there are 23 railway companies on a normal track and 38 on a narrow track. With us, almost everything is ÖBB, and then there are some regional and private trains. And now you are presenting us with a new Iron Railway Act, a novel that, in turn, includes 50 pages, i.e. a pile of paper, a pile of paragraphs, and the implementation of an EU directive is behind this novel. - So far, so good. We of the Greens want the railway industry primarily to serve customers, so: a lot of offer for our tax money. They now use the following means: Fortunately, they introduce the integrated cycle schedule, a good story – in Switzerland, by the way, for quite a long time – that at certain nodes trains come together from all sides, that people change and that five minutes later the trains continue in all directions. This makes travel easy and fast. The EU Commission's intervention required that the original proposal did not create a purely ÖBB template, which is already blamable enough. So I'm still saying, The law – with all due respect for the ÖBB – has a strong ÖBB painting. The second thing you solve with it is non-discrimination-free access to the railway infrastructure. I would now like to point out to you, on the basis of two examples of text, how problems are solved in Switzerland and as in Austria. In Switzerland, it is said – I quote – that: ‘The infrastructure manager shall grant the railway undertaking non-discrimination-free access. In granting access to the network, branched passenger transport is a priority. connections within a coordinated transport chain of public transport shall not be broken." It also says: ‘Network access on a local and temporary route (trasse) may be requested from any undertaking interested in the implementation of rail transport.’ Last sentence: ‘Trains may not be sold or transferred to another undertaking.’ For the same content – and now I'm saving you time and time – Austria needs so much text – and then it's still diffuse. [[keeping a densely described A4 page in height]] That means: many sentences, many filling words for the definition of the same, with a big difference: In Switzerland it is quite clear, with a few words, what matters; in Austria it is long and fun. That is one of the reasons why we reject this law. The second reason is: The Rail Control Commission, an independent authority, is being weakened, because a certain part of the law provides for a procedure where you, as Minister, can go beyond the Rail Control Commission. You have justified this in the Committee by saying: If competition goes against safety, turn on. However, a Rail Control Commission will always follow the principle of safety against competition. That means it doesn't need your intervention there. My suspicion is that this is a back door – I don't think it is you, but some of your officials – so that the Ministry can rule into the Independent Rail Control Commission. And one last thing: Infrastructure charges are provided for. I say that infrastructure charges are good if they make the same thing comparable. There would be the possibility of introducing environmental criteria, but there would be no explanation. This means, for example, that if trains drive more energy-efficiently, it should be an advantage if motor vehicles come out with less electricity than lured trains, this should be an advantage. Or: If a liquefied train exploits the rail network more because the heavy locomotive has everything to wear than a motor vehicle, it should be shown in the rail usage charges. – Just such approaches are missing. Therefore, Minister: I think the effort was there, it's a lot of text for relatively little solution. For all these reasons, we say no to this template. I can only recommend: If you make the rail country number 1 in the EU number 1 in Europe, we will be better than Switzerland! That would be my wish.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e23438	Mr Heinzl is speaking as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e23459	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Estimated colleague Willi, dear Georg, you allow me to be the first to deal with Austria, with the Austrian railway, because I am the firm conviction, even when compared with Switzerland, we are on the safe side, that is to say, in terms of the Austrian railway. Austria is the country of the train drivers, you spoke to it. In no other EU country do so many people travel by rail as we do in Austria. That's our opinion. In concrete terms, ladies and gentlemen, every Austrian and every Austrian travels 45 percent more by rail than the average European, and the trend towards railing continues. In addition to the well-developed infrastructure, one reason for this is certainly also the extremely favourable price of travel – also compared to Switzerland, colleague Willi. A train kilometer costs the passenger in Austria on average 5.9 cents, in Compared with this, the miles in fully liberalized rail transport in England cost on average 15.2 cents – and that in a railway system, I speak of England, which reminds us of a country of development in terms of safety, punctuality and child-friendliness. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Also in rail freight transport, ladies and gentlemen, Austria is railway country number one in the EU. With over 21 billion net tonne kilometers, relative to the size of the country, nowhere else in Europe are as many goods transported on the rail as we in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, you will surely be happy with us: The shift from road to rail not only makes sense for environmental reasons, but transport on the rail is 64 times safer than on the road, and this does not only bring significant benefits in the case of transport of dangerous goods. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! All these positive developments would not be possible without continuous investment in rail infrastructure and without a stable, modern legislative framework that we are talking about today. In the previous year, Austria invested € 210 per head in the expansion of the railway infrastructure, which is much more than any other EU country. This also sets important economic impulses: Investment in the rail sector alone in 2015 ensures more than 40 000 jobs, and rail expansion contributes 0.6 percent to the total economic performance of Austria. With the amendment to the Railway Act presented by Federal Minister Alois Stöger, I have succeeded in adapting the existing legislation to the requirements of a modern, successful and customer-oriented railway system. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to numerous administrative improvements, the new Railway Act for the first time allows for the legal anchoring of an integrated cycle traffic in Austria. For railway customers – and this is the most important – this integrated cycle schedule in the final development means the optimal coordination and branching of all railway connections across Austria – combined with the knowledge that each route is operated in fixed intervals and that annoying gaps in the timetable are removed. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact that Austria has become the railway country number one in the EU is the result of targeted investments in infrastructure and the creation of suitable legal frameworks. With the amendment to be decided today of the Railway Act, the integrated cycle schedule will be laid down by law and thus a further step for the optimal customer orientation of the railway – a step that can only be supported. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e23516	Next speaker: Mr Pock. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e23538	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! As previous speakers Georg Willi of the Greens have already mentioned – I will focus on two topics – we will not agree with the proposed novel. There are two relevant reasons for this. Mr Minister, I have not yet quite convinced you, but you know that I am a great fan of diversity and therefore also a great fan of liberalisation. I would also like to refer to the comments made by Mr Heinzl, who has now compared the relatively state-owned company in Austria with the fully privatized one in Great Britain. There are two major differences: The first big difference is that the British have certainly not done much right – they have then checked, the traffic safety is guaranteed there. But let's take a look at this: We have not made targeted investments, especially in the past, into the ÖBB, but we have poured out the full filling horn. When we take the time from 1955 onwards and see how much we have invested in the ÖBB from then until today, we see that this is more than our total debt. That means you can say: Targeted investments have not been – at least not always –. [[Congratulations to Members of Parliament on jewelry miners and Schönegger.]] Another point that is essential to me is the following: The amendment is based on the fact that it is intended to implement an EU directive. Normally, however, BMVIT does not implement all EU directives. I would now like to address another point, which Mr Georg Willi has already mentioned, namely the question of competition. It is true that there is also a revision of the various charges, usually in just one direction, namely up. It is true, in turn, that only one operator, the fast monopolists, is not affected by the charges, because the ÖBB of course receives subsidies. They receive a certain minimum amount of grants for each route they travel. All other operators do not receive this grant. This will subsidise only a single participant in the market, which will increase. We can't agree to such a novel. Another point that I believe is the area of direct award. We know – and I am not going to mention Switzerland as an example now, Mr Heinzl, but I am going to Bavaria, so that we also have another example – that it is in Bavaria that since 1996, direct allocations are basically no longer used. And I have seen, in Bavaria it is so that 117 million miles of train cost about € 996 million a year. We pay the same in Austria for 80 million miles of train. That means a third more performance for the same money, or, if you want it differently, for less money the same performance that we already have, at the same quality. There is also an EU directive. This EU Directive has existed since 2007. That is to say, the directive has been in place for eight years, and it will not be implemented. The European Commission has repeatedly pointed out that, at least, maximum restrictive awarding or direct awarding should be possible. Both the government programme and the actions of the Minister of Infrastructure point exactly in the other direction and are therefore not in accordance with EU law from our point of view. I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e23608	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e23679	Next speaker: Mr Ottenschlager. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e23702	Madam President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! Today, after long negotiations, we are faced with the amendment of the Railway Law on Decision-making. These are market regulatory adjustments in accordance with EU standards or legal framework conditions for the liberalisation of cross-border rail freight and passenger transport. The State's key strategy for the development of the railway infrastructure will also be enshrined by law and a gradual introduction of an integrated timetable already mentioned and explained to be very welcome. This ensures the optimal linkage of modes of transport. Waiting times for a changeover should be reduced to a minimum. Thus, train driving should become even more attractive by no one to lose more time waiting for the connection train. For us, however, as far as possible non-discrimination-free access to railway routes was crucial for all railway companies, an important premise in the sense of competition and thus in the sense of rail travellers. Due to some controversial passages, as you know, the BMVIT was in criticism with the first draft. It has already been explained here. Finally, with adjustments to the proposal initiated by us, the EIA, in the negotiations, the European Commission has also given its Sanctus – and I would like to stress this, Mr Pock – a recast. That is to say, it has been very probably checked here whether it is in order under competition law. The taxpayers, all taxpayers, build the railway infrastructure with their tax money, with billions of subsidies – but not for a single company, but for the entire company and for the whole economy. Therefore, a competitive market system for rail is essential. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleague Willi! Dear colleague Pock! There is, of course, one thing or another in this novel, where one might have been even better, but the present draft is fine for us, because – and I stress this once again – the EU Commission has carefully examined and given its Sanctus. It is very important to me that we are there in agreement with the European partners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e23745	Next word reported: Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e23767	Madam President. Federal Minister! To speak in the words of the railways: The package is now on track! And it doesn't look so bad that you still have to disconnect any cars or make gross corrections. In principle, I would like to join my previous speaker, Mr Ottenschlager. It is important that the EU's requirements are met, or that part that has been set out by Austria and has been examined accordingly, where appropriate confidence in the rules and the positive application for the market for which customers can be trusted. These are, for example, the rail market regulations, where we first need to define a guiding strategy for development, where it is right, good and reasonable. I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report, for his excellent work and for the work he has done. An important point that was perhaps more important to the Federal Minister than I see him now is the so-called integrated cycle timetable. The EU also sees this as important. But I say: Every company that looks at the customers on its own initiative actually comes by itself on this integrated cycle schedule and tries to reach it. I remember the following – that's not such a big transport company –: The Linz City Works have also once discovered this integrated cycle timetable for the city, the ESG at that time. The Lord, who led the whole thing back then, was Mr. Draxler. When he came to the ÖBB, he also tried to act accordingly there. But it is also important to me that we now address, for example, the certification of drivers, that the whole thing is regulated, and that we have a supervisory authority. We've had this in the field of driving licence for a long time, that's through-judicious, that's true. One might now ask: Why don't you get this on the rail side? But I also ask myself again if we are now returning to the integrated cycle timetable and all that comes to regulation, whether we are not in excess of some parts of this law, and where we are giving much more advantages to those who have the integrated cycle timetable. I wonder exactly if this is not the ÖBB anywhere in passenger and regional transport at once, if that is then any Bader local railways, Zillertaler or anyone else who is: Do they possibly bend the long-distance speed? Or what solutions can then be considered? The other thing is: In the law, we have currently attached the recommendation rules to the regulator. Now you have told us in the committee, Minister, that will only be for the benefit of the customer and no intervention in the market. I would like to believe, however, that I would like to believe much more to you, Mr Federal Minister, if the regulator, as was the case some years ago, makes much more of a matter of its own accord. Right now you get the impression that the regulator becomes active exactly when a company comes from outside. If, as so often, the Western Railway complains or anyone else, the regulator becomes active. If you compare this with other regulators, you will notice that they often become active because of office. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Moser.]] If this brings together Mrs Röhsler, then I think the whole thing is great and then I am happy too. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e23828	Mr Stöger has now spoken. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e23849	Madam President. High house! It is indeed true that Austria has become the railway driver country number one in the European Union. This has therefore become possible because we invest in an infrastructure that benefits people, where we invest in rail on the one hand, but also in vehicles on the other. This means getting people to the desired place faster and with a much better service. [[Abg. Moser: Brenner... invests!]] We managed to travel between Salzburg and Vienna in 2 hours and 22 minutes. That is, I think, a good competition for the motor vehicle on the motorway – that is really the competition of the ÖBB. We have also managed that many people take their daily work path with public transport. For us, it is very important that these people also have good connections in networking with other transports, for example by bus and train. [[Abg. Moser:... Mühlkreisbahn... Linz!]] This causes the overall routes to become shorter, and therefore we have agreed to the integrated cycle schedule and written it into the law. Each larger station will be a so-called tact node. It is about that all local transit connections depart at the same time, whether bus or train. So the customer never needs a timetable for the changeover. All infrastructure measures are geared towards this. This means that we need to invest less and that these investments are also expected to be better. This cycle schedule is to be completed throughout Austria if we set up the southern route 2025/2026. The legislation is non-discriminatory. This means that all modes of transport on the rail can be guided by it. Mr Willi, I must say: In Austria, we have 52 companies that have a railway authorisation, and we have 14 companies in Austria that are allowed to transport in passenger transport. Austria is the most liberal country in the European Union. With us everyone can apply for a concession, and so did many foreign providers. I don't have a problem with that at all. I think that's very important. For me, first of all, it is crucial that we offer good service to the people who will use it. Secondly, it is important to me – and this distinguishes us from SCHIG – in the control or in the market order that it is not responsible for road safety, and only in the field where there is a traffic safety issue, can the ministry intervene. The market-oriented tasks lie with the regulator. That is good, and that is also provided for in this law. I am seeking your support for this law!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e23899	Next word reported: Mr Lipitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e23921	Madam President. Federal Minister! You have referred to the integrated cycle timetable, which is now enshrined in this legislative text. Mr Willi, actually, I don't care if we need an entire page or five sentences, it's important that the customer benefits from it. You said that, too, and that is why I do not understand why you do not agree, because this cycle timetable is something very important. We have already tried it in Austria, then under Mr Draxler, that has been referred to, but it simply has not gone on. But now it is included, and it is also clear within it that those transport companies that offer these nodes are also preferred in the route award. I think it is very important that the customer has the opportunity to get from A to B as soon as possible. This will enable us to further expand our requirement to be the country of the railway drivers – even if these intervals also work. Of course, the development of the rail is important in this planning – according to the question of how many customers I have and what I want to drive. We also have the ÖBB Framework Plan, with over €14 billion for the next five years, which is finally being dealt with in the Committee. I think that's a very important point. I would like to thank the Minister and his staff very much for the opportunity to use this interplay accordingly and to expand the infrastructure in order to allow, whoever drives it, not to be a company, to make an offer that Austrians accept. The law also enshrines access to the service facilities accordingly, and workers' protection is also guaranteed in this area, because I think that is something important. This is a very own story in the railways, and it is precisely this that workers' protection, who always rides it and who works on it, must be secured. I believe that we have taken the right course, and I would like to ask everyone to agree with it.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e23963	Next speaker: Mrs Himmelbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e23984	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The cycle schedule has been discussed several times. There are already further preparations in the federal states. This is an important measure to make public transport more attractive for commuters, because it simply reduces waiting times when travelling, but above all the total driving time, because it will be a synchronization of arrival times and departure times within the train, but also the buses. I believe that precisely this point, the attraction of public transport, creates an incentive to change from car to train, to bus, must be a very important objective for all of us. However, there are other measures that are important to make public transport more attractive. I would like to address two issues here as a technology speaker, but above all as a young speaker. We also discussed in the Committee the framework plan of the ÖBB for the years 2016 to 2021. One point that concerns me in the function as a technology speaker, but which is also within the meaning of the broadband development strategy in Austria, is the connection of the railway to the mobile data network. Mr Minister, I very much welcome the fact that, together with the telecommunications companies, investments are being made in order to ensure a continuous mobile connection of certain sections of the railways, which are available not only to the ÖBB but also to all railways. This is important for the commuters, because of course they want to make the most of the time – whether for the private sector or for work, for learning to prepare. Unfortunately, God’s plans, presented by you, mainly include the urban area, must be said. There are a lot of people on the road, that's quite clear. But in the light of the broadband strategy, it is important for us to invest especially in those regions where broadband penetration is not yet the case, especially in rural areas. When commuters from rural communities travel to the conurbations, they naturally spend more time on the train and want to make use of this time. It would therefore be useful to extend this measure to the rural regions. Last but not least, the youth policy issue: In the sense of attraction, of course, it is also about the leistibility of mobility. This concerns young people who are still in training very much because the financial possibilities are not given to the extent. With the Top Youth Ticket, a possibility was created for students and apprentices, but what still stands out is a price offer also for students. Mr Asdin El Habbassi and Mr Katharina Kucharovich have already tabled a motion for a resolution in April. My request is on She is the Minister for Public Transport, who, of course, is always in conversation with the transport associations: Please also work to ensure that there is a tariff offer for students in the sense of the feasibility of public transport mobility! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e24033	Next speaker: Mr Hell. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e24054	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! As the last speaker on this item on the agenda, I should like to sum up the facts once again. In principle, I would like to say that I am sorry that the Green Group and the NEOS cannot or do not want to vote in this House, because I believe that a lot of content, which is also the content of these groups, is included in this novel. The competitor on the Westbahn has also made a press release, which also states that this company is in principle satisfied with this draft law, and in fact it has only noted two points where he considers that changes should be made. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Overall, € 14.6 billion will be invested in rail infrastructure through the new ÖBB Framework Plan in 2016 to 2021. This also significantly increases the performance of the rail for people and the transported goods. This investment programme, which is also part of the Government Convention, and the revision of the Railway Act to be decided today, will enable passengers to gradually introduce the already mentioned integrated cycle timetable. This makes Austria one of the first European countries to have written it in a law. The railway infrastructure undertaking shall be entitled to define the required road capacity for the operation of the traffic in the terminal stations, as is to be gradually made possible in accordance with the guiding strategy. I think that is an essential point of this innovation. Road capacity shall be allocated under appropriate, non-discriminatory and transparent conditions. New regulation in this novel will also provide access to the service facilities – this is also an essential point. It has been sought for non-discriminatory solutions, and with this law they have also been found. Ladies and gentlemen! The Rail Control Commission will also be given substantial new tasks in the future. For example, it is necessary to supplement the power of the Rail Control Commission to ensure that it is not only the only national regulatory body but also its own decisions and that it receives administrative penalties in this regard. A key element of this innovation is also the supplementary provision concerning the certification of drivers of locomotives and trains in the EU rail system. This is about safety and the improvement of quality in training. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I can ask you for your approval of this novel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e24115	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall come to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 841 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. - That's the majority. The draft law was also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Pock, fellow Members, on the restrictive award of direct public transport. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. [[22:04:28]] 16. Point Report of the Committee on Transport on the Government template (845 D.B._Other Organiser The Federal Act amending the Telecommunications Act 2003, the KommAustria Act, the Federal Law on Radio Installations and Telecommunications Facilities and the Post-Market Act (871 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e24180	We arrive at the 16th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mrs. Dr. Moser is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e24207	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister Stöger, one question: Why work You're not on the customers' side? Why are you not on the side of customers in the telecommunications sector and in the postal sector? Why don't you make sure that there is a better quality in mobile phone calls, when we move fiber optic cables or even in the postal service? Why Make You don't? I can also ask you this question from the ÖVP and also you from the SPÖ: Why vote Do you agree with a telecommunications law that does not improve quality, a smooth implementation of an EU directive? And why do you agree to a change in the postal market law, which provides for a deterioration in the time span in the delivery of letters? Why Make You do? I really wonder. Why are the majority parties here opposed to the majority interests of the population? I'll do it a little bit. Telecommunications Act, the aim is to reduce costs in the broadband sector, and the EU is also protegrating. What are we doing? What's the ministry doing? What does the majority decide? – A 08/15 implementation, where it is only theoretically possible that you come to the customer at 30 Mbits per second, and not real. Our starting point is a higher quality, so to speak, it should go faster in both directions. What does the law not do? – It does not prevent the misuse of tariffs on mobile phones. There is this § 25, we have also made an extra request that clarity be created. If there are any changes to the contract, the client must also have something of it if tariffs are to be increased. We have had tariff increases of up to 78 percent in the mobile phone sector, without any improvements for customers. This change in the contract is unique throughout the contract sector. There is no possibility, except in telecommunications, of one-sided amendment of a contract. With your help, Mr Minister, this is going on and going on in telecommunications. What's left of the customers? – To terminate the contract. Who's doing that? Every time it is a work, every time an effort, you have to calculate difficult models again. It's not being practiced. You could improve this situation, but don't do it. Finally, to the post office: Mr Minister, I will give you a wonderful letter from a person who appreciates that the postal universal service regulation is being complied with, stating that at least 95 percent of the letters will be delivered the next day. That's the state! This gentleman has tested whether what is now law is really being observed. And here – he sent himself letters for a week – every second letter came only the next day and not the next. Where are the 95 percent? And what are you doing with the postal market law now? – They put the threshold even higher at the delivery time. At present, it is so before the law is amended today that ultimately on the fourth day everything must be with the customer if it is non-priority, in the future on the sixth day. So now we have this 95 percent the next day, in the future it's then, I think, according to your bill 90 percent on the fourth day. This is already a decline in the quality of delivery. I don't need to tell you what else is in the arse, because I hope you get various letters. We cannot therefore accept your proposals from a qualitative point of view. You've got to get back to work, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e24268	Next speaker: Mr Kucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e24290	Mr. Federal Minister! Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Dr. Moser, I'm really hard and wondering how to react to your remarks now. I know you from the Court of Auditors as a very committed colleague, who is also intensively concerned with matter, but after your speech I am not quite sure whether you have read today's legislative proposal at all. They've just reflected some untruths. They have criticized the fact that the quality is wrong, but this has also passed the legal papers. I say quite openly, it has with the representatives all the political groups – I may call my colleague, Mr Pock, I can call Mr Deimek – very, very critical, but very constructive and fair debates, in which we have really tried to bring together – you know – different interests to a denominator. If you look at the review process, you know exactly that there are positions that are diametric. I want to come to something that I find quite strange about you now. They ask: Why aren't you on the side of customers? Have you followed what has been said in the media and what some Telekom providers have said? – That we have made a consumer protection directive out of this cost reduction directive, that there is a very massive improvement for consumers! This is totally contrary to what you say. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I'd like to list the points. This one-sided termination period, which you address, has been in force for years. We didn't do anything. Please, what are you telling me here? On the contrary, for new contracts, there is the possibility to terminate after a month, which has been introduced again. In the area of content services, where there have been these strange subscription contracts, where one has downloaded music and has suddenly had several-year or multi-month contracts via mobile apps, there have been restrictions, there have been very massive changes. Quite the contrary, only on the side of customers has really been very, very much done. And then you say it's not about quality improvement!Unknown term type: "%s".? We all here in Parliament have fought together, and – I believe that is something you can be proud of – Mr Lichtenecker has fought very intensively in the field of research and innovation. We have set a very big goal with the broadband strategy, together with broadband billions. We do not want to reach the 30 megabits you have addressed by 2020, but 100 megabits covering the whole – whether you live in the city or in the countryside, equal opportunities for all people! This is about future opportunities, from Lake Constance to Lake Neusiedler until 2020 even 100 megabits. We have initiated this together with the broadband billion. The EU Cost Reduction Directive, which now forms the basis, is the basis for implementation. This is about the fact that in an infrastructure database everything that is available in resources is also used to lay the channel in the excavation work, that of course one can also use these excavations, that at the same time one can draw in fiber optic networks. It is about co-use rights that one can also use mobile masts, antenna masts several times. These are all things that make sense! I really don't understand. You know, I think that this area is really an area in which it is not easy to find compromises, but it really does not go hand in hand that it means on the one hand, it is far too much in consumer protection, and you say then that we are not on the side of customers. We have made a real effort in broadband development, there must be fair opportunities, this is about future prospects. There must be no difference in the digital age, whether you live in the country or in the city. This is a very important basis, I believe, for equal opportunities in rural areas, and this is a very, very important one that we have implemented together. There you can be quite critical, but your criticism goes, I think, just too far, and that is not fair, especially on this important topic of the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e24347	Next speaker: Mr Pock. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e24370	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! Mr Kucher and also colleague Himmelbauer, I would like to thank you in advance for a novel where there has been a real discourse. This is very rare in the Hohe Haus. I have been able to discuss all these points in good time. I know it was also very much praised. The Internet Service Providers Austria, the association of the Austrian alternative Telekom providers were very strong on board. Much has been deliberately rejected, I have also supported it, and many very good changes have been made in the last few weeks. But now there is the great But, that has four letters. There is a very important problem, which I believe I have put on the way to yesterday, 23 o'clock, to the two government groups, with regard to the reduction of regulatory measures. The regulator has the responsibility to ensure competition. There is now a time limit, a expiry period of a maximum of twelve months, so far six months, and the government groups have provided for 12 months. At the same time, however, there is the discussion in the industry and in the regulator on two key areas: the so-called Carrier Pre-Selection, which should not happen any more at any time – that is the area in which private Telekom providers earn the money, hundreds of thousands of customers – and in the field of unbundling, that is, if someone wants to be an ADSL connection and not a customer at Telekom Austria. A reconstruction is planned in both areas. The recovery is usually useful when the competition is made. There is a market, and the regulator is no longer needed. In the specific case, however, it is different because the reconstruction of regulation leads to a remonopolist. And there is, in turn, a very serious mistake in it, which I blame more on social democracy than on others. They remonopoliscize the market. The proportion of A1 Telekom in some product areas has increased by up to 400 percent in the last ten years alone, so private individuals are fairly thinned. Privately, too, jobs are created, sometimes even more than Deutsche Telekom. Now, however, it is also true that, in the view of the companies concerned, these measures, which can lead to many employees being discharged, need a conversion period of two or three years. Why? – Because these companies need to reinvent themselves completely. You must imagine: There are companies that make 90 percent or 100 percent of turnover in this area, and they say: Everything you've done in the last ten or twenty years doesn't exist in two years! And that's where I said we need a three-year transition period. There is also a judgment at European level – that is also the case with the government parties – where it has been seen that the European side is considered to be the right one for two years. I would take the risk of accepting such a novel if we were at risk of creating unemployed people in just a few years and giving priority to remonopolistion by the A1 Telekom. I have to say one more thing: There is only one more dangerous than a state monopoly, which is a privatized monopoly. For this reason, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I ask for your consent. You have the opportunity to consider it and to vote with it again. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e24441	The amendment has been properly tabled and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e24498	Next speaker: Mrs Himmelbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e24519	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe it is undisputed that the ever-growing penetration of digitalisation is quite an issue, that the increase in data-intensive services is also a topic and that this, of course, also presents us with a challenge in terms of our data networks. In this respect, both at Austrian and European level, the view is that investment must also be made in the development of broadband infrastructure, and a number of strategies have been presented in this respect. I may also be able to put this to the heart of my colleague, Moser: In addition to the definitions set out in the law, the broad broadband strategy 2020 also defines the objectives for broadband development in Austria. The implementation of the directive, which also takes account of this project, is, in any case, intended in particular to reduce costs in broadband development – through better communication, better information exchange and synergies, when it comes to construction work, excavation work that the telecommunications companies can use to contribute to their infrastructure. I think this is quite a way to minimize double-tracks, so that not all roads can be excavated, where a canal network has already been made, but to take advantage of it at the same time. That is the basic principle of this directive. The corresponding infrastructure database and the site to grant the building permits shall be located at the RTR. It makes sense to have that in one hand, so that the existing network, the existing infrastructure in Austria as a whole, is also evident. This is important to us, because it will also be important, in the context of the forthcoming broadband promotion, to invest in the unscathed areas and to know what is going on. As in the previous item on the agenda, we are again talking about the rural area and the fact that it is connected to the data highway. In addition to the implementation of the directives, there are, of course, a number of issues on consumer protection; my colleague Philip Kucher has already mentioned the essential points here. I would also like to thank the Minister for the fact that, in this area, of course, consumer and economic issues always need to be weighed down, because, unlike the directive, it may be possible to increase costs, although the directive says that we want to reduce costs; on the other hand, this should not be reborn again. I do not want to be taken to speak again on the issue of electronic accounting. I also mentioned this in the Committee because I would have taken a more courageous step because we are very often talking about the opportunities and challenges of digitalisation. State Secretary Mahrer and State Secretary Steßl are also negotiating the digital roadmap here, which is also about the use of opportunities. I think it would be... from the time we take the next step in the delivery of an electronic account. There are, of course, also some concerns in return. We have now found a medium-sized approach to business, business-to-business, which is the first step here; and I am quite sure that in the future we will also be able to eliminate fears regarding the private sector, and perhaps add this to the next novel. I am also pleased to see the Committee's unanimity on the fact that discussions are being held with state-owned and sub-state enterprises with regard to the development of mobile data networks. I think it makes sense for us to move forward here and, of course, it is also the public hand that is moving forward. Finally, I would like to refer to Mr Pock's motion for a resolution: There were very many other points in the review process, which were also brought in by the telecommunications industry in particular. We have discussed the expiry period in section 37 very intensively, it is of course not the telecommunications industry in its entirety behind it. What was still important to us for the second reason is the question of European legislation. Your request provides for three years, now we have a subject with two years; this is, of course, a criticism point for us or, of course, is also important for us that there is no legal uncertainty or an abolition. So we have, in any case, decided not to go along with this request. However, I would also like to thank you for the valuable, constructive cooperation, because I also have a personal interest in it, and I am pleased if we do so in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e24584	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Zinggl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e24605	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to focus very briefly on an extremely acute topic at the ORF. This concerns me in so far as Ö1 is the channel I particularly value, and I think this transmitter is at risk in its identity. As you know, the sale of the radio house is on the Argentinian road, and no one of us knows what consequences it will have when the “gold dust of creativity” as the actor Erwin Steinhauer said it so beautifully will be extinguished. It may already be that commercial, economic, bureaucratic interests favour this sale, but that is not all the points we need to take into account. I believe that Ö1 and FM4 are two grown channels whose quality must not be jeopardised, regardless of commercial considerations. It's similar to a plant that's being baptized. Some plants can only grow in a very specific environment with a certain substrate, and when they are baptized, one does not know if they do not let the heads hang and enter. And very similar is the situation here now with the sale of the radio house and the threat to these two stations. I think it is dangerous and also negligent to risk it, because better than it is now, it can not run at all, but worse it can all become. I also know, of course, that these location decisions are the issue of the ORF, the management and the Board of Trustees, but I also know that we here in Parliament have a certain commitment, just as the government, when it comes to emigration and the associated threat to a grown culture. That is why I would like the National Council to decide on the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I hope for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e24665	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e24727	Next speaker: Member of the Harbour ecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e24748	Thank you, Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Don't worry, I didn't send any letters myself, but I am referring to the change in the telecommunications law in principle in the area of network development, and I must say that this change is in itself a good thing, provided, Mr. Federal Minister, it will also be implemented in the same way as it is planned. Mrs Colleague Himmelbauer has already mentioned it: In the future, synergies will simply be used better, and the development of the communication network will be made more efficient. We've heard it before: There is better access to existing infrastructure – this reduces construction activities and, above all, dual tracking and thus reduces costs, hoping that this cost reduction will then be passed on accordingly to consumers. We have access to the minimum information – also very important – so that the potential of certain areas can be better assessed in terms of their telecommunications infrastructure, one can plan more networked, so this is also a real and important step. There is also – I think, the central point in this area – the planned establishment of the central information centre. There will then be a lively exchange of information, which will be implemented as planned, and it can also be done more cost-effectively. Studies say that there should be a cost reduction of up to 25 percent, so this is certainly a good thing for consumers if they then pass on the savings accordingly. It is important, however, what is stated in the 2013 evaluation report. In fact, this change in law should also be the consequence of it, because we see that the supply in Austria with the fixed-line broadband is very good in itself, but the technically adequate connections that are called next-generation access, that is, more than 30 mbit, properly behind. All I can say is that in Austria, according to the 2013 study, we are at a percentage of 69.5 percent, and the worst is – and I am right for Mrs Collaborine Himmelbauer – that in rural areas we have only 15 percent of the net coverage. The comparison with countries such as Romania, where the 30 Mbit networks are already at 25 percent, clearly shows that we need a similar follow-up here. I therefore hope that there will still be a lot of things going on in the rural area. This is also necessary because of the figures, because at least 40 percent of the population of Austria live in rural areas. That is also the reason why we have repeatedly pointed out the importance of this network development by the Freedom Party. It was also one of our proposals that municipal construction projects from broadband billions should be supported accordingly if empty pipes are installed. Unfortunately, however, we did not really discuss this matter, Mr Federal Minister, but our request was rejected very lapidar, and you have just pointed out that there is already this with broadband Austria 2020 without giving us any further information. Mr Federal Minister, we now know that there was an application deadline for this funding by the end of August, we know that in the pot there were €40 million, but we still had the impression that this was an alibi action. Non-communication in this area, including with the municipalities, strengthens us in this assumption. We would like to know – Mr Kucher has already mentioned it – just like to know: Was this money picked up? Were there many applications for this? And above all: What does it look like in the future? I mentioned it earlier: It was a good approach to do that, and I would like to know that it is also being communicated to the municipalities, but, Mr Federal Minister – and here we are taking the freedom to speak – if subsidies of € 40 million are paid out, this will result in a difference of 960 million in terms of broadband billion – I am eager to take further steps.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e24803	Next, Mr Stöger, Federal Minister, spoke. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e24825	Madam President. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen in front of the TV screens! This change of law is primarily about an improved service for the customers of telecom facilities. It is a question of having the opportunity to achieve better broadband connections. This is a very crucial question for economic policy. This law is necessary for us to be able to expand broadband with appropriate cost reduction, and it is also necessary for us to be able to provide the local authorities with appropriate funding if they are engaged in emptying. I can say clearly to Mr Hafenecker – thank you for this question too! – what we want to do in broadband development. First of all, we want to use this € 1 billion step by step to ensure that the companies dealing with telecommunications in Austria once double or triple these broadband billions so that we can trigger such an investment boost in this sector. If we want to do so, we need the approval of the European Union. We are currently in the phase where the Commission has not yet released these funds, but we have clearly said that we want to re-establish these billions by 2019. in. And on the day we have the Okay of the European Union, we will also inform accordingly. What are we gonna do? – First of all, we intend to offer an area program so that we can get into the surface with glass fiber. – This is the first important point. Secondly, we intend to strengthen the existing structures – for example, transmitters for the network, for the radio network – by connecting them by implementing this so-called training programme. That's what we want to do. We have already started third – that was possible – to offer the communities € 40 million. It has applied for the hundred congregations, the award is just taking place; they will have an empty pipe at their disposal, so that they will reach the goal faster in the congregation. Fourthly, we intend – and this is also very important to me – that we also support applications so that there is also a reasonable application for broadband as a whole. We want to implement that, which is a very clear objective. I am quite clear on the part of consumers, so I said that the notice periods for contracts with Telekom providers must be shortened. That's what we've implemented. We have also said that we want to protect consumers by ensuring that there is no point in investing because no one knows what infrastructure is already available. Therefore, we have told the authority, the RTR, that an infrastructure database needs to be created in order to know that a provider X has these lines available in this region and must also make them available to the public so that they are available to the population. I think this is an important area and it strengthens rural areas. It is also important for us, and this is what we have foreseen in the broadband billion, that we have defined and tested NAT-3 regions, who have not yet been supplied, and in particular in these regions the corresponding funding should be available and must also be picked up by the companies. This leads to a strengthening of the economic location, which leads to a strengthening of the rights of consumers. Finally, and so that doesn't stand in the room like this: We have introduced an additional universal service under the postal market law – and I emphasize that, I say this to the whole population. The previous arrangements relating to letters remain, which must be delivered the next day, which is the previous scheme. However, we have also ensured that a new offer is available, a universal service, which is not so important in writing that you have it the next day. I do not care if I get the invoice from the municipality for the basic tax on Monday or Friday – so if the municipality thinks it can save on expenses for mail through a cheaper price, I think it's right. This is a new offer that we have made possible. There is an additional universal service, and so far we have implemented it, but I can assure you that the letter of love must arrive the next day!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e24895	Next, Mr Bacher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e24918	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! I come from a region that is also called Inner Mountain in Salzburg, and sometimes we feel that this region is very disadvantaged. This is also partly true, especially in the area of broadband development, and this is precisely where this government template, which we are deciding on today, is being carried out. With the broadband offensive of Federal Minister Stöger, we are approaching the better integration of rural areas into the world of the Internet, and this is urgently needed. Since we lack the industry, our region is very dependent on tourism. Especially in connection with this, I hear again and again that we urgently need a fast internet in order to bring our guests closer to our offer and to make it easier for them to book. Last week, the Winter Forum was held in Kaprun, an event attended by the key players in winter tourism. As a guest speaker, Philipp Riederle, a young man, spoke there, who, despite his low age of 21 years, influenced the world of the Internet. A remarkable statement from him was that the Internet knows no distances. New York lies just as far away as Saalbach Hinterglemm, namely, a mouse click. It is now all about time in this area. This is why a comprehensive broadband development in the structurally weak regions is extremely important. This enables business settlements and the creation of jobs that are urgently needed. This government template provides a legal basis for granting investment grants to the municipalities and thus supports the government’s broadband promotion programme. This brings us closer to our goal of achieving a high-performance internet in 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e24959	Next speaker: Mr Ottenschlager. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e24980	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to comment briefly on the postal market law. Mrs Moser, the Federal Minister has already presented it anyway, I would just like to illustrate it once again. It is intended to allow an additional product to be explained in such a way that someone can send a letter that is not fast to reduce the amount of money. I believe that no one can understand that. I would also like to say to you that it is also our task to respond to the changed framework conditions in this area. You know that the post is also a close-to-state company, says: 52 percent about the Republic of Austria and thus the taxpayers. It must also be in our interest, in the case of a declining market – and you know that this may not be different for you or for me, that in recent years we are sending less and less letters; perhaps in our work as a Member of Parliament, but certainly as a private person less and less; I also see it as a businessman that this has completely changed – to respond and also to give this company the opportunity to act accordingly, while at the same time offering consumers an additional product, a cheaper one, but also for businesses, the business sector, the business sector and the business sector. or for communities. Anyway, I cannot imagine what can really be said about it. Maybe you can look at it again and then agree with it with good conscience! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e25019	The next item is the speech by Mr Singer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e25041	Madam President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Strong high-speed broadband networks are an essential location factor and, of course, they are also crucial for operations. Especially for rural areas, broadband development is particularly important. High-speed Internet should be so natural everywhere, in all regions of Austria, as road development, wastewater disposal, waste disposal and all other infrastructure facilities. Ladies and gentlemen! As mayor, I've been asked again and again: When are there ultra-fast data lines in our community?, not from jux and tollery, but because the possibility of Home Office depends on it. Special topics of rural areas such as family and occupational compatibility, transport flows, additional job opportunities, women's jobs, to name just a few aspects, depend on the quality of the Internet. Therefore, the expansion of the high-speed broadband for rural areas is a great opportunity to close the gap between the city and the country. This new law makes a contribution to the cost reduction in broadband development – an important and right measure for me to advance development. That is why I naturally welcome today's decision-making.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e25071	The next item is the speech by Mr Grillitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e25092	Federal Minister! Madam President. Somewhere I have read that broadband development should be implemented cost-effectively. I say that broadband development should be implemented efficiently and in a synergistic way for rural areas. ‘cost-saving’ should not mean offering everything at the expense of rural areas in agglomerations and not in rural areas. Broadband is probably the most essential infrastructure for the future that we can have in our habitats to bring the world into the village on the one hand, and on the other hand our achievements, our ideas, our landscape to the world, in seconds. We need this high-speed data route anywhere in Austria, where we are at home. Mr Federal Minister, I believe this must be really indivisible for every citizen in Austria, because especially the rural regions need jobs, jobs, incomes and purchasing power. [[Congratulations and bravoruf at the ÖVP.]] And that is only possible if we bring broadband to where it belongs, namely in every part of Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e25132	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall come to the vote on the draft law in 871 of the Supplements. Mr Pock, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled an amendment. I shall therefore first vote on the part of the amendment concerned and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted on. Mr Pock, fellow Members, tabled an amendment concerning paragraph 30 in Article 1. If you're right, I'm looking for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law as it stands, and I would ask those Members of the House who are here to vote in favour of it. - That's the majority. Accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report, and I ask that Ladies and gentlemen, who are giving their approval to a positive sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Zinggl, ladies and gentlemen, on the receipt of the ORF-Funkhaus. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[22:46:50]] 17. Point Report by the Committee on Transport on Amendment No 585/A(E) by Mrs Ing. Norbert Hofer, colleagues on the introduction of an acoustic warning signal for electric vehicles (872 d.b.) 18. Point Report by the Committee on Transport on Amendment No 1290/A(E) by Mrs Ing. Waltraud Dietrich, colleagues in the field of mandatory minimum noise for motor vehicles (873 d.a.) 19. Point Report by the Committee on Transport on amendment 1389/A(E) by Mr Georg Willi, colleagues on exhaust scandal: To protect consumers, health and the environment, effectively end and punish fraud in the emission of vehicles! (874 d.a.) 20. Point Report by the Transport Committee on Amendment No 682/A(E) by Mr Christoph Hagen, Members of Parliament, on the termination of the discrimination Inter-identification mark holders by the obligation of vignette (875d.b.) 21. Point Report by the Committee on Transport on Amendment No 161/A(E) by Mr Christoph Hagen, ladies and gentlemen, on the minimum speed of 110 km/h on the track of two-track motorways (876 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e25272	This brings us to points 17 to 21 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Schellenbacher was the first to speak. Please, honourable Member. I'll set you three minutes of voluntary time limit.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e25299	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear ladies and gentlemen in front of the screens and on the gallery! I refer briefly to Mr Hagen's request concerning 'the end of the disadvantages of the exchange mark owners by the obligation of vignette'. I hope, Mr President, you are not angry with me, but we will reject this request. But that is, I think, clear, if there is a better system, and this has been unanimously decided in the Committee that there will be a system, which is already presented on the Asfinag website, called Videovignette. Sorry! I told you this was a good assistant, and the government team thanked this ball and made a good law out of it. So in that sense. To this video vignette: This has the advantage that it will be used parallel to the adhesive vignette. The adhesive vignette can still be purchased and used. The video vignette is purchased online via PC or via an app at a smartphone. Payment is made by credit card or can simply be ordered by instant transfer. The video vignette also has the advantage that the change mark owners, the test vehicle label owners are no longer at a disadvantage, namely that the marking is detected and not the vehicle. And the theme with the annual vignette is no longer given in the test marking, which can no longer be carried. That's why the thing and the driver are done enough. The real-time data collection is also an essential advantage. It is already under test on the A4 – Knot Prater, direction airport. This real-time data collection provides you with the opportunity to display the time of arrival at the airport on an alternate text display, taking into account actual traffic. These cooperative systems also dominate. Computers of police executives can cooperate and detect where a stolen vehicle or a stolen mark is located. All in all, I am convinced that if the tests continue to run this way, the 2018 date can also be held, and I hope that will work that way. Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e25337	Reported as follows: Mrs Hakel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e25358	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, I would also like to refer to the request for an exchange of information. sign owners come to speak: The disadvantage that has existed here so far will be eliminated. I would also like to stress that the current system of the Vignette in Austria was deliberately designed for a link with the vehicle mark or a particular person. It has also brought as simple and time-saving handling as possible and above all a wide distribution of the vignette. This made the vignette system user-friendly, uncomplicated, non-discrimination-free and relatively easy to control. The problem with the change marks – yes, that has passed, but will now be removed. As of 2018, the system will be supplemented by a video vignette, which, unlike the adhesive vignette, will be connected to the vehicle mark. As of the Vignette year 2019, therefore, the double burden of exchange mark owners will be eliminated over and over again. I would like to address two further requests from the opposition. This is, on the one hand, the application concerning the acoustic warning signal for electrically operated vehicles and, on the other hand, the request concerning the mandatory minimum noise for motor vehicles. To this end, I would like to say so much that an EU regulation has already been adopted in 2014 setting out measures for noise reduction. This concerns passenger cars, trucks and buses. This Regulation also contains provisions concerning an acoustic vehicle warning system for hybrid electric and pure electric vehicles. This will come about, and all Member States will have to stick to it. Of course, manufacturers are already allowed to install a warning signal, and the experts also tell us that this is already the case with the electric vehicles. But it will be required by law anyway.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e25400	Next speaker: Mr Willi. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e25422	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! You're always able to surprise me. I am speaking about my request to combat the exhaust scandal and I have expected it to be suspended. - But no, you reject him. That's why I'm amazed because since 18. September, that is, for almost two months, this VW exhaust scandal is in the headlines across Europe. We have practically every day a wealth of messages, just today the news that this exhaust scandal refers not only to VW, but also to other car brands. All countries in Europe are studying and testing, and I have requested that several points be dealt with in Austria, namely to determine the true extent of the scandal, to introduce regular independent after-tests, to implement effective and dissuasive measures against this exhaust fraud and to put an end to the swindling of the exhaust gas tests in 13 points. That's what I thought you're gonna do. But no, Austria is an island of the Blessed, you just sit there and say: Now let's watch! – I find this intolerable in the sense of consumers and in the sense of the environment. Everyone leans back, including you, Minister, and just watch. And the only thing that happens in Austria is from abroad. The recovery action of the affected VW models is from Germany, not from you, not from Austria. I now come to a motion for a resolution which I would like to make in the course of this debate and, first of all, because I am an optimist and hope that you will be even better, and secondly, because we have a diesel privilege in Austria, one of which the Minister for the Environment said on the last committee: It's not to stop. The diesel privilege looks so that in Austria, Diesel gets 8.5 cents less mineral oil tax than petrol. And that, although Diesel has more energy – so you could say: more energy, higher taxes – and although Diesel produces more pollutants, especially NOx. More pollutants, higher taxes – no, Austria is different, diesel is cheaper in Austria. Diesel is cheaper in the EU comparison in Austria by 12 cents per litre. So the one who is particularly harmful on the road is rewarded tax. This is Austrian reality. And what does that lead to? That one third of the fuels purchased in Austria – one third is covered by the word tank tourism – will be processed abroad and massively deteriorates our greenhouse balance. That's Austria, and everyone's watching. I want something to change right before the Paris climate conference. [[Unrest at the SPÖ.]] – The SPÖ does not seem to be interested, it has more important internal consultations. [[Abg. Gisela Worm: Yes, but! I'm listening, dear Georg!]] So that's the point: Just before the climate conference in Paris – although the Minister for the Environment said we have to do something that is not to maintain diesel privilege – the SPÖ has more important to do. I take note of this, but still... [[Abg. Arbitrators: (in allusion to the Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek) But you have to emphasize: unlike Mrs Glavischnig, who listens to “toll”!]] [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] Mr Klubobmann, I am of course delighted that you are present, but you have important internal discussions. I respect this and make sure you listen now! – in the direction of the SPÖ Group: [[Quoted print version removed]] I think it is time to put this sign, at least this one important sign before the Paris climate conference, and ask for your consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e25513	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e25598	Next speaker: Mrs Dipl.-Kffr.Pfurtscheller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e25622	Madam President. Dear Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear viewer! I should also like to refer to the request made by the Greens, Mr Willi and Mr Brunner, concerning the waste gas scandal. The title of this Green Resolution reads as follows: 'Development proposal (...) concerning exhaust scandal: To protect consumers, health and the environment, effectively end and punish fraud in the emission of vehicles!" I think we all agree in this House that it is unacceptable what has recently come to light. It's passed for a long time. I think this is a multi-drug: on the one hand, we are dealing with consumers and consumers. We need more, on the other hand, on the environment and on the Fiscus, because the higher emissions of pollutants would have meant that the people using these cars would also have to pay more taxes, but the taxes will be calculated after pollutant emissions. I am very grateful to Mr Willi for the first time that he has tabled this request – and this is why this issue is debated here in the house – and that he has not mentioned the names of companies. There is one that is now in the focus, but I believe that others do not have a very white vest, especially if you believe the various studies, for example, of the Federal Environment Agency, which have tested and tested all cars that are in use in Austria in a larger number. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] Overall, this issue is a very difficult one. However, we will not agree with Mr Willi's request by the ÖVP because the Greens are attacking Mr. Federal Minister in a rather sharp or almost harsh tone here, and we believe that this scandal needs to be dealt with throughout Europe and, above all, Germany is primarily on the train. Germany and the German Federal Kraftfahrt-Bundesamt have approved these cars, tested them and now they must also test them. The Federal Minister must not accuse himself of negligence or any delay in debt, he has asked for complete information. ==References====External links== On the same day as Germany, the VW diesel cars were called back to the workshops in Austria. A total of around 363 000 vehicles are affected in Austria. The EU Commission, as a guardian of CO2 emissions, has now also appointed the knife to the VW Group, and we hope that at all political levels within the EU and especially in Germany, it will be clarified how many vehicles are really affected and how the further process has to look like. One thing is quite clear: In the future, exhaust gas measurements will have to be carried out on the road. We really have to get away from the previous procedure and insist that these measurements are no longer only allowed to take place in the laboratory. Here, all technical possibilities were used to achieve values that could not be achieved in the normal operation of a car. The damage is very large, the damage to the environment is very large and probably cannot be compensated by the Group. There is, of course, also a great damage to consumers, and there will certainly be billions of demands on the Group. I also think that the Minister for the Environment will break his head, how he will deal with the effects, because, as I said, the environment has also been damaged, CO2 emissions have not been calculated and measured in the right quantity, and the Fiscus has also been damaged. Here, I think, we're going to be busy with the settlement even longer. The only positive thing about this scandal is that such a scandal causes many people to think seriously and, hopefully, it will not be possible in the future for consumers and governments to be deceived and damaged. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e25683	Next word: Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e25704	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I have already been very pleased with these agenda items, because I am very concerned about what is being implemented here. [[Rejoicing]] But in a row. First of all, to the electric vehicles. We all know that they don't make noises and that this may be very dangerous for blind people who want to cross the street, or for someone who might hear a bit worse. It is a very good thing that these vehicles are very environmentally friendly, but the noise scene is missing in road traffic, and this can lead to dangerous situations. This is what the colleague Hakel of the SPÖ has already said: At first, everyone was always against it, now suddenly you are on this road. You see, the Stronach team has good ideas, right ideas, which are then somehow taken over and implemented by the government. There we are already on the second issue, the Vignette on Exchange Labels – a concern which I have repeatedly brought into the committees for several years, even here in plenary for direct voting. So far, it's always been rejected because it's called, that's not possible, they have enough money if they have two or three vehicles, and, and, and. They never wanted to do that. And here, now that Germany was experimenting with the video vignette, Austria can suddenly take over this video vignette. We did not really agree with our proposal, but it was the initial inflammation for it. That means that now people with a change mark no longer have to buy vignettes for multiple vehicles. You can always use such a change mark to drive a car on the highway, and for that they pay the toll. So more justice is coming in now. Our request was already the initial inflammation that the government parties have now taken over. I told the Minister in the Committee that he was slowly developing into my favorite minister because he took over and implemented many initial inflammations from us, and that is a positive thing. Thank you, Minister, for taking the right step here. I'm very happy. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] We will, of course, also agree with our request and, of course, that of the government, because our request was the initial inflammation, has its right and you have now taken over it. He's heading in the right direction. Now I have a third concern, you can then take over and implement it; I will also help you a little. You all know from various discussions here: I have repeatedly called the “air-hunderter” negative, I think it is politically misused. But I am not only concerned with the “air-hunderter”, I also have a problem with the truck-overholing maneuvers that lead to extremely dangerous situations on two-track motorways. Imagine driving 130 km/h on the two-track motorway, suddenly a truck with 80 km/h or 82 km/h shoots out and overtakes another one, two kilometres slower than it does. This, of course, attracts a giant colony, and in the meantime it turns out to be one that does not comply with the traffic rules. This is a very dangerous situation and often causes serious accidents. I've always called for a truck ban on two-track highways. I've always been rejected. [[Call the SPÖ:Who?]] Yes, the government parties! Don't scream, you know it yourself! If you know what you voted for, Mr President. But maybe you don't know. That is why I am now making a request, and I will explain the circumstances to you correctly: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, this proposal has a very clear background. I have here – we will then vote on it – submitted a proposal which provides for a minimum speed of 110 km/h on the second track on two-track motorways. This has the following background: First of all, I want to prevent these Brummi races. - Point one. Point two: The fact that these “air-hunderers” are often abused by many state governments for political reasons – partly there is also an eighty – that on federal motorways, which are designed by the design for 180 km/h and built with federal tax money, the “air-hunder” is often used by the countries for political purposes. I can also give you an example from Vorarlberg: One kilometer after the Arlberg Tunnel, an IG-“Air-Hunderter” is valid. It doesn't know why and why, but you wanted to be there. And this is also the problem in Salzburg, Upper Austria, in Tyrol. Drive through Tyrol at all the 100 km/h zones! I prefer to drive on the federal road, not buy me a vignette, and perhaps come forward. This is a state that is politically motivated, and I want to eliminate that. After all, the Austrian taxpayers have financed the motorways. And because we were just at the vignette: For the vignette I pay a nice money so that I get on the highway fast and fly forward. [[Abg. Walser:... Protection of the population!]] And the countries prevent this by often wilfully taking action – and we have discovered that at the time before the 2013 National Council election campaign, where in Tyrol the measuring stations were said to have had technical defects, where many, many penalties, thousands of penalties, had to be repaid because they had been mistakenly removed. Ladies and gentlemen! I also drew attention to this in a request and then in a question meeting here in the National Council. So the Stronach team is quite clearly the driver's party – right, because you have a motorway to get on this forward, and not to go somewhere around. This may be right for the Greens, where they are in the national governments. I hope that this will be different in Upper Austria now that the FPÖ has the Transport Unit. I hope so. I'll take you by word. That's why I can only ask you: Voices Let us ask you to do this. This matter belongs to federal competence in order not to promote party-political transport barriers. That's why I can only ask you: Voices You're asking for us! We are on the right track, and the citizens in the country outside see this as well, and they support us. And if you do not support us, then at some point the Federal Minister will insist that this is a good idea of the Stronach team, and he will also accept this idea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e25780	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hagen is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e25863	Next speaker: Mr Pock. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e25884	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! My speaking time is very limited, so I take a short look. It was already spoken of by the video vignette. There is one point that has also been discussed in the Committee, which is important for the tourism sector, but which is not taken into account, namely in the field of video vignette or a solution other than the GO box for classic camping cars over 3.5 tonnes. Why are these important for the tourist sector? – These are exactly those tourists who come to regions that are not well developed in the transport sector. They bring the necessary purchasing power. And they are also very flexible. That is, if there is a transport concept in Austria that does not fit the car, then they are going to Switzerland, Bavaria or Northern Italy. We have a gap to which I have made several points. That is why I would like to make the following request today: [[Quoted print version removed]] Two comments on the other parties' requests: We shall reject the Greens' request. To abolish the diesel privilege would mean that there is more... This is the case in the United Kingdom. We agree that, if so, the money must arrive at the citizens. This is not guaranteed by this request, therefore a clear no. And with the Stronach team, we have made the most of our efforts, but we cannot find a request to which we can agree. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e25942	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Pock is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e26028	Mr Stöger has now spoken. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e26049	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! It is my concern, however, to take a position on the issue of exhaust scandal, triggered by a German car manufacturer or by several German car manufacturers. I can only tell you: No type-approval was generally issued for these vehicles in Austria. In this respect, the German Federal Motor Transport Office is the competent authority to act in accordance with European legal bases. We agreed at European level that a common procedure should be chosen here and that the recovery action should be carried out. From my point of view, it is important to point out that what individual car producers have done here is not acceptable in any way. Austria has always represented the position – and I also made this very clear at the last Council of Transport Ministers – that there must be no sluggish handling of environmental standards and that test models must not be laboratory models, but that test forms must be tested in a real-life vehicle. That's what we've always spoken for. This scandal has also led the European Commission to take this position, and it is currently in the discussion between the Council and Parliament so that we can come to this demand as well. That's where we implemented our position. As Minister of Technology, I would also like to use this scandal to ensure that we have a chance. Austria is the country that has developed new forms of drive. We have engineers who have other forms of drive. We are able in Austria to produce the better, the more environmentally friendly engines. And I want us to work together in the direction that other drive systems also have a market chance. As Minister of Technology, this is very important to me. Finally, I would like to point out that it is also important to me to say to the car companies: Consumers must: This is the first time that the European You must not have any disadvantages from these actions. I've always been in this direction. The colleague, Mr Hundstorfer, will do so and will make that clear. I can also assure you that the Group has officially informed us that it will take care of the damage to the Austrian state finances that have been incurred by false tax values. I would like to point this out. This scandal can be used as an opportunity for better drive systems.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e26098	Mr Hafenecker has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e26119	Mr President. Federal Minister! In view of the few times we are still staying, just a few more thoughts on these requests. The request from us to the acoustic warning signals of the e-vehicles has been made precisely because of the need to raise awareness of the dangers posed by these vehicles. I was driving an e-car myself, and when I was driving through the city, I really had to find that pedestrians are very surprised when you come with this noiseless car. I therefore believe that it is right and important to find appropriate rules in this direction. And we want to raise awareness of this and, above all, to ensure that these regulations come faster. What we do not want and what is not the intention of the request is to raise the noise level on motorways and outdoors, but really for the operation in the urban area. At the request of Mr Willi, who is concerned with the waste gas scandal, I was absolutely clear that this is really only a vehicle of greens to get coal from the milk cow of the nation, from the driver, and thus to finance green environmental policy. That was, Mr Willi, quite obviously. That is why we will not agree with this proposal, which is in fact damaging to consumers and the economy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Just a short while to the change marks and the vignette. Mr Schellenbacher has already explained in detail what we are talking about and why we will vote for it. Just one more thought: There is still an injustice, and there is still no change mark of car – motorcycle. We will remain liberals, and I hope, Minister of State, that we can find a solution there too. Finally, at the minimum speed of 110 kilometres on the motorway: Mr Hagen, we will not support this request. I also understand the intention of the request: It's supposed to prevent these truck races. However, I think it is dangerous that – and I think there was an intermediate call from the SPÖ – here, as it were, in the dense fog or in snow-driving 110 kilometres. I don't think that's quite finished. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e26168	Mr Antoni has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e26192	Thank you very much, Mr President. Federal Minister! I would also like to take a brief look at item 19, the motion for a resolution 1389/A(E) by Mrs Willi, ladies and gentlemen, concerning waste gas scandal: In order to protect consumers, health and the environment, fraud in the emission of vehicles effectively end and punish!, give a position. The aim of this proposal is, as explained, to call on the Minister for Transport to ensure the immediate political and execution of the exhaust scandal, says the VW scandal. The aim is to take measures at the execution level which are to instruct the Federal Transport Institute to carry out or carry out regular sample-type inspections themselves, as well as to also use BMVIT for the introduction of the global consumption cycle “Worldwide Harmonized Light Vehicles Test Procedure” by mid-2016 at the latest. To this end, I would like to say that Austria has not yet granted EU type-approval regarding the emissions of such vehicles and also no EC type-approval for such vehicles. Thus, there is no obligation on the part of BMVIT to carry out additional reviews. In the short term, a word on the recalls raised in the application: The recall of the vehicles concerned shall be made by the competent authority which has granted the EU type-approval. In the meantime this has also been done by the Federal Kraftfahrt-Bundesamt. And in Austria, as in all other Member States, the recall is made by the general importers. A pre-information letter has already been sent to the vehicle owners. Finally, I would like to say to the new exhaust test that a world-wide harmonised test cycle, in short WLTP, is currently being developed, which will then bring more realistic test results for emission and consumer measurements. This WLTP cycle will be incorporated into EU law by means of a Commission implementing regulation, and, essentially, from the Federal Ministry of Transport, Innovation and Technology is of course committed to the introduction of this WLTP test cycle. We will not approach the request and reject it from our side. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e26241	Mr Steinbichler has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e26262	Mr President. Appreciate Mrs Minister! Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Hagen has already expressed the views on these requests from our side. Perhaps to colleague Willi: It is very interesting that in this context, in the VW scandal, precisely a nation that produces very high-consumption vehicles, such as Dodge and Hummer – right “environmental” vehicles – is going to start here on our modeling VW. It may be quite interesting to see this aspect in the context of the TTIP discussion, if the companies are perhaps going on together. – This only as a small hint at the edge. Mr President, I think we should not only talk about pollutant emissions but also about what is going on in the tank. We have already discussed today that we are dealing with the Austrian biodiesel of 13 000 hectares of rainforest. I think there is also a question to be asked whether these keywords keep what they promise. And the use of alternative energies up to hydrogen technology, or research in this field, is also to be considered. I think there must be further research and one must see that lobbyism is being held back. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] On the discussion on Air-Hunderter: I think we all experience for ourselves that today, with well-equipped, controlled, audited cars, especially if you drive home after a session like this, you are on three-way, four-track built-up roads on your own and then cannot use the vehicle capacity. I wonder if this makes sense, whether it is about protecting the population or whether it is about bureaucratic obstacles that are not justified. We are clearly in favour of putting this into practice. However, it is not only about taxes and the environment, but also about road safety. Due to a tragic accident in our district last week, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] In particular, in the interests of the safety of our young people, I would like to ask for support from this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e26326	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Steinbichler is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e26406	Next speaker: Member of the Council of Ministers of the European Communities. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e26427	Mr President. Estimated representatives of the Federal Government at the ministerial bank! High house! I think it's already very exciting when the Stronach team speaks of road safety here and submits an application for the minimum speed of 110 km/h. That's really sensational. How do you want to execute that? And above all: How do you finally want to make the penalty? Is this going to be progressive, as it were: The slower you drive, the more you have to pay? – So this is already sensational, which is partly evident. If the background is to avoid emission protection laws that are applied in the individual countries, especially in the area of conurbation centres, then the question arises what was probably the objective of these laws – and that is the air quality. We know we have a problem with the fine dust. We also know, however, that the applications have shown, that there is some problem on the part of the automotive industry. But this will not be solved in the micrograms and with one or another limit, but only if we consider whether we do not come from the fuel-consuming cars, from the combustion engines slowly to the new technologies. This is especially true for the urban area of electric mobility, and here, of course, also the electric cars, in the very first place called. I am also very grateful for this request by the Liberal Group, which points to an important issue in this context, namely the acoustic signals in electric and hybrid vehicles, because this is really a major problem for disabled people in urban transport if they do not hear near cars. However, we must say that some models are already equipped with this, and there is also an EU regulation which is now being revised again, so that there is the necessary protection for all road users. I hope that this technology will continue to prevail, because only in this way will we be able to solve air quality and problems we have in the fuel engines – and not with some control screw, whether diesel or petrol.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e26473	Next, Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e26494	Mr President. Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Acoustic warning signals for electric vehicles, for electric vehicles, are vital for blind and visually impaired people. Electric vehicles are extremely quiet and cannot be perceived due to the engine noise, and this is a major problem for all people, especially for blind and visually impaired people. To increase safety, such warning signals are absolutely necessary. The number of electric vehicles and hybrid drives is increasing sharply. The EU only prescribes such an establishment for new vehicles from 2021 – this transitional period is too long. That's why safety must be worth a lot to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e26518	The next item is the speech by Mr Schmid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e26542	Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! In my speech I deal with the perception of electric cars. The number of electric vehicles on the market is constantly increasing – and this is favourable. Electric vehicles are not, or are limited to, perceptible to population groups such as older people, children and visually impaired persons. The legislator provides a warning signal for electric vehicles from 2021 onwards. This transitional period is not acceptable in the case of increasing registration numbers. Not well perceptible for addressed groups are e.g. electric bicycles or conventionally operated bicycles. However, there is already a requirement for a warning signal for bicycles. It can be assumed that the technology is capable of providing automatic warning signals for electric vehicles as well. An acoustic observability must be retrofitted with a short transitional period of about six months for the operation of already approved vehicles. The safety of non-motorised road users vis-à-vis electric vehicles is a top priority and cannot be threatened by party-political inconsistencies. In my view, therefore, the applications for the introduction of acoustic perception systems should be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e26573	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Vetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e26594	Mr President. Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. A minimum speed control of 110 km/h on the track of the motorway is initially opposed to first of all safety concerns – as has already been said: Should this minimum speed also be observed in fog? Should they be kept by rain? Should they be kept by snow? Whether to keep them in the curve Secondly, Who's going to monitor this? Thirdly, How do you want to punish that? Tacitus said: “If it is not necessary to pass a law, it is necessary not to pass a law.” One can always fail in one's life. There are two Europeans who have left us forever yesterday, who have actually failed in their lives: One was a German Chancellor, the other a French philosopher. The one has made himself strong for the NATO double decision, the other in his books for a defensive democracy. Perhaps the death of these two major Europeans should also be a reminder to us that policies are less in legislative activism, as in this point, but rather that, in view of the situation at the EU's external borders, we should focus on an enhanced security policy and think of the defence of democracy and freedom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e26638	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First vote on the item on the agenda 17: Proposal from the Transport Committee to take note of its report 872 of the supplements. Whoever speaks for it, please give a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Vote on agenda item 18: Proposal from the Transport Committee to take note of its report 873 of the supplements. Who's calling for it? – In turn, this is accepted by a majority. Agenda item 19: Proposal from the Transport Committee to take note of its report 874 of the supplements. Who's for it? – This is the majority and therefore adopted. The vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Willi, colleagues, on the abolition of diesel privilege in Austria. Who is in favour of this request? – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Agenda item 20 vote Vote on the request from the Transport Committee to take note of its report, which is 875 of the additions to the motion for a resolution 682/A(E). Who's calling for it? – This is the majority and therefore adopted. Vote on the resolution on videovignette and alternate marks attached to the Committee's report, 875 of the supplements. Who's for it? – This has been adopted unanimously. (E 113.) President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Who's calling for it? – This is the minority and thus rejected. vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Steinbichler, fellow Members, on the increase of safety in mopeds by greater reflectors and the mandatory wearing of signal vests with reflectors. Who's calling for it? – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on item 21 on the agenda. Proposal from the Transport Committee to take note of its report 876 of the supplements. Who's calling for it? – This is the majority and therefore adopted. Vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hagen, ladies and gentlemen, on ‘IG-Air speed limits on federal roads – relocation into federal competence’. Who's calling for it? – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[23:37:28]] 22. Point Report by the Committee on Education on Amendment 1325/A(E) by Dr Harald Walser, colleagues on modular upper level (856 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e26821	We're coming to the 22nd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Magistrate. Hauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e26850	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In fact, we should have already completed the agenda, because the government parties ÖVP and SPÖ do not want to hold a debate on the field of education in the run-up to the reform of education. It is a mistake for you, ladies and gentlemen, but in the course of the Committee's deliberations, because you were not complete in the vote on the item on the modular school system. You wanted to suspend this item, just like all other items on the agenda, at least 16 requests. As you were not complete, this request for suspension was rejected by 11 : 11 votes. That is why, at the end of the agenda, at 23.40 a.m., we still have a brief debate on education policy – just chance, because the mandates of ÖVP and SPÖ were not fully present. It is basically, I must say quite honestly, a shame that there is no desire to hold a debate on education policy and that all 16 opposition party initiatives have not been able to suspend an initiative just because of a panic, which is why we still have this item on the agenda. [[Abg. Arbitrator: Is there a content or not?]] We have rightly criticised the fact that the government does not wish to have a debate on a reform of education, rather than a debate in the committee with the opposition and a debate here in the National Council session with all of us, after we have experienced enough and piled up over the last few years. That's really a shame! [[Call the SPÖ:Tell us something about the subject!]] That's not a good witness. You do not want to hold this debate! We want to lead them and have introduced 16 initiatives that you all wanted to suspend. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Mayer.]] If you have anything to say, Mr Elmar Mayer, please speak and come out here, but don't steal my precious speaking time with your calls, which I do not have enough at my disposal anyway! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Come out, hold the debate, but don't be so cowardly! They didn't want to have a debate at all! [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] [[Calls of the Abg. Fekter.]] They have even suspended the application for depoliticisation of the field of education. Not even there you have the strength to say: Yes, we want to depoliticize! That would be the most normal at all, but you didn't even put up the power. And you already have to criticize and complain about this in all clarity. I can now quote your party friend Dr. Hannes Androsch, who yesterday gave a big interview to the "Tyrol daily". Androsch was also addressed to the educational reform in this interview. Androsch's statement is quite true. Quote Androsch on education reform: “My hope level is very low. There is no mention of equal opportunities, the promotion of the talented and the support of the weaker. A third of the students in compulsory school cannot read, write and count enough to start teaching. These are the beneficiaries of tomorrow's social assistance. Our education system costs too much and brings too little." Andro-encompassing: “Unfortunately, the commitment of the head of government to the future of our youth and our country to education is too low.” I don't think there's anything to add to it. That's what we've noticed: 16 initiatives have been suspended! Now a short time to the point modular upper level; this is an interesting topic. You know, I'm a student of economic education, was active in the introduction of this model in school, making me experience of it. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] That was not uninteresting, you have to say quite honestly. In this system, however, class associations have to be dissolved – but that is perfectly normal – because courses have to be offered. And these courses are, as at the university, consumed by the students in order to be able to do their final exams. Let us see what is presented in the educational reform at all. [[Calls:Reading time]] In principle, we are not opposed to this modularization of the school system, but there are, of course, still some framework conditions to be clarified in this regard. [[President Head gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e26956	The overall speaking time of your group has expired. Final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e26983	My final sentence: So you would almost have succeeded in not having a debate on education policy here in the House, but just almost. We can discuss a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e27020	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Grossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e27041	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Hauser, you have been talking for a long time, far beyond your speaking time, but you have not said much about the item on the agenda. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is very, very bad that you have let your speaking time pass so useless. We are happy to discuss with you, especially about the new upper level. This has brought a modernisation boost, has further modernised our school system. It is hoped that those who are just to say that they do not think anything goes on in the education system. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Let's take a look at 17th, my dear swan!]] So that's absolutely not true. In particular, through the modular upper level, the education system has experienced a modernisation boost, but a modernisation shift with an eye to which the demands of the pupils have also been received, namely those also expressed in the assessment process. No complete course system is introduced according to American patterns and the class association is not completely removed. The class association also has a social purpose, and the students did not want to take it up completely. So we didn't do that, and the class association should stay the same. Especially in the vocational education schools – and I am sorry, Mr. Hauser, that you have not brought in your expertise – a kind of ‘la carte education menu’ would be detrimental, because, as you know, with the completion of certain teaching units, many professional and industrial qualifications will be acquired. And of course we don't want to destroy that either. What is going on is an extension to the ninth level, and my colleagues, who are teachers, will also comment on this from a pedagogical point of view. So, overall, the system as it has been made makes sense. And we would also like to discuss this with you in the Committee, as well as the requests that have so to speak come from the last of these days. But I am unfortunately missing the speaking time. – I wish you a nice evening!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e27087	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Walser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e27108	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen of the government groups, you have to be pleased that the opposition in a kind of democratic or parliamentary emergency action has allowed us to take the opportunity to say something about it six days before the presentation of a fundamental school reform. I should like to quote the Minister of Education, who today said to the press that on next Tuesday it would be impossible to “do not afford to present something small”. Six days before the presentation of a basic school reform, we can speak here in the House where it is decided to speak only by chance on the subject of school and school reform, at mid-night! That really speaks volumes! I'll tell you in advance: The optimism on our part is low that this leads to a happy end. I should like to point out the example of Vorarlberg, where we have set up a wide-ranging process across parties, where we have discussed publicly and involved the school partners. We have discussed with parents, with pupils and, of course, with teachers, and have then come to a conclusion, presented a reform that is being carried on a broad basis in the present situation. – Mr Rosenkranz is delighted because he knows that the Freedom Party in Vorarlberg has also been convinced and agrees with this reform. So, ladies and gentlemen, you put something on, and then it can be successful. But on how this should be presented here, I must say that there are doubts, great doubts. I can also say a few words about the modular upper level, because it has just been called for. The modular upper level is the right way for Austrian education from secondary level 2. At the time, however, we have already noted in the discussion that a modularization must begin where we have the biggest problems. Two thirds of all repetients are in the ninth level, two thirds of the total upper level. And where are you going with the reform? – In the tenth level. That's really not the yellow from the egg! If there are problems in the entire upper level at the ninth level, we will also be using the ninth level! That's where our proposal goes. That is why we ask you to make this modularization as consistent as it should be, so that it is really a success. However, we Greens today cannot ignore not only talking about the big problems, but also need to communicate to you those needs that smaller groups have in our school system. And this includes, for example, the topic of dyscalculie – besides legathenia, one of the major problems, but unfortunately not really recognized as such. It's about the flaw of the data. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] That would be a step forward. A second major problem, which we have and which is currently in all our mouths, concerns, in part, refugee children, but it also concerns preschool education, so it concerns very, very many people. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Please agree that this will help those affected. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Minister! To conclude: I really wish you all the best for Tuesday. I wish you success, it would be a success for the Austrian children, for the young people, it would be a success for the whole Republic. We are responsible and we are all required to bring this school reform to the stage.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e27230	The two motions for resolutions tabled by Mr Walser are sufficiently supported and are therefore under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e27362	Next speaker: Mrs Jank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e27383	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I'll try to do it soon. There will still have to be sufficient and sufficient discussion on the results of the discussions at the government level to change our school system, on the basis of the reform paper which will become a good one. And so thank you to all those who have worked here. And thank you for the good wishes already expressed in advance. [[Abg. Walser: But then your ideas did not fall down!]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Mrs Jank should already know!]] – Well, I assume that perhaps others here in the house already know something. Certain media reports could be found that your group, Mr Walser, perhaps knows something. But I would like to say something about the proposal in committee. We would not agree to the resolution of the class association and would not have accepted it because it would not be in the sense of the students. In the Explanatory Notes to the Law, it reads: “The students indicated that they would stay in the classroom until the final examination with simultaneous funding instruction and other follow-up or follow-up training. Deepening possibilities, the possibility of voluntary repetition and learning coaching were very supportive.” So the stay in the classroom is desired by the students, and there we will not do anything else. Maybe it wouldn't be that smart. On the modular system or on why this is not already implemented at the ninth level: We also see the ninth level as a phase of habit and orientation. It is a great change, for example, from a new secondary school to a high-level school. At the time, many do not know exactly what they want to do. It is also in the room, if you do not perhaps go to a teaching course instead of continuing to attend the school, which I can only recommend very, very many, because the professional opportunities there are very large. Moreover, most entrepreneurs also come from an educational path that has gone over teaching. And to reduce the drop-out quotas: There will be a number of reasons for a school drop-off. However, the most important countermeasure seems to me to be a proper professional orientation, and we are working on its implementation at the moment. It's in progress, in the seventh and eighth levels. Because then the students are already in the knowledge of what they want to do. I am convinced that we will be able to read out the successes in the next few years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e27433	Mr Klubobmann Dr. Stroll. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e27454	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Estimated citizens! Soon, at midnight, we are devoted to education – so much to the priorities of the government parties here in the House. [[Abg. Arbitrators: ghost hour!]] We are also dedicated to education because an accident has occurred in the Committee, which has already been explained: There was no majority there to postpone a request from the Greens on the Sankt-Nimmerlein Day, and therefore a majority of the government parties had to be organized in order to at least reduce it by rejection, and therefore we need to discuss it here today. We would, of course, come closer to this proposal by the Greens on a flexibilization of the upper level, modularization. It is in the sense of an hourly school and in the sense of the powerful human being that we are increasingly taking a course of adult-age people into self-responsibility, in the design of his everyday school. We will not get a majority for this today, so I use the opportunity to light up some other things. Mrs Minister, if I say flexibilization is a concern for us, then of course we are also already at school autonomy, hopefully a heartpiece of the reform package you will present next week. We don't know what you're going to present. You know, my main concern has been over all those months that you've been involving us. There are about 50 percent elected representatives of the population who have not been involved, because this federal government is not willing or unable to involve us, just as you are not willing and unable to involve civil society better, just as you are not willing and unable to involve the school partners, that is, the teachers, the parents and the students with their representative bodies. I'm sorry. I've been accusing it all the time, now you're saying you're not gonna catch it until 17:00. November with the right or with the detailed negotiations. – Therefore, once again the chance that it will work at least after the 17th. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] That's going to be I hope that you will do so, and that is why I hope that you will be able to reach an agreement here as well. It is also important to us that we use this opportunity of educational reform for an index-based allocation. That would be so important, especially for questions of integration! You know my concerns and therefore another request follows: Motion for a resolution by Dr Matthias Strolz, colleague and colleagues on index-based allocation of resources in the school system The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Government, and in particular the Federal Minister for Education and Women, are invited to enable index-based and student-related per capita funding in the school system. In order to be consistent with the Federal Government, quality objectives are to be formulated, accompanied and controlled. With regard to the current challenges of the integration of students with migration backgrounds, a targeted and autonomous quality budget for integration work at school locations is to be made possible within the framework of an index-based school funding." I hope we do. If it's us on the 17th. There is still the chance that at least Red-Green will try that in Vienna. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] Any support from NEOS if we come here in models or pioneer projects. I'm asking for support.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e27517	The two motions for resolutions tabled by Mr Klubobmann Dr. Strolz are sufficiently supported and are therefore under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e27633	Next speaker: Mrs Gessl-Ranftl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e27654	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! From the school year 2017/2018, about 185 000 pupils will benefit from the new upper level from the tenth school level. A new way of learning comes into the classrooms, which will also bring many benefits to our students, benefits such as continuous and gradual provision of services in modules, positive performance, only negative completion needs to be repeated, an extended early warning system, individual learning support, promotion of self-employment and self-reliance, maintenance of the class association and improved preparation for university studies. The new upper level is pedagogical and economically valuable to me. The students are certainly not given anything, on the contrary, there is a strengthening of the principle of performance, and this brings more opportunities for our young people. Now, Mr Walser, we have discussed the Greens' request: I personally as a teacher do not think it useful to start with the new upper level in compulsory school, which is already from the ninth school level. What's the point? – On the other hand, I believe that there are several points: Point one: For pedagogical reasons, the new upper level will only consciously begin from the tenth school level because it places significantly higher demands on the self-organisation capacity of pupils. Point two: Many students at the ninth school change from a new secondary school to a high-level real-egymnasium or a BMHS and must- It is also a matter of getting used to a new class community, to new learning contents, but also to new teachers. And especially in this transition phase, requiring the students to design their own learning process at the same time would also make it difficult for them to move to the new school. On the basis of the points just raised, we reject the request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e27703	The next item is Mrs Gusenbauer-Jäger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e27724	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! In the last legislative period, the new upper level was decided from the tenth level. Mr Hauser, there is always a decision in the field of education. The essential part is the modularization, divided into semesters, and completed semesters. There are semester certificates instead of the school news in the semester. Items are grouped into modules, and these modules need to be completed positively. Before the final exams of the respective school take place, each module must be completed positively. Learning and evaluation periods are shorter. And all of this – you could add up a few more – of course brings benefits to the students, but it also brings together the learning activities, both in the winter and summer semesters, to provide positive benefits due to the semester certificate. It requires continuous performance. A throughhang, as it was possible once – or in the future only until the ninth school level – until Easter, and then suddenly you have to create the year, that is no longer possible in this system. This procedure, which will be required from the tenth level, i.e. after compulsory school, and which I believe may also be required, requires a certain maturity and a certain self-responsibility of the pupils. Modularization has already been tested for years from the tenth school level. From the school year 2017/2018, all secondary and higher schools will benefit from the new upper level. A sharp semester section at the ninth school level, as the Greens demand, is easy to reject. This abrupt change, as my colleague has already said, would have a negative impact on the pupils. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e27761	The next item is the speech by Mrs Kucharovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e27783	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I can still welcome Mr Josef Gritz and Mr Franz Struzl at the gallery at a later hour. Welcome to our High House! Now to the request: We have already heard several times anyway, in 2012 the new upper level, the modular upper level has been decided here in the house after a long discussion with experts and stakeholders. Now you can ask: Why not from the ninth level? – I personally thought so, and we also discussed it at the time. [[Abg. Walser: You just have to agree!]] –No, I cannot agree because there is a request that says a little more. Mr. Walser, you know that your request says more than that. Nevertheless, there have been some reasons here. And I would like to address two things, which are also included in the proposal. On the one hand: It is spoken of by the school ship, i.e. the Bertha-von-Suttner-Schule, which already spoke openly in 2009, has finished this school experiment with the modular upper level. [[Abg. Walser: That was not a school attempt, it was the rule!]] Unfortunately, pedagogical reasons were not mentioned at the time, but – and this is a big problem – there were the two-thirds majority of teachers who were willing to continue this model. And I think this is very, very bad, because one also notices that students are not heard in the form as they should be heard from my point of view, nor do they have the appropriate weight and that parents and teachers still have more weight, more influence than students. This has therefore been continued in 2009 with a course system. According to both reports – it is also required to report – there were no problems that indicated this. That is why the argument in your request is a bit strange for me. I would like to mention a second point: At the request of the Greens, the implementation of the Semester exams will be discussed in February. – This does not provide for the law, and this is not acceptable in the form, but the new upper level provides that the students can set the date themselves within the time frame of the two semesters, as it fits for them and as they feel prepared for themselves. I just wanted to make that clear. In conclusion: As has been said, the new upper level will be introduced across the board with 2017/2018. However, it is important – and I would like to stress quite, quite vehemently – that from all the experiences and experiences, from the school experiments that have taken place, from the pilots that have started since 2012 and will also include experience and results in the implementation process. And I think that's learning by doing. I think this is a very good approach. Finally, on the proposal concerning children and young people who have fled: We have also discussed this issue in the Committee, and I must say honestly: A serious discussion would have been really desirable for me. However, I have only received this request shortly before. However, a serious discussion would have been necessary in order to really have a broken access, namely to enable education for all children. I would have wished myself, honestly – I wish I could, I know – to have a discussion in advance, and not just the request contained in the application folder. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e27835	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We come to the vote on the request of the Committee on Education to take note of his report 856 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. The vote on the motion for a resolution by Mrs Walser, ladies and gentlemen, on performance assessment at Dyskalulie. Who's calling for it? – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Walser, colleagues, on access to education for all children and young people regardless of the status of residence. Who's calling for it? – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Strolz, colleagues, on the process of detailed and implementing education reform. Who's calling for it? – This, in turn, is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Strolz, colleagues on index-based allocation of resources in the school system. Who's calling for it? – This, in turn, is the minority. The application is rejected. The agenda is exhausted. [[00:00:10:45]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2015-11-11-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00100_d8e27935	I am still announcing that self-employed requests 1398/A(E) to 1413/A(E) were tabled at today's meeting. The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 0.11 p.m., immediately following this meeting. This meeting is closed.
