ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e9543	Ladies and gentlemen, I shall open the 83. Meeting of the National Council. The Official Protocols of the 79th and 80ths. Meeting of 17 March 1990 ==References====External links== Meeting of 18 March 1990 In June 2015, the Parliament's management remained inconvenient and undisputed. Deputies, Bayr, Muttonen, Hackl, Haider, Hauser, Schwentner and Lettenbichler are reported as prevented. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e9574	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government who are present in another Member State of the European Union has made the following messages: The Federal Chancellor Werner Faymann will be appointed in the afternoon by the Federal Minister for Art and Culture, Constitution and Media Dr. Josef Ostermayer and the Federal Minister for Families and Youth Dr. Sophie Karmasin will be the Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management Dipl.-Ing. Andrä Rupprechter. I announce that this meeting will be broadcast live from ORF 2 to 1 p.m. and from ORF III. [[09:07:14]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e9624	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: ‘This tax reform will fuel unemployment’ I welcome the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany. First of all, Mr. Klubobmann has spoken to Dr. Strolz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e9654	Madam President. Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear citizens on the gallery, at home, on the go, on the screens, on the laptops! We have invited you, Mr Bundeskanzler, to come to Parliament today, because we need to discuss an increasingly large problem which is going on in Austria: This Federal Government presents new unemployment figures every month, which always mark a new record level. We now have unemployment in our country, as we have not known it for 60 years. That is, two whole generations have gone through the country that did not know this problem in this dimension. After-war Austria did not know this problem in this dimension! Within a few months, Mr President, you know, we have gone down sixth from the top in the field of unemployment, that is, the least unemployment in the European Union. Austria is on the way at a frightening pace on the Loserstraße. Estimated citizens! At Christmas 2015, almost 500 000 unemployed people are expected to sit in the Christmas tree in Austria. Together with the families, these are well over a million people who are threatened with unemployment in Austria. What does this Federal Government do? – She doesn’t do anything – from my point of view. You have planned a labour market summit and announced it for June, but you have put it out and moved it because you do not get in the way. And the labour market service confirms that next year unhindered unemployed will be added to up to 50,000, and that in the next year, 2017, unemployed will be added, probably more than 50,000. That is, at Christmas 2017 – so much is predictable; there are no countermeasures, valuable citizens – we are at an unemployment rate of 600 000 in Austria. This is a mass phenomenon that will be dug into every family in Austria. No family will be spared if you go into the first member. That's why we demand NEOS: There is a need for determined counter-strategies, Mr Bundeskanzler – but we do not see them! And if Mr. Finanzminister or you, Federal Chancellor, say: Yes, but we now relieve income!, then you know exactly that we will have reached a higher tax pressure in 2019 than at the beginning of the tax reform next year. They also know that although they reduce the burden on income tax and wage tax, at the same time they burden people on turnover tax. Look You're looking at the numbers you've set in the budget path: You will reduce wage and income tax by 1.8 billion next year, but at the same time you will place 2.1 billion on VAT. In other words, in the first year after the tax reform, you are obviously taking people more from the money bag than you do through VAT. They give them by reducing the wage and income tax. The principle is: into the left pocket, out of the right pocket! And for that, you want the label ‘the biggest tax reform of history’. That is, the government's hypothesis: We are strengthening the economic location by domestic demand and will thus create jobs!, this hypothesis is disproved. You have disproved them with your own numbers! The purchasing power will not rise. Then the big question remains: Who can create jobs then? Is it the state that owes itself breathtakingly faster from year to year? Unfortunately, Austria is on the road towards the Club Med, that is to say to the European southern states. Titulate international newspapers: Austria is developing into Greece of the Alps. – Of course, this has to do with our debt. The question is: Who can create jobs? – It is, Federal Chancellor, companies, it is entrepreneurs, people who are going to risk with what they are with what they can, with what they have! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] And these entrepreneurs create jobs, but only when they can act in a positive environment – but that is not given! Mr. Federal Chancellor, we conducted a survey of entrepreneurs and asked them: Austria is lagging behind in economic development – this is a very sad example. But not only in terms of economic development, but also unemployment, I believe, is home-made. Germany has presented the best unemployment figures since 1991 last week. That is to say, our neighbour manages to present the best figures for 24 years, but within two years we move from one place to six in the European Union. As a result, 79 percent of entrepreneurs say: This fact that Austria is behind is homemade! Above all, Mr Bundeskanzler, Austrian politics is guilty of this development, say almost 80 percent. By the way, this is due to the assessment of the CFOs, i.e. the CFOs, in Austria, of which 98 percent said in the first quarter of the CFO barometer: We need determined structural reforms in Austria! Of course, Austria's financial experts know that we have an blatant structural problem that will fuel unemployment. Unfortunately, Mr Bundeskanzler, the tax reform, the so-called largest tax reform of all time, is also fueling unemployment to an extent that we are all going to look at each other. This is the pouring of oil into the fire of unemployment. Assessment of tax reform Business view: 71 percent of those who want to create jobs say: I appreciate the tax reform rather negative to very negative! – 71 percent say that! If you ask, If the tax reform is expected to boost the economy, 76 percent say: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, 76 per cent of those who should create jobs say: no boosting! As you continue to go into the depths and ask: Is this tax reform a motivation to recruit new employees? Then, Mr Katzian, it will be really dark, because 98 percent of entrepreneurs say: [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] No, she's not an incentive! So almost 100 percent say: No, it is not an incentive to create jobs! – This is, of course, a tragedy for this country! We have also asked: Is the tax reform a means of reducing employees? – At least 23 percent say so, almost a quarter: Yeah, there's a danger that I'll have to break down! [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] Why? - Because there is no discharge. Put yourself once in the shoes of an entrepreneur, a gastronomy, a hotelier who gets no relief, but a higher turnover tax, a higher capital income tax. They receive an increase in the maximum basis of assessment in social security and difficulties in inheriting. You're still asking why? – They have no understanding of entrepreneurs and no respect for entrepreneurship. You don't even know how it works. It seems to me. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] You really don't have a plan! It's a tragedy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] Next question: Will companies invest more next year as a result of the tax reform? – 5 per cent, Mr Katzian, say: Yes, I'll invest more! And five times as many, 27 percent, say: I'll invest less! – So five times as many as those who say they will invest more, say they will invest less. And you're asking: Why will this not happen with new jobs?- Oh, my God! That's why the road is marked, we're here on the trail on the Loserstraße. Austria will reduce prosperity at a rapid pace. In the history books it will be in 20 years that it is incomprehensible that we have not opposed it. How to counter it? – Entrepreneurships wish to reduce additional wage costs. 80 percent say this is a problem that urgently needs to be solved, the factor work is too expensive. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Shopf.]] If you employ someone in Austria today, you have 10 percent more additional wage costs than in Germany, which is 10 percent more expensive. [[Abg. Shopf: Which one? Which one?]] And that is why it is not possible for new jobs to be created. It's not going to work! How could we do that? – We have proposed it in our tax reform concept: We must make structural reforms on the expenditure side, of course structural reforms in the areas of pensions, health, administration, federalism. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] No question! Yes, of course we have to make structural reforms; as the Swedish Social Democrats did. I can't do anything for you having a comprehensive load inhibition. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] This has been done by social democrats in Germany and in Sweden, they do so in many places. We reduce the additional wage costs – this is our proposal – by providing an additional tax on income tax instead of the local tax in the context of tax autonomy. We reduce income tax as a whole, then look at a 6-percent corridor for the surcharge, and take out 2.7 billion on additional wage costs. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] I come to the end, Madam President: In the case of housing, we take out 1 billion because we finance it. We'll stick to it, but we'll finance it. And the chamber contributions: The fact that this tax reform of the Chamber of Labour and the Chamber of Commerce is rinsing additional forced contributions into the cash register is just a footnote that is particularly embarrassing. This tax reform
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e9752	Ladies and gentlemen, you must come to the conclusion.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e9767	This tax reform is fueling unemployment, and that is a tragedy for this country.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e9800	Mr Faymann spoke on a preliminary opinion. Mr Bundeskanzler, your speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e9821	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! I am proud to be able to say, as Austrian Chancellor, that the tax reform will hopefully come into the finish of your positive decision-making process after a fierce discussion and that it will result in more than €5 billion of tax reduction in our country. We are often asked how, at a time when the money is scarce and the crisis in Ukraine and the sanctions against Russia have brought difficulties for many companies in their perspective, at a time when we do not simply want to create a few jobs in the low-paid sector, of which we cannot then live, but want to continue to invest in qualitative employment policies, as it is therefore possible to impose a tax reduction with joint effort, which is grossly a wage tax reduction of 30 percent at a monthly average income of €2 100. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank all those who have a positive part in this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] If you say, Mr Klubobmann Strolz, If people get 5 billion, pay it back again at VAT!, then I tell you, we have set up 220 million in VAT. This is a simple bill: 5 billion discharge – 220 million VAT. – These are the hard facts! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] To the entrepreneurs: By intervening, they have demanded that we give evidence of respect for entrepreneurship. – I have great respect for all entrepreneurs of the country who pay their taxes, who have long been registered funds and who are not afraid of fighting fraud! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, I also have great respect for all the workers who have long had a right to reducing their taxes on work, as we have promised, because of the increases in wages, inflation, wage negotiations. If one now looks at the level of experts who have a certain weight in the public debate in the assessment, even if we as government parties in the public presentation have not yet reached the right level on the positive side, then after a possible today's decision it is still time to communicate accordingly, namely until January, where people will feel it in the pocket. In fact, it is not quite easy for a decision to be taken now, but it will only be felt from January in the wallet to highlight the positive pages right now. The public debate has been very focused on individual points and has pushed the large common into the background. It is therefore our common task to correct this. € 850 million in addition to economics and employment is a positive sign; this has also confirmed Karl Aiginger of the Wifo. The IHS, which has given a clear opinion on this, has also clearly explained the relief of the factor work as an additional increased incentive to work: Employment is now worth more! Private demand, also clearly predicted by the Wifo and the economic experts, increases This means that almost €2.5 billion. That's a plus of 1.4 percent. Value added increases by € 290 million. That's a plus of 0.1 percent. Gross domestic product increases by €1.35 billion. That's a plus of 0.4 percent. The employment effect is estimated from the Wifo at plus 6 500 jobs. That's a plus of 0.2 percent. I mean, it's time to put these hard facts on the table. What you've always propagated in your speech at the beginning, this positive start for the country, I've missed, that's lost. And I think we have every reason to thank the workers, the entrepreneurs, for the efforts of the whole country to finance this discharge together – jointly with individual points that are not easy to accept, but which have shown that this country is the strongest when it comes to employment when it comes to purchasing power when it comes to combating unemployment. During the crisis, we have put in place the right measures with short work, with all the measures that have taken to provide additional training places through a training guarantee, with economic measures. And we are now taking the right action with this tax reform to create employment, combat unemployment and move Austria forward at a difficult time.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e9903	I would draw attention to the fact that from now on each other speaker/other speaker will be available in business order 5 minutes of speaking time. Mr Klubobmann Mag is the first to speak. Arbitrator. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e9928	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Thankfully, Mr Strolz has provided his morning parliamentary instrument that we can discuss the tax reform at an early stage and get the opportunity to present here why it is a good and right tax reform. We should be careful in politics with superlatives, but what we can say in this context with fug and law is that what we are going to decide today was the most important project in this legislative period, the most important project so far in terms of economic, distribution and social policy. With the work on and the implementation of the tax reform, the government and the government groups have proved that problems are being taken seriously, that responsibility is taken over, that solutions are sought and that solutions are found. The tax reform is a success, a success for the people of our country, for the people of Austria, and is an important distribution success. The discharge package, ladies and gentlemen, is €5 billion heavy, which is a very large sum: 5 billion € annual relief for taxpayers, for workers in this country. More than 6 million Austrians, including about 2 million pensioners, benefit directly from this tax reform. And for these 6 million people, the tax reform from January 2016 also means that more money will remain in the stock exchange for them, and this is a beautiful success of this federal government. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[The SPÖ delegates hold closed tablets for a time with the title “The Tax Reform Brings Up: More in the Stock Exchange!”]] More in the Stock Exchange means, above all, also for the smaller and medium-sized incomes, that they can also spend the money on the expenditure they have so urgently to carry out. The tax reform here provides a relief in the lower and medium incomes, and this is a good success. Perhaps I can give you two examples of illustration, ladies and gentlemen. The monthly gross earnings - we will ensure more money in the stock exchange, with the decisions that will then be taken on the next three agenda items here. [[Abg. Darmann: (on the SPÖ banking series) Mr. Bundeskanzler, this is an invitation to you to provide more money in the stock exchange!]] If you earn 2 100 € gross per month – meaning a relative in the lower segment of resident incomes – then 900 € per year remain in the stock exchange. This is a wage tax reduction of 30 percent. A skilled worker, who earns around €3,000 gross a month, will have 1 €300 more in the stock exchange in the future. This is a discharge that flows directly back into the economy and into the economic cycle. But even those with very small, low incomes and pensioners are relieved by the higher credit, keyword: negative tax, social security reimbursement. This will also increase the share of employees up to €400 per year. Of the €5 billion in total – just so that we can take a close look at the distribution effect – more than €4.5 billion goes to the lower and middle income areas or to say otherwise: 91 percent of the tax reform flows into income below €4 500 gross per month. This is also an important success for greater justice. But people don't pay the discharge – and that's the other important thing – from their own pocket. Counter-financing shall be carried out by means of tax fraud control, the obligation to register, the right to consult, the fight against carousel fraud and all these measures and also through contributions from the high-earners and assets in that country: Increase capital income tax from 25 per cent to 27.5 per cent, with the exception of savings books; higher real estate income tax, rise to 30 per cent; Season rate for basic income tax on the free transfer and the rise in the peak tax rate to 55 percent for income over one million euros. In conclusion: It is also a success for the economy. Around €900 million flow back directly to the budget thanks to the increased purchasing power and the economic effects. If people have more money in the stock exchange, then the money flows into consumption, that strengthens the economy, and that creates jobs. And that's exactly what Austria needs!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e9984	Mr Klubobmann Dr. Lopatka is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e10022	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to add the following directly to the remarks made by my previous speaker, Mr Klubobmanns Schieder: It is indeed true that this tax reform is the largest project of this federal government. [[Abg. Kickl: construction site!]] With a volume of €5 billion, it is actually a big tax reform that we are setting in motion today. We are doing exactly what you have always called for to relieve the wide range of taxpayers. That's exactly what happens today and would also deserve your approval. [[Abg. Kickl: No!]] I'm sure! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: No, you won't get!]] This tangible discharge concerns mainly the middle class, the families and, of course, the entrepreneurs. There I may now be something contrary to Mr Bundeskanzler: I assume that even without a register, the entrepreneurs have paid their taxes properly so far! [[I should like to congratulate Mr Jarolim and Mr Nachbaur on his report.]] And I also thank those who paid their taxes without a register. But since we have jointly said that we are taking steps here to be the leader in combating fraud across Europe, we have been willing to take this path along. Mr Kogler, you were also present at the negotiations. We have found a good solution here today which we will decide with two-thirds majority to protect privacy in the balance, on the one hand, and on the other hand to have the corresponding instruments that Austria is at the forefront when it comes to combating fraud. But that's just the one side. The second side, which is important to us, is to put impulses on the idea that we will again have more growth, that the economy will be revived, and I would rather rely on the economic research institute than on the bad speech of Klubobmann Strolz, as it happened today. What does the Wifo say? – The Wifo says that in 2016 we will again have an economic growth of 1.8 percent. The Wifo also says that we will have a growth of 20,000 jobs, and of course some of them are due to the increase in purchasing power. As a result of the tax reform alone, there will be an average of 2.6 percent increase in net real wages without wage increases. That's something! That's a lot, I tell you, just in a time like this! Remember: Today, the Minister of Finance has to fly back to Brussels in the middle of the debate. In the evening the Federal Chancellor must be in Brussels. While in other countries only emergency programmes control the agenda, we are trying to lead Austria back to the top. And we are doing something here, which is very important in the competition: an increase in the research premium to 12 percent. This increase is something! In crowdfunding, there are new rules in financing, facilitating new founders. That's something for business! You should already see that positively. This will be decided by us today. Also, those who are service providers are not ignored here: The limit from which the top tax rate is to be paid is increased from € 60 000 to € 90 000. That is exactly what we need, who are willing to do more, and who should not be seen as those who get a backpack loaded with it. And we're also doing something in the area of bureaucracy, that there's less bureaucracy. Our financial unit is already at the forefront of Europe and has received many awards in terms of automatic tax charges. In the future, we will continue to have the applicationless family support and take further and important steps here. It is important for us that the people who carry on this state – these are those who honestly do their work daily, who do much to pay their taxes and who ensure that this unique social, health and pension system that we have in Austria can also be financed – that these fair taxpayers feel that we are on their side. And we are doing this with this tax reform today, because 1 000 € on average is already felt, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. And that's what you should see from the opposition. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Germany has already been mentioned today. German experts have also clearly qualified this tax reform. The economics Peter Bofinger says she is positive, she is courageous and exemplary in the EU comparison. Or: Marcel Fratzscher, head of the Institute for Economic Research, says that Austria is implementing a major and courageous reform here. With this reform, the Federal Government has shown that it can implement large projects. In autumn, the next major reforms will have to be undertaken: education, the labour market and the pension system.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e10097	Next item is the report by Mr Kickl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e10119	Madam President. Gentlemen on the government bank! High house! You know, Mr Lopatka, you should be a little careful when you quote here in the context of the tax reform extensive expertise and experts. It may be the same that you called on when you announced from here that all of Greece's aid will become a business for us. [[Abg. Lopatka: I never announced that!]] You have to be very, very careful when calling on these supposed experts. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I have, in fact, for a long time had a very different impression as to the activity of this red and black federal government. I sometimes feel that, with a single goal, you have now repeatedly taken up this so-called government responsibility, with the aim of dispeling optimism, diligence, willingness to perform in this country and the joy of entrepreneurship from that country. I think that's the project you're working on. And in return, you have interests in importing very different things into the country: for example, the debt of the Member States, the liabilities of other countries, then we are talking about illegal economic refugees who together are importing you into this country, and I am also talking about cheap workers to strain the bow on this issue. That is where you agree, and I see a certain disbalance in these two measures. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that your aim is to dispel these virtues, and the most recent project in this effort, which you want to put in place together, is this so-called tax reform, where, in view of its content alone, this term is a presumptuous one. What to deliver You're leaving? This is a mix of a pitfall on the one hand, and on the other hand there are still the attractive ingredients of red tape, schikainization and criminalization of the entire population in general and certain areas of the economy, such as gastronomy, in particular. This is the package you want to offer us as a so-called tax reform. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That at a time when basically the exact opposite would be necessary, where it would be necessary to reverse a trend, also through the possibilities that would be in a tax reform. And that's what you promised us. I know that your promises do not mean too much to you and that you like to send them back to the realm of forgetting, but that was what you promised us: a turnaround in the labour market through economic impulses. That was this torpheric mantra, with which one has passed through the country the last months: Tax reform is equal to economic growth is equally less unemployed. You have only forgotten that this bill only occurs if the tax reform is not a tax reform, but a tax relief, and we are away from this tax relief in the meantime light years, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] With this so-called tax reform, they of SPÖ and ÖVP are once again out of existence as institutionalized enemies of the service providers in this country, the small and medium-sized enterprises in that country, the family businesses in that country and the GesmbHs in that country. They are all in the focus of your waste-cash mentality, and you seem to forget that with this attack on the performance carriers, of course, you will also create a huge potential for thousands of jobs. It seems you don't care. In this respect, the pink reds are already right when they say that this tax reform 'fires' unemployment in Austria. That's right, you can only agree. But why should Austria's financial policy make a difference to education policy? Education policy also stimulates unemployment. Look at what is being driven in Austrian education policy! – There are a few who, with their programs, are spiritually stuck in the 68s communities, instead of making people fit for their professional life. So education policy also contributes to ruining jobs in Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The labour market policy does this anyway because it does not focus on the protection factor for Austrian jobs as it would be necessary. And I am not talking about European policy at all, when “free ride for everything” always means that all of these things go to the contrary of Austria. Tax policy is not, as it were, an exception to these negative trends. I'd like to hear the pink-reds worry about jobs. But then you have to think about some other things that are very central to your programmatics, which I would like to give you along the way. Then you can quickly say goodbye to the idea that every asylum-seekers in Austria should also get a job, because this leads to an eviction that we do not want. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is probably also the difference between us and you. If we are talking about jobs in Austria and the protection of these jobs, we are primarily talking about jobs for the Austrians, but you do not seem to care where these workers who are active in Austria come from. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] I do not think we are in a situation where we can hide all of this, but the time comes when we need to look closely and the protection measures for the Austrians also have to be taken on the labour market. Ladies and gentlemen! If you do not want red black to act as the graves of small and medium-sized enterprises, you will have the opportunity to reverse the trend in September and October – with a voice for the FPÖ! [[President Bures gives the bell sign again]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e10207	Next word reported: Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e10229	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! Now we realize that the summer break is coming and obviously not too many special sessions are planned, because we are already in the area of election speeches, as I heard from my previous speaker. I just want to take up the part that NEOS originally brought in here – as they at least claim – and just say a priority: As bad as you yourself, Mr Klubobmann Strolz, or not to mention the Blues, the country of Austria cannot stand. Everyone recognizes that. [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] In the meantime, it is simply very helpful once if one leads to this – in the 4 to 5 minutes that I will talk about now, we will anyway focus on the differences that we, the Greens, have with the Federal Government proposal and the approaches; there is also enough criticism, if you want to do so. But one has to acknowledge that the sober look at the global figures and the situation of Austria – still, that's the subject now – is still much better than many other countries. The subject is in fact quite different, and I believe that Klubobmann Strolz wanted to go there too: that Austria, if we do not set a few ways in time, actually falls back in many areas, even from the point of view of the Greens, and not at low speed. Signs are already sufficiently recognizable. As we used to say in this praise: It's very good, but in reality we already live by the bacon in the chamber. In the meantime, you can see: The door to the pantry is open, we're already cracking on the fat bacon – and we're not going to deliver. Let us now come to this tax reform project! In my view, the term “reform” has finally been saved through the counter-financing areas, otherwise we would have ended up with a more or less change in tariffs, which we see as less successful. So there was no original mention of reform. If you try here with the 5 billion, that sounds like a lot for Austria, but if you look at how long it takes until adjustments are made, then 5 billion will not be so much if you calculate inflation and the effects on it, and I am not talking about the cold progression, that has already been discussed in detail. So, like a milestone you're representing, that's not gonna happen. If you already have a chance of reform, you could of course make much more. We are missing within the existing block of 5 billions of the corresponding recontrol effects, and only quite rightly could we have moved much greater volumes in much larger courageous steps, would we also confess that large parts are simply reversible. This sounds technical – simply means that we do not let the budget deficit and debt rise to the appropriate extent, because in areas where we are already hanging back with the tax burden in Austria, we could once raise something and go down where the tax burden is highest and most harmful. This is particularly true in the area of wages and payrolls, which is exactly what the business side is all about. None of this is contained in the reform. That is why I would be right about the NEOS' intention on the spot, but we have to think about the big wheels when we are talking about tax reform. This would be a re-taxation; the term “taxes” also includes “living”. They're talking about structures, so let's look at the tax structure in Austria once in a quick pass! We are still relatively far behind in the field of assets-related charges – we cannot save you. There you have to scratch all the little ones together until once something moves that you can even make up statistical effects. And in the field of environmental taxation, we have also been slipped off from a medium-sized man ten or twenty years ago into the last third. I say this because we don't want to be so populist and say: We want to reduce taxes everywhere, at the same time keep expenditure or even spend more!, as we hear from others, but it is about serious tax concepts. That's why it's about re-controlling. But with the thing you've got there, with the 5 billion, you haven't even produced it properly in yourself. The distribution effects are such that, contrary to your representations, the middle and upper ones actually get a big hit, which will cause the growth and employment effects to fall much, much less than they would have to fail if they were to take over 5 billion. [[Abg. Arbitrators: 95 percent go down and into the middle!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: That's falsely reckoned!]] That's the problem. 0.4 percent additional growth is maximum – and Mr. Lopatka is here and says that in 2016 it is 1.8 percent. Yeah, but why? – But not because of this reform! That's exactly the subject. For years, throughout the last GP, you've been doctoring with what I know as many commissions. If that were true, what you say, this kind of thing
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e10285	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to come to the conclusion. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e10301	We could have had this kind of reform years ago, at the latest at the time of the government negotiations, you could have stopped it. It's not a milestone, it's a pebble, I'm sorry. But the debate in this GP will show how to make something so decent – and immediately after this current hour is going on.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e10328	Reported as follows: Mrs. Klubobfrau Dietrich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e10349	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate Mr. Federal Chancellor! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I am grateful to NEOS for taking up this issue. Unemployment in Austria is an issue that employs every individual and – as the forecasts say – unfortunately It will continue to work in the future. I fail and I regret that this tax reform has failed to create incentives to create jobs in the future. Yes, the situation is drastic. A small look at the headlines: almost 7 percent more unemployed, no relaxation in the labour market, older and non-Austrian most affected, almost 24 percent plus in Vienna, workers over 50 years of age have it hard to get more and more long-term unemployed. Even if Mr Sozialminister Hundstorfer tries to speak the situation well – there is no good reason, the situation is more drastic than ever! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] That this tax reform is not the appropriate means and was to boost the economic engine, create jobs, in it many experts give us right, among other things also AMS chief Johannes Kopf, who says that unemployment is not reduced, but at the maximum of the increase a little dampened. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, this should make you think that you are on the way here! [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Stroll.]] The fact is that entrepreneurs have no incentive to recruit new employees. The fact is that 71 percent of SMEs feel that tax reform is negative. These tax reforms are considered to be negative for those who want to create jobs. That can't be the right way. The fact is, investment will decline. Ladies and gentlemen! A reduction in additional labour costs would probably have been the first step towards creating more jobs. What we need is a tax reform that creates jobs that are aimed at creating jobs, and that is implementing a tax reform that stimulates the economy, the economic engine and rewards domestic investment. [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Stroll.]] In addition, it would be high time to think about how much bureaucracy we believe in our entrepreneurs. There too, the government would have the highest need for action, and I urge you to finally take action. Another important point is: They don't support entrepreneurs, you don't strengthen entrepreneurs. On the contrary, you criminalize entrepreneurs and you demoralize entrepreneurs! This is one point, which is why many experts, many bankers, say, no one wants to invest anymore. Everyone I'm talking to says a lot of entrepreneurs: Well, let's see how it goes. But this fire, this engine, this will to invest something and thus create jobs, you have grumbled at the entrepreneurs – through your process of criminalisation and demoralization. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I am telling you that the discharge is not due to the fact that you are criminalizing the businessmen 100 percent, throwing them all into a pot, bringing back 500 tax inspectors from the pension, who are even more likely to knock on their fingers. The discharge does not take place because you have made the extension of depreciation periods, and the discharge does not take place because you have not provided tax incentives that can actually be made investment. Ladies and gentlemen! What you want to give the Austrians today as a gift – I hear 1 000 € on average per nose – is what you have taken from the Austrians in recent years. This is not a gift, but it is a return of the stolen one.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e10437	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you not to forget at your choice of words that we are in the House! - Please, you're speaking again.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e10452	Madam President, I take note of this and take the floor back. But I would like to point this out again: The money was taken away from the people before and now handed over as a gift again, and against this we defend ourselves! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Experts have calculated that this tax advantage will already be gone in 2017. [[Call the SPÖ:What?]] I say to you, ladies and gentlemen, I would have liked another reform from a federal government at an economically so difficult time, at a time when 420 000 people are on the streets – a reform that actually creates jobs! In this sense, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e10493	Next word reported: Mr Mag. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e10514	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! High house! Dear viewers on the visitor gallery and in front of the screens! This – in the title “tax reform” – collective reform is ridiculous, and it fuels unemployment. Not only does it bring nothing, it is also negative in its effect. The government would have had the opportunity to set impulses, and it has clearly failed to do so. This is already seen – it has been said several times today – that only money is returned that people have lost to the state through the cold progression, and in addition to the return of the money comes what you always call counter-financing. The Federal Government has to pull extra money out of one bag to put it into the other, and that means that the discharge is only half. We are negotiating here in plenary today, tomorrow and the day after tomorrow – and we have already done so in plenary before – a whole package of new bureaucrats that we are knocking on the company. In the last plenary session, for example, it was the Regulatory Amendment Act, tomorrow comes the Social Fraud Law, with which we put all entrepreneurs under a general suspicion. We're creating new bureaucracy because you need to press the taxpayers'citrons even further so that the last droplet comes out, so that your budget just goes out somehow. In my opinion, Mr Katzian will speak and say: This is a great relief for the workers, the union has achieved a wonderful success! It'll be something like that in the pitch. What you've forgotten – and this happens when you're a trade unionist: They always look at the class of the possessors. Those who now have a job benefit because they are currently paying less wage tax. [[Abg. Katzian: After all, 3 million!]] But what about those who don't have a job that you need? What about the growing army of the unemployed? That is why it would have required a reduction in additional wage costs so that we could create air again for new jobs. That would have needed courage from this federal government – and everyone who knows that a measure requires courage from this federal government also knows why it does not happen. In March, you have announced that there will be a contribution to the Family Allowance Fund, but of course you have already distributed so many gifts again that this does not go out. Now you say that will be possible at the earliest 2019. They have made a microscopic small contribution to accident insurance. If one looked at how the incomes of accident insurance developed, there would have been much more in it. You don't have the courage to cut the chambers. The Chamber of Commerce benefits from every wage euro, and the Chamber of Commerce will also benefit from your increase in sales tax in chamber 1 in addition. They would have been able to take a courageous step and remove Chamber 2 and thus reduce additional labour costs. They would have been able to take a courageous step and put the workers' chambers in the barriers that do nothing with the additional contributions to blow up administrative equipment, to finance luxury pensions and to create fat office buildings. They would have been able to demonstrate courage and give tax autonomy to countries and communities that take responsibility for countries and communities, give them more responsibility, but could also require more responsibility. They would have been able to prove courage in the housing aid contribution and not to finance it by wage and salary. The federal states are sinking money without end. But not only can one refer to Carinthia, Lower Austria is a great example of how to drive Schindluder with housing funds. You didn't prove this courage. We still have a system that distributes money from bottom to top. The small cashier at the BILLA – which quoted a lot – is financing the home for the middle class with her wage payments. This has a socially democratically led federal government to answer that the little ones are financing the home of their own. We do not want to talk about your Vienna housing policy and anyone who works in the bag. This government has no courage, this government is afraid. She's afraid of reforms, she's afraid of changes, and she's afraid of losing power. She's stuck in her armchairs. The Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany is actually only sticking to the saws of the chair, which your party colleagues have already cut him down among the most valued. There's nothing left, and if we're wrong, we'll have to look at this disaster for another three years.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e10551	Next word reported: Mr Katzian. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e10572	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! My predecessor has some light-seen qualities, because he already knows what I'm going to say in advance. Mr Strolz has also referred to me three times. – I will try not to let you down. The fact is that we discussed about a year ago the situation that income from the wage tax is rising much more than the revenue from VAT. The clear conclusion of this is: This country has a purchasing power problem, and we have to see that more remains in the stock exchange. That is why the ÖGB and the Chamber of Workers have jointly launched the campaign “Lohn tax Down!” – I know that you are bothering, Mr Kickl – and 900,000 people in this country have signed and supported “Lohn tax!” [[Abg. Kickl: If we didn't need it, everyone agreed! All agreed on the subject!]] [[Abg. Kickl: herbeikampagnize!]] They did not support: Cost reduction; they did not support: down with corporate taxes! The message was clear: Payroll tax down! And today is a good day, ladies and gentlemen, because today we decide: Payroll tax down! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Workers will be relieved by over €5 billion, which increases the purchasing power in this country. Those who are relieved are the true service providers, not those of which we should be told by all possible sides that they are service providers. The service providers in this country are employees, and they have deserved to have a corresponding wage tax reduction. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] While some of my predecessors are concerned about the motivation of entrepreneurs and about the joy of being entrepreneurs, we say quite clearly: This tax reduction creates jobs because it brings more purchasing power, and that is not something we have invented, but it is actually confirmed by all economic research institutes in Austria that there is this positive effect and impact for workers, pensioners and other groups. This reform lowers the tax rate, increases private income and creates incentives to work – actually, loud points that NEOS repeatedly demand, so I wonder and we ask ourselves: What is bothering you with this tax reform? What is bothering you about those who benefit, namely the workers? You said it bothered you that the entrepreneurs get too little. – I have to say that we have done a lot for entrepreneurs in recent years. I could list you a whole list of tax reliefs and other things. Now the workers are on it, and not any other, because they have paid for years and now get back what they owe! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On the extra wage costs, because they are so important to you. Apart from: We have taken steps this year in the area of accident insurance, in the insolvency benefit fund, to reduce additional labour costs. [[Abg. Stroll indicates a small span between thumbs and index fingers.]] - Yeah, that's all too little, it's clear anyway. [[Abg. Kickl: Not even homeopathic!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Risinger.]] I think it's funny that those who are among the biggest profiters in the social state are yelling loudest. Take a look at the Federal grant for the pensions of freelancers and traders! He's highest there, not at the ASVG! There he's the highest, and you're the most tearing up your mouth. You have to ask yourself what this is all about. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We have said that we do not pay for the tax reform ourselves. If you want to discuss additional wage costs with us, then we are talking about re-basing, then we are talking about how value-added elements can play a role, but not about how we can cut in pensions and other important issues for workers, which are financed by these so-called additional wage costs. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stroll]] That's how it looks, Mr. Strolz! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] [[Abg. Stroll: Until 2042, that's what it's all about!]] And then a few sentences on your survey that you've launched and where you're saying they all don't see motivation and the danger is so great that they don't pick up anyone now, and so on: The question is, why? Where's the big problem? [[Abg. Stroll: You are the problem!]] You tried to give answers. I'll tell you where the answers are. One thing is: What does this reform bring? – More tax-honority, less tax fraud – that fuels unemployment?- Oh, my God! An account register, as is common in most countries, a reporting register – that fuels unemployment?- Oh, my God! [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] Accounting in case of justified suspicion with judicial approval – that fuels unemployment?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Stroll: Unemployment, you will see it! You'll see!]] What you're talking about is quite clear: They want those who are on the butter side today to remain on the butter side and the employees are the G’schnalzten. [[Abg. Shh! Is a fool!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Meinl-Reisinger]] This is not going on – unfortunately for you, good for the workers!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e10774	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Zakostelsky. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e10792	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Dear listeners and listeners! I would like to start with a quote which Mr Secretary-General Kickl brought me to. I give him the right to talk about a tax reform implying economic growth and to mean that it means less unemployment when it comes to a discharge. That is exactly what we have been discussing here for a year, ladies and gentlemen, and we are now actually preparing to implement a tax relief reform. They are perfectly right to highlight the meaning of the word “relief”. In this sense, it is also true that the FPÖ is invited to adopt this tax relief reform today. [[Abg. Kickl: If it were just her!]] [[Call the FPÖ: fairy tales!]] However, one cannot dispute the NEOS of one, they are right: There must be no question of actively combating unemployment. It needs – and this is precisely what the ÖVP, which repeatedly points out – impulses to further promote and support the entrepreneurs who are very involved in the country, and to further relieve the entrepreneurs. This is where the tax reform brings first impetus. However, it is disappointing – we are going to talk about the tax reform in detail today – that Klubobmann Strolz is trying to fight unemployment with panic. The NEOS likes to claim themselves to be a productive party. However, it does not seem to have lasted even two years until a populism tornado has become from the supposedly fresh wind in the high house, which insecures the people. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Stroll: (the raised hands shaking) Oh!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Dear friends of the NEOS! They do not understand today that this tax reform provides the necessary impetus to stimulate the economy as a whole, but it would have to inform the so-called liberals that the reduction of taxes entails these desired effects. Apparently, the knowledge of content on the way to populism has been lost a little; I am very sorry, quite frankly. It is clear that the Federal Government has taken a courageous step towards burdening working people in our society with a package of €5.2 billion, a package that is not based on pump and new debt, but is a real package of redundancies, which also includes counter-financing. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear friends of the NEOS! The biggest collective reform of history is only indisputable from the volume of the tax reform that exists here. If you look more closely at the topic of this current hour – “Tax reform fuels unemployment” – then you might think that NEOS actually believe that tax reform will further increase unemployment. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Yes!]] [[Abg. Stroll: Yes, we did!]] The opposite can only be the case. The renowned economic research institutes WIFO and IHS evaluate the tax reform quite differently from you. [[Abg. Stroll: Have created pleasant opinions!]] The WIFO expects an additional increase in the number of jobs in the order of 10 000; even more optimistic is the IHS, which already speaks of 22,000 new jobs created by the tax reform. On the contrary, this tax reform, of course, is a major collective reform, as a relief for the many hardworking people in our country. As German Chancellor Faymann said correctly: On the one hand, we see a package of €5 billion discharge and, on the other hand, the additional revenue from VAT you are referring to in the order of €200 million, which clearly supports the issue of discharge. The tax reform is therefore clearly positive as a whole, and, as Mr Lopatka has already mentioned, after all these start-up effects, the corresponding incentives towards the gross domestic product will occur at the latest in 2017. Moving a package of €5.2 billion also means courage to develop this country, to change that country. However, courage also means, of course, further reforms. The tax relief reform is a first step, which is also clearly said to be a start-up, and there is already the agreement that exists here also to further reduce the additional wage costs towards entrepreneurs – that is a very important prospect – to further reduce the administration and to further develop the pension system. I think it is possible to say in total that the two government parties have succeeded together in a solid and forward-looking throw. The debates on the further stimulation towards the economy – and there perhaps the circle closes again to the NEOS; we will be measured by that – must not, of course, be silent. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] We must continue to relieve the economy quite clearly, including in terms of job creation. The NEOS are always invited to return to the path of solution orientation. I believe that you and your voters are guilty of this. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e10911	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Fuchs. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e10932	Madam President. Members of the Federal Government! High house! Values Advisors! According to the Council of Ministers' presentation, the Federal Government wants to generate additional impetus for growth and employment with this tax reform. The only areas of growth I can see are unemployment, public debt, labour costs, bureaucracy and the tax rate. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The main fault of the situation of our economy lies not in Europe, as Social Minister Hundstorfer says, but in Austria – with the Minister of Social Affairs Hundstorfer himself and his reform blockade and many other decisions of this Federal Government. How intensively our Federal Government is working to solve the problem of record unemployment is evidenced by the fact that the labour market summit announced in May first for June and then for July is only due to take place in September. It doesn't seem to be in a hurry, and the proposals made up to now don't really sound targeting. For example, Social Minister Hundstorfer wants to tax the overtime higher and completely explores that many workers depend on these overtimes because otherwise they can no longer afford to live. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Call the FPÖ:Right!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] Even a machine tax has already been proposed by the Social Minister. When does this Social Minister finally understand that new taxes and tax increases do not create or secure jobs? The jobs are created with mass by the many domestic small-scale and medium-sized enterprises. These are the backbone of the domestic economy, and in view of the current record unemployment, a relief of small and medium-sized enterprises is essential, particularly in the case of additional wage costs. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What benefits do citizens benefit from a wage tax relief if they have no work? The Federal Government, however, makes exactly the opposite: It puts the entrepreneurs under the general suspicion of levying, and imposes higher charges on small and medium-sized enterprises. This tax reform is financed by a long list of anti-economic measures, such as: extension of the depreciation period for buildings to 40 years; increasing the KESt on profit distributions from GmbHs; a family GmbH will in future face a total tax burden of 45,625 percent, starting from the first profit euro; deposits of GmbHs will be taxed more difficult; [[Call the FPÖ: Unbelievable!]] the abolition of the education allowance and the education premium; the introduction of a hidden inheritance and gift tax by increasing the acquisition of property tax; the promotion of operational transfers; increasing the maximum basis of social security contributions, which continues to be expensive in terms of employment; increasing the income tax on real estate; Increase in sales tax and so on. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neubauer]] – A clear no to these anti-economic measures, which this Federal Government calls tax reform! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The high additional wage costs are work-related and have to be reduced immediately. The abolition of the contribution to housing development would be a first step in the right direction, since the contribution to housing development is no longer intended and by the countries is mainly used for poor speculation and also for the feeding of party housing cooperatives. Also with the compulsory membership contributions to the Chamber of Labour and the Chamber of Commerce is finally cleaned up. If a worker earns so little that he does not pay taxes, the Chamber of Labour does not care, the Chamber of Labour is nevertheless due. Even more incredible is only the chamber cover 1 of the Chamber of Commerce, whose height is measured by the value of the pre-taxes. So if an entrepreneur invests more and more, which in times like this is ever more rare, then automatically increases the chamber size 1. That's incredible! By abolishing the housing contributions and compulsory membership contributions, the additional wage costs could be reduced by around €1.8 billion per year. Entrepreneurs would then again be able to invest more in human capital. There is also a potential for reduction in the FLAF contribution and the IESG contribution. Summa summarum This tax reform is not a burden on the economy and citizens, but a burden on them. However, a reduction in small and medium-sized enterprises, particularly in the case of additional wage costs, is essential in order to reduce record unemployment.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e11032	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Honey. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e11054	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, unemployment is alarmingly high, it continues to rise – and, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, I am sorry, but when it comes to growth, employment and the fight against unemployment, this tax reform is certainly not a big throw. I listened very carefully to how the representatives of the government parties quoted the various economic forecasts. They have all been silent about what the WIFO says about economic growth and tax reform. This number you have kept silent: Economic growth of 0.1 percent is forecast by a tax reform of €5.2 billion. 0.1 percent! We would need at least 2 per cent in order to have an impact on unemployment. So the leader. The tax reform is certainly not a big throw in the fight against unemployment! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Stroll.]] We will often have the opportunity to talk about this tax reform today, so I would like to take advantage of the opportunity again to point out the unemployment problem in the labour market. For us Greens it is perfectly clear: When it comes to the future development of the labour market and the fight against unemployment, we must finally address the issue of working time, the division of working time and the reduction of working time. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Once more I have to To clarify this – please finally look at the relevant information –: Since at least ten Years the amount of paid hours goes down! There are less and less paid working hours available. At the same time, the labour market potential is constantly growing, i.e. more and more people are pushing the labour market. We've got a shear there! And I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, how you deal with this sheer if not the growth we would need to create a turnaround comes somewhere. If the tax reform does not make it, the reindustrialization does not make it, Industry 4.0 – all this will not make this shear significantly smaller. Unfortunately, you have to take note of that. Ladies and gentlemen! There are two possible variants in our assessment. One thing is, in view of this sheer, you are buying that in the next decades unemployment continues to rise. It's going to be expensive for the public. Unemployment is very, very expensive – apart from the social, social and political problems arising from it. That's variant one. Variant two is that you distribute the existing paid work differently, better distribute, more justly distribute to those people who want to be active on the labour market. Ladies and gentlemen! How can this better distribution, this fairer distribution work? – Of course, first of all we need a reduction in working time for all those who are still in full time or more than fully working through many overtimes and through all-in contracts. – First step: Shortening of working time. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] However, we of the Greens also say that this must involve a working time flexibility package. That is quite clear for us. It needs both: Employment reduction, working time flexibility, intensive negotiations. There are many questions to be resolved. How do we deal with the problem of compensation for wages? There the entrepreneurs must not be left alone. But: Unemployment also costs a lot of money. The public sector must support companies in their entry into the reduction of working time, which is out of question for us. Ladies and gentlemen! What does green flexibility mean for us, working time flexibility? – Clearly, flexibilisation must not mean any more load without the corresponding counterperformance. That is out of question. But flexibility is a modern need, a modern need for businesses, but also for workers, and this must be met. I hope that, after the tax reform, the government will now take real effective measures to combat unemployment. Yes, it finally needs this local and labour market summit, which I hope will be conducted in a serious way. There must be a reduction in working time. And then we need pilot projects, support for companies that are involved in the division of working time. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] That's the green proposal. I am quite sure that the distribution of working time will continue on the labour market. Shorter working hours fairly distributed, modern working time flexibility – that would be good for the public, for public finances. This would be good for the entrepreneurs
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e11136	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to come to a close.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e11151	I'm finished. Finally, the green proposal would certainly also be good for employees in Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e11184	The next item is the speech by Mrs Dr. Nachbaur. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e11205	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! Dear taxpayers! Unemployment is rising and rising. Most of the problems are homemade, as we know: Reforms, too much bureaucracy, record taxes and, in particular, debt making – we are already 89 percent. A new record! Fitch reduced the 2015 growth forecast from 1.6 percent to 0.8 percent. Growth is halving! Fitch also says that the tax reduction will not be enough to offset the decline in growth potential. Dear SPÖ-led government! You obviously know this yourself, because otherwise you wouldn't be with the SPÖ and with the trade unions, which, by the way, seem to be specialized in left-romantic milkmaid bills like the Greens, thinking about an overtime euro and reducing working time. The 35-hour week was for France the Turbo to the economic decline. [[Congratulations with the Stronach team and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Since the SPÖ re-establishes the Federal Chancellor, unemployment has constantly increased – as has the debt and government ratio. Since the SPÖ re-establishes the Federal Chancellor, there seems to be an ever-increasing gap between the real problems of the country and that with which the government is working time-consumingly, namely traffic lights, federal anthems, inland I, gendering, Uhudler, song contest, registers and finally disclosure of accounts and savings books. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and FPÖ.]] The so-called tax reform, which the citizens will anyway pay for themselves, will not contribute here, as the credit rating agency Fitch says. This is just the long overdue reform of the tariffs, which gives back to the citizens some of the money they have actually taken away from them, undemocraticly legitimized. But the tax levels are not known to be indexed, that is, this first gratifying effect will soon be puffed. There are thousands of construction sites in our country that have an impact on this disastrous situation on the labour market. I would now like to draw out a particularly urgent construction site, namely the Russian sanctions. The Austrian economy is very closely intertwined with the Russian economy, the Russian sanctions will hit Austria's economy much more in the long term than initially assumed. A study by the politically really unwarranted economic research institute assumes that 45 000 jobs are lost in extreme cases. 45 000 jobs! If sanctions are to be reinforced again, exports to Russia can break in by a quarter. This corresponds to a loss of gross value added of €2.9 billion. Some 4,000 of the jobs at risk come from the retail trade. According to Wifo's calculations, trade mediation and wholesale trade are losing over 3,000 jobs. A similar degree of job reduction in construction services, in accommodation and restaurants as well as in mechanical engineering is taking place. Tourism too, of course, is being permanently damaged in the face of continuing sanctions. The Wifo study says literally: "As compared to the other EU-27 countries, Austria suffers from its close supply relationships in some countries. a high export share to Russia ( ) under the indirect effects of the Russian crisis than other European countries.’ So, dear government, take back Russia's sanctions, which Russia, anyway, only continues to push into militarization and precisely strengthen authoritarian tendencies rather than slow them down. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Improve the tax reform again! Relieve the economy! When it comes to counter-financing, rely solely on the administrative reform and do not depend on any economic flute that is supposed to exist across Europe, because it does not exist. A look at Germany is enough: Germany writes black numbers. 2015 is the fourth year in a row. By the way, a very smart social democrat, Mr Schröder, laid the foundation for economic growth with his 2010 agenda. Horst Seehofer recently gave up the recipe of German success on a visit to Styria, and he said: The companies in Bavaria are role models, not enemy images.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e11284	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Meinl-Risinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e11306	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not know from whom this came, I do not know whether Mr Katzian or Mr Zakostelsky, someone has said he wishes to see a positive entry into the NEOS. [[Abg. Katzian: It wasn't me!]] I can give it to you or I'd like to give it to you. We have a vision that this vision would mean that we stand here and talk about the fact that there is a start in this country where entrepreneurs say: Yeah, that's great, I'm investing again! Start-ups will be established. Workers find jobs. A turnaround on the labour market has started. But unfortunately, I cannot draw this positive image. The mood is damn bad, really bad. Mr Katzian! If you say that we stand up for those who are on the butter side, then I ask you very cordially, to individual entrepreneurs, to the tailor around the corner, to go to the market standr at the Meisel market wherever, and talk to those entrepreneurs who sometimes get up at 1 o'clock, 2 o'clock in the early morning, go to the wholesale, buy their fruits and vegetables there, then bring them to the market and have open in the evening until 6 o'clock, 19 o'clock, and all of them say through the bank: [[Abg. Höbart: They want to have nothing to do with anything!]] The mood is bad! I cannot afford to hire workers at the moment! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Katzian.]] One reason for this is this tax reform, this collective reform. That's what we've done with this survey. Most of the entrepreneurs say: I'd love to, but I can't, it just doesn't work out! – These are not those on the butter side. I'll invite you to: Go there, talk to these people! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] This collective reform – you yourself are talking about a collective reform – is built on two things: One thing is, you're trying to boost consumption. – Yes, of course, this is always a legitimate way to create growth. At the same time, you know, you can't move entrepreneurs to invest. There have been low interest rates for a long time, but there is no investment, but that would be important. Only about consumption will it not work, Mr Katzian, and you know that! Mr Strolz referred to this CFO barometer. Do you know what the CFOs in Austria call the greatest entrepreneurial risk? – This is not the geopolitical situation, but it is the overregulation of the Federal Government. Two thirds of the CFOs in Austria say that the biggest entrepreneurial risk for me is that I do not know what the government will do next to burden us with regulation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Katzian.]] And you wonder that we have half a million unemployed in this country?- Oh, my God! That's really not a miracle. I would like to talk about a subject that has also been raised, which is the issue of education. This is the next area in which we believe that this Federal Government really fails mercilessly. This hat-change-dich of the national leaders in this reform group is actually a witness of poverty for the reform force, the alleged reform force of this federal government. I will tell you – it has also been addressed – what this has to do with unemployment. We are not in the situation, not at all in the situation, neither in Austria as a whole nor at least in Vienna, that we can afford to continue to have compulsory school leavers year after year, who cannot read meaningfully where a third of the students – you have to imagine this: one third! – who have left compulsory school in Vienna, are risk students in mathematics. [[Abg. Kickl: Could this have something to do with immigration? Is that imaginable?]] These are enormously high numbers, really beautified by training guarantees. The unemployment, the direct path to the AMS is preprogrammed. In this area, it is urgently necessary to make a reform. But there is nothing to do with it, except to discuss which head of state is in this reform group. It's the parents' meat, it's the students' meat, it's the teachers' meat, it's us. We want to see a reform here at last. That's urgent! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] I want a start in this country, Mr Kickl, and I want a turnaround. But I want them without you, and you know that, because what you stand for is not a mood of departure, it is not a start, it is a nationalist breach of dams, and I want them to be the least. [[Abg. Kickl: But it's going to be bad for you!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Street@item incidence access is by owner only]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e11428	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. – Thank you, Federal Chancellor. [[10:33:00]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e11450	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e11698	The debate on points 1 and 2, 3 and 4, 5 to 8, 10 to 13, 18 and 19 and 22 and 23 of the agenda is proposed. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e11722	A consensus was reached between the members of the presidential conference on the duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 9.5 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP each 128, FPÖ 119, Green 100 and STRONACH and NEOS each 52 minutes. According to § 57 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure shall be the speaking time for the entire agenda of those Members who do not belong to a club within the framework of this Decision per 26 minutes. In addition, the speaking time of Members who do not belong to a club is limited to 5 minutes per debate. We shall now proceed to the vote on the speaking time just presented. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[10:34:38]] 1. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (683, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Constitutional Act amending the Final Tax Act (748 d.a.) 2. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (685, e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, which amends the Banking Act, the Federal Act on the establishment of an account register and the Account Statement Act (KontRegG), the Federal Act on the Reporting of Capital Flows Act (GMSG) and the Federal Act on the Implementation of the Common Reporting Standard for the Automatic Exchange of Information on Financial Account (GMSG), the EU Office Assistance Act and the Office Assistance Act (749 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e11780	We now come to points 1 and 2 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. The first is Mr Klubobmann Strache. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e11807	Madam President. Mr. Minister of Finance! Ladies and gentlemen! We will, of course, experience today, within the framework of the tax reform or better the collective redeployment debate, if we call it correctly, that we are going to beat each other on the side of the government again; we have already experienced this in part during the current hour. One knocks on one's shoulder and insists on how good and great everything is supposed to be, but in reality, this tax reform has failed in the truest sense of the word, otherwise it cannot be described. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is an unsuccessful tax reform, in which many, many opportunities have been missed. We are European champions today, especially in the field of expenditure, because we have not been asked to reduce expenditure. In the field of administration, there has been no need to implement the reforms in order to reduce expenditure so that this money can get exactly where it is needed, namely for sustainable tax relief. This tax reform law does not include tax reform, but merely a wage and income tax reduction, combined with numerous additional tax increases and taxes. They will remain at the end. They have, on the one hand – this is justifiable – set up correctly in one area, namely the reduction of the tax rate on input, but this is too little on its own. They rightly lower the input tax rate, but do not ensure that the cold progression is permanently balanced. And that's the problem. That is to say, in the shortest time, in two years' time, this reduction in the rate of input tax and what remains more net of gross, if you do not finally do what we are going to bring in today in an amendment, namely to ensure regular adjustment of tariff levels. That's necessary. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] In the end, they have made no more and no less than they have been mentioned today: what has been taken away by the hard-working people since 2009, that is, over €5 billion by the cold progression, now stop giving back in the short term and let the cold progression eat again in two years. Well, good night, if you call that a discharge, well, then that's really nothing but a not beautiful acting, Mr. Krainer. [[A new call for tender. Krainer]] But well, you're not expecting anything either, Mr. Krainer. They have nothing to do with employee representation at all. They will be presented in Vienna for this, but this is their own chapter. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In addition to the zero-sum game through the cold progression, you will ultimately also have to account for a large number of tax increases – tax increases that affect the smaller and medium-sized entrepreneurs who meet the workers and the pensioners who fail you, Mr. Krainer. This is social democratic policy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Well, good night! Minimum pensioners, those who are compensation payers, stay on the track all the way! They won't even get this 110 € a year in the future. You've completely abandoned these: 230 000 minimum pensioners as compensation beneficiaries. This shows your social cold and that you don't think of justice in the social field at all and therefore rightly experience a rejection by choice of choice. And this will, of course, reach the peak in Vienna, Mr. Krainer. I am pleased when we will then continue to discuss this social justice debate. [[New welcome to the FPÖ.]] But let us also take the increase in the capital income tax to 27.5 percent – a next tax increase that will remain sustainable while the tax reduction will be pumped up by the cold progression. This, of course, is not only true of small and medium-sized enterprises. No, it also affects the Voest worker, Mr Jan Krainer, also the Voest worker, who, of course, is double affected by this because of the employee participation in the shares. The increase in the acquisition tax will lead to the introduction of a hidden inheritance and gift tax. Well, good night! This is exactly what the SPÖ is looking for, but in reality the ÖVP has fallen over again and has introduced a hidden inheritance and gift tax over the back door. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Furthermore, there is the increase in the maximum basis for social security contributions, which, of course, continues to burden the labour factor. Well, good night, on the subject: discharge of the factor work. And where are the reductions in additional wage costs that could bring exactly the economic impulse? Nothing like that is the case. But in addition, a classic increase in VAT is set from 10 per cent to 13 per cent in many areas, and in the end we are experiencing exactly here. Your economic and labour market impulses you spoke of. Are these the economic and labour market impulses you mentioned earlier? So I don't realize that, just the opposite is the case. And this, of course, leads to the fact that in times of crisis, recession development, we do not experience a boosting of the economic location and that it is not possible to stimulate the creation of new jobs, but rather, on the contrary, to see a rise in the number of unemployed. And that's just what's not responsible. This could have been done in time to get away with a record unemployment in the times of this crisis. This is only possible through sustainable tax reductions, by economic impulses, by impulses, by which companies and businesses also want to settle in Austria and thus create jobs. But, unfortunately, this is not God's given here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In the end, we have a development where, in view of current record unemployment, small and medium-sized enterprises are unfortunately not relieved, but rather burdened, and unfortunately there is no reduction in additional labour costs. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! They're going here and putting the entrepreneurs under general suspicion. There are all entrepreneurs who are suspected of being tax and tax evaders. Then one comes with the corresponding register obligations or with the general ban on smoking, which in fact puts pressure on entire industries and puts them in trouble. Are these your economic impulses for gastronomy and tourism? I mean, you're going here and you're also raising the depreciation period for buildings in the sense of simplifying tax law to 40 years. In terms of profit distributions from GmbHs, family GmbHs, you will have to expect a total tax burden of 45.6 percent from the first profit-euro. Are these the economic impulses you are supposed to have implemented so wonderfully? The opposite is the case. They abolish the education allowance and the education premium. Are these the impulses that should have a positive effect here in Austria? They come under red and black and afford to increase operating expenses by increasing the base for basic income tax. Are these the great impulses of the so-called former economic party ÖVP? You got fired as an economic party, dear ÖVP! Otherwise, you can't evaluate that. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ as well as with representatives of the Stronach team.]] This is a poverty certificate that is available to us today, but where you are going and are still trying to sell it as a great reform, as a great tax reduction, although the last Austrian has long heard that this is a pure deception maneuver. Red and black increases the maximum social security contribution base and ultimately also increases the labour factor. A reduction in additional wage costs will be postponed to the long-term bank, and only from 2018, you say, may it come under the condition of budgetary coverage. Well, good night! She'll probably never come. This means that we will not be able to achieve this coverage with a great degree of probability, after the Greek business of Mrs Fekter has not already begun. Great forecasts that we have heard from ÖVP and SPÖ politicians in recent years, which will all be a business! I recall, for example, the European Stability Mechanism, where it is about developing a debt union and thus breaking the Maastricht Treaty in cold terms, saying that we are breaking our own European Treaties, and with the help of the green people billions have also been paid in addition to Greece, which we can record today. Well, good night! And if we are not able to learn now, we will continue to increase the damage there, further help will flow down. The damage will be potentified again. A similar spectacle to the Hypo Alpe-Adria, where one was not ready for years to finally take part, and did not draw the consequences from it. And the families have forgotten you completely, dear ÖVP! Only 2% of the tax reform will be given to families by doubling the amount of the child allowance. This is not really the great discharge of family policy, which would be necessary. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] The 230 000 minimum pensioners, Mr Krainer, will look completely through the hands of the compensaters. Today we will also make a request and see what the social justice of SPÖ looks like and whether you are at last ready to make a necessary correction. Because they need it, they really have month after month too little to get through, and they need every cent. And that's about almost ridiculous €10 a month that you fail them. So that's not really socially fair. And, of course, we are going to make an amendment today to see what it looks like when it comes to justice to these small, minimum-guarantees. But the tax privileges of private foundations, with large corporations through group taxation, are not agitated. This is obviously also the new approach to social democracy. This can be seen further outside with hundreds of millions of euros, which can be missed every year where you can start. In this respect, we will make a request to restrict cross-border group taxation on EU and EEA Member States and finally to re-tax the foreign losses that are used domestically at the latest after three years of economic activity. This would be a socially just approach, the really great ones who can now be directed to take responsibility and not to leave out, Mr. Jan Krainer of Social Democracy! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The greatest case of sin comes only, you have already announced, namely to abolish the good Austrian banking secret, to make every citizen a glass man, so as to be able to look at Grandma's savings book in order to be able to control every account movement in the sense of the glass man, where ultimately every citizen and citizen is suspected and apparently to be prevented by your methods of doing some irregularities. To that end, I say: A financial official's slight forehead should be sufficient to be able to take an insight into the account of every citizen. Well, good night! [[Abg. Glauvisch-Piesczek: Such a fool!]] Well, that's where the greens play again, because they're nothing but the continuations of red-black. There, where red-black no longer has a majority, the Greens come to continue red-black and make no political change possible. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You have to make that visible. That's not a turn! [[Abg. Steinhauser: You don't want to change anything! You don't want any changes!]] The pink-reds, who ultimately say they want a change, ultimately do not want to continue anything other than the red-black policy as a possible third majority. This shows that the only alternative in Austria is the Freedom Party, and that also recognises more and more citizens. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] Because everything else sitting here in this house is mogel packs, small majority producers from pink red to green, who are willing to continue this wrong red-black policy at any time. That's not a change! This is the continuation of today's negative tax rate in Austria. If you really want to change, you can also bring about it with the Freedom Party by its voice, which gives it power – see Burgenland, soon in Upper Austria, but also in Vienna. [[Calls to the Greens.]] That's exactly what it's all about; I'm saying, We want changes of a sustainable nature and no continuation of the red and black load course. We finally want to replace this red and black mogel pack and ensure positive effects that this country needs. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And we need economic growth. Finally, we need incentives for the economy, reliefs for the economy, reliefs, so that small and medium-sized enterprises, individual businesses finally have air to breathe, and finally, through tax reliefs, additional wage reductions, we also have the opportunity to create jobs again. That is the command of our time. [[Calls to the Greens.]] But that's exactly what we don't find here today. And I say, This is not a package that you can be proud of, ladies and gentlemen! You should really go inside and live a little in self-reflection.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e11996	Next, Mr Wöginger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e12017	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Strache, two comments on your speech: On the one hand, you should not stand out here and speak of the Hypo-Alpe-Adria as a liberal observer, because it was your exorbitant liberal party in Carinthia who is responsible for this disaster, Mr. Strache! [[Congratulations on ÖVP, SPÖ and Greens.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Secondly, They have been applying for tax relief in this House for months on end. Now there is the biggest discharge for decades, which this Federal Government will jointly implement here today – a 5.2 billion heavy package. And what are you doing? – You go out here and criticize individual counter-financing measures. We'll be I would also like to say a few words, ladies and gentlemen, about the Freedom Party. Come on. You are now following what you have been demanding for months, namely a tax relief for the citizens of this country, and finally you agree with this package of laws! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] The people are given the impression by the liberals that this tax reform would not be a relief. Ladies and gentlemen at home in front of the screens! That's just wrong. This is pure populism. It is a 5.2 billion package, 4.5 billion of which go alone into the tariff, the wage and income tax rate. This concerns all the people who pay taxes. 400 million, ladies and gentlemen, go to the area of low-earners who earn less than 1,200 € gross, who are mostly part-time workers in this country and who in the future – from 1. In January 2016, this whole reform will be reimbursed effectively – €400 per year in the form of a social security credit. In addition, pensioners will benefit from a compensation allowance of 110 € per year, also in the form of a social security credit. And that's all bad for you, ladies and gentlemen, that's just not all right! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] We also double the child allowance from 220 to 440 €. It was also a great concern to my group to send a signal to the EIA and to provide greater relief in the tax area where children are at home. If two parents use this, it is even 300 € per person. And €200 million includes an economic package, especially in the field of research premium. What does this mean for individual citizens? I believe that it is essential, ladies and gentlemen, how this money will come to people, and we attach great importance to it. Let me give you a few examples: An employee with a gross monthly income of €1500 will be relieved by €485 next year. An employee, a single parent with a child and a gross income of € 2 000 will be deducted by €926. And an employee with a gross income of €3 000 per month will be charged €1 318. And someone who earns less than €1 200 – I have already mentioned this – will receive up to €400 in social security credit per year. This is a great relief for citizens, for taxpayers and taxpayers in this country! And we're on it. You should also do that, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] As it has been said here that there is no reform, I must resist it, and that must be communicated to the population as well: 5.2 billion € you don't shake out of your sleeve. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: Who pays that?]] And it is important to recognise what was done here by the Ministry of Finance, in particular by the Minister of Finance, in terms of counter-financing, namely that we have greatly reduced the field of new taxes. The focus is on self-financing. Around €900 million, all experts expect, the purchasing power is boosted, which also strengthens the economy because we return money to people. A tax and social fraud law will ensure that all taxes are paid, but it will all pay less taxes. And tax fraud and social fraud, also called in one, are not a cavalier crime, ladies and gentlemen. There's 1.9 billion set. And it is not right, Mr Strache, what you said, because administration and funding are shown at 1.1 billion, including in agreement with the federal states. And this is a reform in this area, which is also necessary. There are also changes in tax law of € 900 million and a solidar package of € 400 million. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a great reform, a great relief for the citizens of this country. In conclusion: We have a wormhead drop, that's the real acquisition tax. Although we confess to the construction pictured here, we would have had the wish until the end that a cover would be drawn in at the handovers because there are areas in Austria where real estate prices are high. This will lead to problems from my point of view. We have, until the end, tried to reach a solution. But we will, of course, carry the package in this form. Finally, we wanted a discharge, especially for workers' families, who gave homes to their own children, who also live there. That would have been our concern until the end. But the reform as a whole means a great relief for people in this country, and I am glad that we can decide in this way today.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e12091	The next item is the report by Mr Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e12112	Madam President. High house! The banking secret is history. Who would have thought that? A few years ago, no one would have believed that a government would dare to abolish banking secrecy. Now it has happened, also against the resistance of the population. And if you believe what's going to happen to the government, there's a lot of people out there who have to be caught now. So it's about fighting fraud. Only if you look at it carefully and look at all those areas where the government has been doing nothing for years, namely in those areas where the Court of Auditors keeps saying: When the private builds, it costs 100 percent when the state builds, it costs 150 percent, and if the public hand builds, on average it costs 200 percent!, then you have to say that the money is hidden there, there is a need to fight fraud, but there is nothing done, for years! The President of the Court of Auditors is always sitting where you, Mr. Finanzminister, are sitting today, saying the same thing over and over again, almost for decades. We should look into this once and for all, there should be a fight against fraud on the agenda, where you could become active. But no, you want to see what the citizen has so much on the bank and where the citizen's wealth is so. And it's not about fighting fraud, it's about something completely different, and I haven't heard that here today, but the core of the matter is quite different. They have not been able to do anything for decades, nor have their predecessors, in the pension sector, in the health sector, in the care sector and in all those areas where there will be a collapse in the next few years. Since you know that all these systems are no longer eligible for funding, you are now eliminating banking secrecy to tap into this great treasure, namely the 200 billion bank balances that the Austrians have on their savings books. That's why it's finally happening! It is about finding out where the citizens' money is, and then accessing it, very specifically. And that's where the SPÖ is at the front. For the SPÖ always dreams of wealth taxes. And what is closer than someone who has acquired a pension claim, but on the other hand, has saved himself a bit from using this savings money, and then finally paying a minimum pension? And that's exactly what the SPÖ wants. The SPÖ wants this redistribution, i.e. if someone has saved his life for a long time, then he should be welcome for his pension as well. And the other person who has not saved his entire life, who has always lived only by the state, is to be fully financed by SPÖ-Wanier. This system of non-profit redistribution is to be promoted here. And when the greens come in here, there's a door that never goes back. [[Call the Greens.]] That is to say, we now have the transparency we always wanted, we now know what the citizen has on the savings account or which accounts are to be assigned to the citizen, and the next step is quite natural. You say yes, okay, now there are security mechanisms, but if you open this door, and you last confirmed that when the discussion is open once the bank secret has been abolished, then this door will not go on. And then we're right where we don't want to go. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Abg. Steinhauser: Completely unsuspecting!]] Then we're where you probably want to go, but where I don't want to go, at the glass citizen's. And what I want is not the glass citizen, but I want the glass state. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] When it comes to the glass state, you, Mr. Finanzminister, can take a look at the nose. Because today the APA is the news that you have gotten a comparison across the HETA, across the heads of the HETA leaders, with the Bavaria without informing anyone, not even the HETA Boards have been involved. And you're throwing Bayern at least one billion behind without waiting for what's going on in the investigation committee. In fact, in the Committee of Inquiry, the signs are more and more consistent that Bavaria was properly involved in this loss and showed guilty behaviour. And it is not a question of throwing behind the back of all the Bayern over a billion and giving them a guarantee and making secret negotiations across the ITA, but it would be a question of allowing transparency to prevail and involving all those who have something to say here too, and not even after the Bayern money. That's what I'm expecting. I expect a transparent state and not a transparent citizen. And that's exactly what it's all about. It's about me mistrusting the state, and that's why I don't want the state to know everything about me. I don't know how you're out there. Do you want in times of taxes over 50 percent that the state knows everything about you? Do you want the state to look into your accounts? Do you want the state to do that when it increases taxes far more than 50 percent? We are already in an area where taxes are already over 50 percent, because we have to remember that once you have delivered all of your taxes, you pay VAT and you also charge taxes on the products – in these three days we will also hear that even now a hard disk charge is added. That is, the state is taking action everywhere, and that's why I'm saying: I don't trust the state. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] I am distrustful of the state, and this distrust is also justified, as long as there is a Minister of Finance who, behind the back of the citizens, distributes billions to institutions that have not deserved this in the event of an item. And that's why: Let's leave our fingers off the accounts of the citizens and create a transparent state!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e12182	Mr Krainer is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e12227	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Lugar, as regards the abolition of banking secrecy: I mean, one can do this in a tax procedure or that the financial offices can open accounts, that was the case so far, that is, the door was already open. [[Abg. Steinhauser: It is pointless to explain this to him! It's a shame for the speaking time!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek.]] It only often took years to get up the door because the possibilities for tax evasioners to resist were simply too big. Now you create a more efficient system where, as in the past, it is possible to open accounts, only faster, but still with a reasonable legal protection. If you have a political line: We want to support those who do not pay taxes honestly, but who misuse banking secrecy in order to withdraw taxes!, then it is not up to you to do so. I can only say that we have agreed with the Greens by the government that we no longer want bank secrecy to be misused by those who simply want to withdraw taxes. They should pay their taxes as honestly as the millions of Austrians do, and stop cheating on everyone else. That's why it's okay, and that's good and right! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] It is a good day for Austria that we come to the standard that most countries have, namely, a rigorous fight against tax evasion. Tax evasion is not a cavalier crime, tax evasion is theft at the company, theft at all of us, theft at the neighbor. That must be an end, and it is good that we decide this today. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek.]] However, they were not the only ones who today gave some kind of interesting things of their own. I have to say that Mr Strache always supplies enough material to talk for an hour about what he has claimed here, which has little to do with reality. [[Abg. Kickl: (showing on the flashing lamp at the speaker's coil) And it's flashing already! That's how the lamb shines!]] For example, he claimed here that the Voest workers would now be taxed because of the changed capital income tax if they had shares in the company via the employee foundation. – Yes, there is a burden here, but what is the burden? [[Abg. Strache: Yes, there are...!]] Now I am not talking about the wage tax, but only about it when I look at the following: If a Voest worker buys Voest shares within the framework of employee participation – only this process – what tax advantage does he have compared to the present situation? You know that? Do you even have any idea what you're talking about? [[Call the SPÖ:No!]] – €600 net saves every Voest worker through this tax reform, because we increase the amount of the allowance for employee participation from €1 400 to €3 000. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That means that what you say is that he is being taxed or that he pays more taxes is wrong! 600 € net each Voest worker pays less taxes through this tax reform, without the wage tax – this is still on top of it! That means that what you say is typical: either You don't know, or you claim against better knowledge completely false things. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] They make themselves a patron of all kinds, including the minimum pensioners. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Let us look at how the minimum pensioners were treated in this country when you were in the government! Do you know how often the minimum rates of inflation have been increased? [[Abg. Kickl: I don't know what pensions you're talking about!]] [[Abg. I don't know what you're talking about! ... on the inflation rate!]] Do you know how often that was the case in the seven years? - Zero times! Zero times! [[Abg. Arbitrator: This is a scandal!]] And do you know how often that has been the case since the SPÖ was in the government? - Every year! That's the difference – Blue: Talk!, Red: act! [[Abg. That's a total nonsense you're saying!]] – You do the opposite! Quotes of the FPÖ regarding pensions when you came to the government: We can't raise pensions to inflation because the pensioners have gotten a great deal of fun. [[Abg. Strache: Do we have at the minimum pensions...! All lower pensions have received an inflation adjustment! What are you talking about?]] Because the reds have increased the pensions too much by 1999, it is now necessary to make fewer. And the next thing is that everyone has to be clear when the FPÖ is in the government – it has already shown what it is doing – that it will not increase or even shorten pensions again. [[Abg. Kickl: The luxury board you get!]] [[Abg. We'll cut your pension, Mr. Krainer! Your pension and the National Bank Directors!]] That's what happens in truth when the liberals have something to talk about. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Strache has, in particular, absolutely gone up on one thing to say that Mrs Fekter had claimed that Greece was a business. [[Abg. I'm sure! That was a big quote!]] - She didn't. She claimed other things. I mean, I've been sitting in the investigation committee for months now, and you don't know how many quotations I can literally give you from liberals from Carinthia who claimed that the hypo was a super business for Carinthia. [[Abg. Kickl: You said it was too cheap to sell! That was you!]] A super business! We'll be rich! – For years the blue was told from heaven, and what is the truth? – The truth is: This millstone hangs not only Carinthia, but Austria on the neck. [[Abg. Strache: Let's ask your clubman! Let us ask Klubobmann Schieder who has the nationalization to answer without need!]] This billion-dollar business has only been a business for I don't know who – at least neither for the Carinthians nor for the Austrians! And you put this bill into us! And somehow make yourself a patron here when we spend months... – Then ask colleagues Podgorschek! [[Abg. You don't believe that!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] He always gets very small when he hears all the quotes that are given by himself. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This hypo, you have to answer! The liberals have this to answer and no one else. [[Abg. Podgorschek: Do we want to list them in a row, the blacks and the reds involved? Don't throw stones when you sit in the glass house!]] I can only tell you one thing – to come to the acquisition tax for a short time: The idea of saying that I need a lid, that is, up to €500 000, €600 000 can all pay fully, but no one is supposed to pay more than the one who inherits 500 000 or 600 000, I say once, from his parents – that is, someone who inherits a property or a house worth a million, 5 million, 10 million, 100 million, whatever, I need a lid; so below may be paid, no more than those who pay in the middle – this idea, I am sorry, that is not carried by social democrats. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] The acquisition tax was your idea, stand by it! Ours was another one, you know. Our idea was that those under one million don't pay at all and pay for them first. Your idea was another one. And now to believe that we are doing the opposite, that only up to a million people are paying and no more, that is of course an idea where you do not need to wonder that this is being rejected by social democracy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e12578	Mr Klubobmann's next speech is Dr. Strolz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e12600	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear citizens! We decide today on parts of the tax reform. I think that some law will be passed in the autumn. We NEOS will not go with most of the materials today, because we cannot go along with content. I already carried it out in the early morning, Minister: 98 per cent of entrepreneurs, one-person entrepreneurs, traders, small and medium-sized enterprises, those you, colleague Haubner, should represent, say 98 per cent of them: This tax reform does not encourage me to create new jobs! All right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, We will not create new jobs! And the vast majority of entrepreneurs say: I will not make any additional investments due to this tax reform! That is, in Austria, the biggest problem we have in this country is getting worse, and since I see many young people in the gallery today, I have to say: This is a special problem for boys like middle-aged and old people. We have an unemployment, as it has never seen this country since 1953. We have not seen such unemployment for over 60 years. We have 500 000 unemployed at Christmastime. We are expected to have another 100 000 unemployed at the end of 2017, when this tax reform comes into the first phase. In 2017, 600 000 will sit under the Christmas tree without work. This is a tragedy for this country! If you say, Mr Lopatka, that Wifo says that everything is wonderful, then I can correct you again: The Wifo clearly states that the tax reform will have no effect on economic growth in 2016 – that is, in the first year it is a complete zero number – in the second year, 2017, only 0.1 percent and by 2019 only 0.2 percent will create economic growth. [[Abg. Lopatka: Yes, what?]] We have put the proposals on the table, as we can create 150 000 jobs over the next eight years. [[the speaker holds up a brochure]] It is classically cut into the expenditure – classically because it is to be done, not classically because you don't do it, there is no tradition of these two parties in this regard. They must cut into the expenditure on pensions, in the case of luxury pensions, pension privileges. It is not about the ASVG average pension, which is €840 for women, because we do not have to cut in, but rather about pensions in the area of Mr Häupl, which maintain the privileges by 2042, and we have to pay all these things. I don't see that! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Until 2042! It is unheard of that the ÖVP does not stand up here and says: We're knocking on the Lord's fingers! - That's not okay. If so, then he should pay for it himself, then the state princes should go to the tax autonomy. You don't trust it because you don't have the courage to do it. These princes are not necessary for anything! In education policy, they confuse everything with power policy, and if power is not given to you – the teachers belong to us, dumb, dumb, dumb! – then you stand up from the negotiating table and you're gone. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] This is a robbery of the future on the back of young people! We will not support this, not in the tax reform, and we will not support it in education policy. One word for the account opening and the account register: In the meantime, this has looked good, because the government has moved in this regard, because the Greens have finally also been able to get through to open up only to judicial decision, and what has happened? [[Abg. Lopatka: What's back?]] [[Abg. Lopatka: And what is the problem now?]] We have supported the criticism that has come from the Constitutional Service of the Federal Chancellor's Office, the Federal Data Protection Council, the Data Protection Officer, and from decorated university professors, and then you have the unfrozenness to forward your changes to us two hours before the committee meeting? – [[Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek: Yes, and?]] [[Abg. Lopatka: Yes!]] This is not a working parliament! [[Abg. Brosz: And have you read it now?]] That's a naughtiness – first of all. Secondly, They have not taken into account the main criticisms of this criticism of leading parties, nor our criticisms, and we are calling for referral back to the Committee today. [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: That's not true!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] We have clearly formulated five points – I have just put them on Facebook on my page, I have just weathered them –: If these five points are fulfilled – these points are also carried along by the Constitutional Service of the Federal Chancellor's Office, by the Federal Data Protection Council – if these five points are fulfilled, and for that we must negotiate again, for no one has negotiated with us yet, then we will carry this solution with us! [[Calls for Greens]] Only when there is serious conversation. [[Abg. Lopatka: You have broken your word!]] That is why the referral back to committee today. Give the modern working parliament a chance! [[Abg. Brosz: You needed... to read the application?]] These Ho-ruck actions you always make, they're not okay! That's not my picture of a working parliament! I'm disappointed by the greens: Two hours before the meeting, that's always your tactics! [[Abg. Brosz: That was last..., wasn't it?]] Don't be allowed to negotiate and then overrun. [[Abg. Lopatka: That's unbelievable!]] [[Abg. Auer: Not reliable!]] I can't do that, my lords! We won't do that!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e12837	Next, Mrs. Klubobfrau Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e12858	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Dear guests in the High House! Sometimes I'm really wondering: It must be possible, as a parliamentarian, to read an application within nine days, right? [[Abg. Stroll: 2 hours! 2 hours!]] - Is that all right? I mean, that's not too much to demand. [[Congratulations on Greens, SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I do not believe that the Constitutional Service or anyone else has any negotiation to take place, but these are the leaders of parliamentarians. The banking package, as it is now on the table, is an extremely clean solution, and, Mr Klubobmann Strolz, if you do not agree with this, you are absolutely verbal, because everything you have always done very loud – without any concrete proposals, but only very loud – is shown in this law to be 100 percent. [[Abg. Stroll: Read what...! Read it!]] I don't understand your world anymore! [[Congratulations on Greens, SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Meanwhile, you are moving in a populist, insanity direction. Of the old NEOS, who actually wanted to see the positive, nothing left at all – but okay! I also wondered about the liberals, although I should no longer wonder about them, because the liberals on the subject of tax fraud, corruption, clean financial area, international data exchange, as far as tax fraud is concerned, should not be surprised at all, but what is now in place for the decision-making process are central demands of the anti-corruption state attorneyship, which has strongly insisted that there is a central account register that must be dealt with nationally and internationally – and you reject it today! But this is obviously the FPÖ site policy, where you want to give Russian oligarchs or any other discreet opportunity to hide your money in Austria. [[Call the Greens: Right!]] But this is not our location policy! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Kickl: ridiculous! Free yourself from your prejudices!]] A forward-looking location policy is a clean financial place, and what is happening here today is a trend change, namely that Austria is making a fundamental change in the tax fraud field internationally and nationally. For years, Austria has been criticized together with Liechtenstein, Switzerland and Luxembourg to be something like a paradise for people who want to hide money. [[Abg. Kogler: Right!]] We know that 28 EU countries are making very great efforts to bring up the billions that are lost every year but that they would need to expand their social systems, to strengthen their education systems, for difficult financial times, for debt situations. The states need these resources, and we can no longer afford to have four law firms, distributed in Liechtenstein, Switzerland and Austria, moving money, for people who have not only one account, such as most Austrians, but who have up to 20 or 25 accounts. We are talking about them, and no one has lost one word about them. This is disappointing, because this is a very important issue, namely the fight against tax fraud in a large way, nationally and internationally. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The Anticorruption Procuratorship has always had a fundamental problem: If she wanted to open accounts within the framework of her procedures, she had to write to each of the 800 banks in Austria if a person has an account. I emphasize: All 800 banks in Austria! That is why many cases, including very prominent ones, have taken place over the past few years, and in the public there has been the impression that finance, but also justice, does not look closely at prominent procedures. One of the key issues was that there is no central account register. This central requirement of the Anti-Corruption State Procuratorship is being implemented today, and this will significantly facilitate the control of those people who can afford to do just these multiple accounts – I have already listed them – too. Now, Mr Strache, now he's gone again: I wonder how you can say so untroubled and completely free of expertise in any way, when you start a financial official, every account can be opened. - That's absolute mess! [[Congratulations on Greens, SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I think you must also be willing to read a law. The Constitutional Court has once said that a law can only be properly implemented if the mandates are also able and ready to read what they decide. But you just took the talk about the last time and didn't see if anything had changed at all, and that's already remarkable. [[Abg. Tamandl: Exactly!]] - But what am I wondering? I'd like to get to the heart of the matter now, so: What is the balance between tax fraud and data protection and legal protection? – This has been solved extremely cleanly. First of all, the four-eye principle in finance – that is, it is not enough for a financial official, and not a forehead at all, but the four-eye principle – comes a judge. In the past, the person concerned also has the opportunity to open his account voluntarily if there are reasonable doubts. There are very strict criteria when it is possible to go to the judge at all. The judge shall examine whether these criteria are real. Then the judge gives his good, and only then can an account be opened. – I think you can't solve that much cleaner. You have not made any concrete proposal! [[Abg. Stroll: Five points on...! Five specific points!]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] Now run with your forehead! So that's really a mystery to me! I'll talk for a few minutes, you'll be back. As far as the whole problem is concerned, which exists in Germany, namely that social offices may also have access to information, it is even constitutionally assured that this must not be in Austria. What do you want? What else are you doing? – It is constitutionally secured! In the explanatory remarks, it is explicitly clarified that no account opening can happen in the context of the classical employee accounts, which is also intended to happen automatically at some point. – I don't know what else you can wish for. If you are really interested in tax fraud, read this bill, because it contains a very important point, namely: In April 2012, the agreement on the taxation of Austrians in Switzerland was signed with Switzerland. It's only on the 1st. In January 2013, a number of people who had hidden their money at that time came into force, which gave them the opportunity to bring it back under Austrian banking secrecy. There will now be a law, a capital outflow notice law aimed precisely at this period of time to look closer to those persons who obviously needed to send their money into the circle. These are certainly not the people mentioned in the Styrian election campaign, but people who can invest a lot of money for a lot of staff, namely dozens of tax consultancy firms, in order to send their money into the circle accordingly. Another important point to make clear what we are talking about: Our focus is on the big fish, on large-scale operational tests. In the negotiations, we have encountered the problem that two financial officials of an entire Armada often face lawyers and tax advisers. We would like to make these tax audits easier and at the same time to keep an eye on them. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] All in all, the tax reform is a truly clean package, a reasonable package that adds fairness to the Austrians. I can't understand how you can't agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e13033	The motion for a resolution just tabled by the Cubob woman Glawischnig-Piesczek is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e13098	Mr Schelling spoke next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e13119	Mr President. Estimated colleagues from the Federal Government! High house! It has already been discussed in great detail about this tax reform, and as the Federal Government, we have set ourselves three objectives which we are implementing today with these draft laws. One goal of the Federal Government is to generate growth and employment. [[Abg. Stroll: I just read out!]] It is simply not true that this will not be the case, because a self-financing effect of 17 percent will massively stimulate economic growth in the field of consumption. – Dear Matthias Strolz, that also confirms the IHS and the Wifo – you have to look at the numbers and know how to interpret them. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Stroll.]] The second point I would like to mention in advance, because unemployment is the subject of: It would be nice if you would give it to the record that we have record employment. This is also an effect that we must take into account and that we have never had before. It is a good signal that measures have also been taken. Nevertheless, much is still worthy of improvement. The third short point, just one sidestep: It was I who said to Mr Mayor Häupl that he should do something about pensions – that is what I just wanted to hold. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Stroll: (with raised thumb) That's right!]] – The answer is well known but is not the subject of the debate on tax reform. The second goal we wanted to achieve is discharge. [[ÖVP representatives shall keep tables with the ÖVP logo and the heading ‘tax reform’ and handwritten slogans up, including ‘anyone shall benefit from the tariff reduction’, ‘research premium increased by 12 %’ or ‘less taxes, more on the stock exchange’.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, a discharge of over €5 billion is already a volume that has a lasting effect, and in a difficult economic situation it was actually not easy to solve how to counter-finance this sum. That's why that's the main point. [[Abg. Kogler: Individual Taferl, that’s what I find once! Severly painted!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I have always said from this point of view: We're making the biggest tariff relief! I have also always said that there is a need for a principle debate on the tax reform that we will have to carry out in the next few years. [[Abg. Kickl: (in the direction of the representatives of the ÖVP, who still keep the panels in height) written off by the SPÖ!]] And the third major objective that this Federal Government wanted to achieve with the tax reform is simplification. I would just like to mention two examples of where simplification has already succeeded or will succeed. The first point is the issue of applicationless family aid. This concerns 80 000 people per year. Over 40 percent of the volume is already running without application after eight weeks. In addition, we have jointly decided in the Federal Government that we will also bring the automatic annual compensation from 2017. This means a huge relief in the administration, but at the same time it is a service close to the citizen for all people who make an annual balance. Another relief, for example, is the reduction in the number of social security contribution groups, which will provide a clear relief in the area of wage accounting. Summa summa is sure it's a balanced, balanced package. I do not wish to fail to thank my interlocutors, especially Mr Josef Ostermayer, on this occasion. It was hard negotiations, but they were constructive and fair. A few hours ago, I read that there was still a fight about last things and the mood was bad. But I can confirm: No, we have negotiated constructively until the last moment, and that is good! I would also like to thank the Green Club for its cooperation. It was difficult to solve questions, there were difficult discussions that we had, but I believe that as Mrs Klubobfrau Glawischnig-Piesczek presented it, we have achieved a good solution. That's what counts at the end of the day! If someone here makes himself and claims – as Mr. Lugar does – that one can look into accounts, then I can only say: Mr Lugar, if you read what is now available as an application, then you will You stand out here and say: I'm sorry, I said something wrong, for the other word, which is not – you claimed it, so stand by it too! [[Abg. Lugar: That the government!]] Do you also agree that you will be the opposite as soon as this request is decided? [[Abg. Steinbichler: Stand for this too!]] The tax reform, ladies and gentlemen, is now based on two large blocks. The one block is that part where we can make two-thirds of changes. I would like to point out once again the point that Mrs Klubobfrau Glawischnig-Piesczek has also mentioned, namely that some things are still covered by constitutional law, so that there is no arbitrary extension, for example at the point of view of the accounts. We decide today to exchange data automatically. This is a global project on which the OECD has worked in a leading direction. I think this is fair and good, because if you discuss tax planning, tax formulation and tax evasion, then it becomes clear that these phenomena will only be solved at international level. That we also have to do our homework is not a question, but if this phenomenon occurs in a networked international economy, then we have to solve it internationally. Another point concerns the assessment of accounts. Such an assessment of accounts may be carried out only with judicial approval. By the way, this was also a call for, for example, NEOS, which is now surprisingly saying: That's not enough. We need five more points. [[Abg. Stroll: There you need to talk to us!]] This is not exactly the procedure that seems to be very serious, because either we have solved the problem by means of judicial approval, or we have not solved it. [[Abg. Stroll: Fig leaf!]] We have solved it, but it is up to everyone to agree. The third is the Final Tax Act, where we make a split between the 25 percent KESt on the Saving Book and 27.5 percent on anything else. Of course, if you say you don't want to, you also have to say to the savings account holders: We are in favour of you being taxed higher! Whoever agrees to the law, however, brings this splitting with 25 and 27.5 percent as a result of the fact that we act very, very gentlely where it concerns low incomes. In connection with the tax reform, there is a whole package of laws. Many points have been negotiated, and many points have been very good results. I would like to say: There's a balanced result. The attempt to secure and finance part of this tax reform by combating fraud should be of course in this House. And if someone here says, I am against it, then he must be quoted in the public as a patron of those who withdraw taxes. We hope not all do so together, and that is why this package is a big one. [[Abg. Kickl: You've also enjoyed this, apparently throughout the last years! What have been the whole of the last years?]] If we have entered those areas that were particularly important to us, we have introduced an administrative cost brake, will act in the promotions, this shows that we have actually achieved what we have done within the framework of the feasible possibilities: counter-financing on seroos legs, which means that we do not make new debts through it. We have also prevented everything that means new taxes, and changes have been made within the tax system. Who now criticizes that VAT has been increased from 10 percent to 13 percent, I would like to say to him: This is also a change in taxes, as is the reduction in tariffs from 36.5 to 25 percent! [[Abg. Kickl: Yeah, you just forgot about the progression, otherwise it'll be all right!]] But of course this is difficult for you to sell: that the tariff reduction that the liberals have been demanding for years is now being carried out! You can confess to your own demands here. Unfortunately, you do not succeed, because as soon as you are responsible, you change your mind daily. I therefore believe that the proof can now be given whether or not you agree with your own request for a reduction in the VAT rate. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I think this is a balanced, good package. I'm looking for all of you to agree. It would be a good signal for Austria if this tax reform were to be unanimously decided upon. This will not be the case, but with your disapproval you must also be pleased that you cannot book the positive in this tax reform on your account. [[Abg. Podgorschek: We will stand up to that!]] - Well, I'm not sure with you. Mr Podgorschek, I am not sure now; we need to discuss this. We will do that in detail, but unfortunately no more today. [[Abg. Podgorschek: Today you have to go to Brussels!]] I should be in Brussels at 12 noon. However, I did not let it take place on this issue, so important for the Austrians – that is the greatest discharge we have ever made – to take the floor again and ask you to give this bill the consent. – Thank you very much. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[11:31]] [[11:31:10]] Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e13341	Ladies and gentlemen! Following Mr Finanzminister's conclusions, I note that the Federal Chancellor's Office has made the following communication in addition to the communication on the representation of members of the Federal Government who are present in another Member State of the European Union: The Federal Minister for Finance Dr. Hans Jörg Schelling will now be appointed by Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Andrä Rupprechter. We wish the Minister of Finance a good trip to Brussels and a good nerve in the difficult discussions. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Arrived to the command output!]] The next item is the speech by Mr Podgorschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e13389	Mr President. Federal Minister! I did not want to say to the now divorcing finance minister – ‘separable’ because he still has important tasks to do in Brussels – to address this business in Brussels, which was then done by his predecessor and which is still to be saved, but I am afraid that this business has long since gone into being. I would like to return to two speeches before I go back to the real subject, namely Mr Krainer and Mr Wöginger. I understand from colleagues Wöginger that he does not know better, because he is hardly in the committee of inquiry. It's a bit of a pity. But at my colleague Krainer we really do: If you sit in the glasshouse, don't throw stones! Just a few examples: The previous information was almost all in the vicinity of ÖVP and SPÖ. The one who represented Mr. Landeshuptmann Haider on the Supervisory Board of Hypo, Landesfinanzdirektor Felsner, is by chance the municipal council of SPÖ in Brügl. The Board of Directors or the Supervisory Boards of the Kärntner Landesholding, which were among the owners, were all ÖVP-near persons, including Mr. Martinz, who was already known to be condemned. The second owner of the Hypo Alpe-Adria is the Graz mutual, and this is certainly not suspected of having to deal with the liberals somewhere. [[Abg. Kickl: A well-known precursor organization!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] The Bank's former Board of Directors, Mr. Kulterer and Mr. Striedinger, are both from the ÖVP sector, and above all: Mr. Kulterer was originally employed by the head of state Zernatto at the time. – Only so much advance to a so-called liberal scandal. After all, you have prevented a committee of inquiry from being set up more than 20 times. - So much for Hypo Alpe-Adria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But let us now go to the actual item on the agenda, the main problem of financing this collective reform. I am quite right to say to the Minister for Finance: We liberals were in favour, we liberals wanted a reduction in tariff levels, and we also wanted to do so. The problem is the so-called counter-financing. I'm totally missing her. The only thing that occurred at the end of the government or the Minister of Finance is a deep distrust of its own population by accounting for €1.9 billion from the so-called tax fraud measures. That is, if this bill does not occur, then this tax reform will go exclusively at the expense of our public debt, and I am firmly convinced that it will not occur. For example, the university professor Schneider from Johannes Kepler University in Linz, who is a recognised expert in the so-called black economy, has himself said that Austria, Switzerland and Germany are the most tax-honored countries and that we Austrians are still the most honest ones in Europe. There are quite other countries that are not honest, such as the Greeks who will continue to persecute us with their tax dishonesty. [[Abg. Kickl: They're being saved right now!]] That is, it is this deep distrust of our own people, which I feel is the real scandal. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] This measure is subject to the following obligation to register: With permission, please: Italy and Greece have an obligation to register. So this measure will certainly not be effective, it will only burden small businesses and small businesses. [[Congratulations with FPÖ and Team Stronach.]] Or the account register: From my point of view and from the point of view of the liberals, this means nothing but a first step towards the erodement of fundamental rights. What you want is nothing but the glass people. The next step is that in the future we will have access to all social data and an insight into who will receive what aid and support. This is a completely seamless development. It has continued in recent years. This begins with a storage of data – it is justified by the fight against terrorism. – It has nothing to do with it! This is about passenger data storage, also because of terrorism. – Nothing used it! The terrorist must is not at the door, but it is already in the middle of us. Then there are the fingerprints and the IP addresses that need to be saved. Where does that lead? – To a marginal state of à la Metternich, which we have already overcome for a long time. But we are on the best way to this marginal state, and all under the title of so-called justice: Tax justice, equality – all these left-left terms that are now gaining us more and more. I have believed that we have long overcome this ideology, but unfortunately we are in the middle of it. The next step, I am already prophesying, will be the abolition of cash. The aim is to abolish the cash in order to also have control over the consumption behaviour of people. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] – Mr Auer, you laugh, but you will see that we will discuss it in a few years. There are already European countries which, like Sweden, have taken into account the abolition of cash and the restriction of cash. The next step will then be the abolition of the inviolability of property. All of this is always demanded under the cover of “justice ” and“ equality. ” My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, I can no longer see liberal approaches in your ranks, I can no longer recognize that you are still an economic party. The economic operators are now much better removed from us. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the Stronach team]] .. In reality, we taxpayers are paying us this collective reform, this discharge, ourselves. It is not financed by savings that would have been necessary for a long time. This is nothing but a redistribution from one bag to another. A real discharge would also mean that the tax and tax rate would be reduced, and this would only be done with comprehensive structural reforms. From this point of view, I have often listed enough examples of how this is possible. The key to this is the financial compensation, as it cannot be that revenue and expenditure competence are separate. That's part of a hand. [[Abg. Auer: I'll give you that!]] That is why the discussion on the possible tax sovereignty of the countries is also taking place. Finally, it also belongs to the transparency database for all the funding provided by both the country and the municipalities, so that this is finally made transparent. Since we are in Upper Austria just ahead of a country election and I see how much money is still available in Upper Austria, I have the agenda of the government meeting of 6. It was a coincidence yesterday. As regards the social sector, I have checked how many subsidies are granted: Of 19 payouts alone are 12 payouts – 12 payouts! – in the field of integration. This means that various associations, which partly make the same, are funded with amounts of 30 000, 50 000, 70 000, 80 000 €. And then it says again and again in the media, there is no asylum industry. This is proof that there is an asylum industry, and that it is not about integration, but about abcashen at the expense of taxpayers. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Yılmaz: Incredible!]] [[Abg. Kickl: That's really incredible!]] [[Call the ÖVP: populist!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, what we need in the next few years is not a glass man, but a glass state.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e13538	Next, Mr Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e13560	Mr President. Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Yes, in recent years there has always been a clear call for more net of gross to be heard, it has become louder and louder. Workers' associations, but of course the entrepreneurs also wanted their employees to stay in the wallet more. I think we're reaching this goal that everyone has given us today. It is a fact that the collective reform is today one of the largest reforms in the Second Republic and that it is worth €5.2 billion for workers, but also for entrepreneurs. It is a total relief that benefits everyone, namely, the employees on the one hand, and the economy on the other. Today, the Minister of Finance has already carried out, he has already tightened the WIFO and IHS forecasts in this regard, that we will have a growth boost, and we will also drive private consumption. I think these two measures are important and correct. If you look at export development over the next two years, you can see that we will also have increases of over 4 percent, which is very important for the export-oriented economy in Austria. We know that 6 out of 10 € we earn in export, and that's why this export-oriented economy is a very essential factor. In the end, however, the reform of tariffs, and I would also like to stress this, will of course also benefit entrepreneurs. 500 million euros flow to the entrepreneurs, especially to the one-person companies, to those who are a growing number in Austria, so we also have a corresponding impulse. The tax reform will already bring about a growth impulse, which the Minister of Finance has carried out. This alone shows the high level of self-financing of 17 percent. I'll come back to all the counter-financing. However, I would also like to point out an essential point: the increase in the research premium from 10 per cent to 12 per cent, because especially for Austria as a research and innovation location, it is very important – and of this it also benefits 2,000 companies – that this research premium has been increased. In particular, the management companies in the regions cooperate with many small and medium-sized enterprises, and there is this innovation boost, this driving force for a strong economy. Today we also decide crowdfunding – for the young entrepreneurs and for the start-ups also an important impulse. What hurts me a little – and I do not make a murderer’s pit from my heart – is, of course, the permanent criminalization of entrepreneurs. I would like to say quite clearly here: It is the entrepreneurs who create jobs. 2% of the population create 80 percent of jobs. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: You never notice that! Then take action for the economy!]] I would ask you to let us keep talking about the entrepreneurs! [[Abg. Peter Wurm: Always these Sunday speeches! Everything!]] Even though we are talking today about the business's payment morals: The morale of our businesses is excellent, ladies and gentlemen. The red and white-red economy carries the main burden of social systems at €25.7 billion. I would also like to say that quite clearly to you, because that is essential. On the comments of Mr Katzian, who has always said today, now that the workers are on it, I have to say clearly: Who pays for the accident insurance for workers? Who then pays in the family compensation fund? I think we have to do it together. There's no point in playing out against each other and running this class struggle, which the SPÖ keeps being brought in here again and again. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have put in place a few measures that are important and correct. There are a few who, of course, also make a contribution to the overall. If I take account of account registers and accounts today, I have to say, that corresponds to our rule of law. That's right and important, we've achieved a lot together. Thank you. Mr Strolz, I would like to tell you that we are negotiating the negotiating table and not Facebook. [[Abg. Stroll: Then we have to invite it!]] [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: eh invited!]] I think you said first that you agree with the whole thing, and now you're not in it again. So I think that's where you have to look for the fault of yourself! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Calls and calls between representatives of NEOS and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, all in all: We are adopting a reform that gives impetus to the tax rate. On the other hand, I would like to make it quite clear that it is important that we now undertake the necessary reforms and that the next time we discharge them are entrepreneurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e13673	The next time is Clubobfrau Ing. Dietrich speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e13695	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The tax reform clearly goes beyond the objective if the objective is to stimulate economic growth. If we have heard today that WIFO says that €5.2 billion commitment for 0.1 percent economic growth, then, Mr. Haubner, I cannot understand at the best of my will that you are talking about an economic shift, of a growth boost. I say quite honestly to you that labeling 0.1 percent as growth boost is absolutely unjustified. [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Stroll.]] We are a group that does not now see everything negative and want to speak badly, individual areas of tax reform are quite positive – if, for example, the individual has more money in the stock exchange. But you have to say: That's the money that was taken before him! If, in the framework of the collective reform, the steps are getting flatter, then this is absolutely okay. But, ladies and gentlemen, the fact is that we have a problem, and this problem is called cold progression over years. And this cold progression is income-reducing. In this area, it would really be time to finally take measures to adjust the level of inflation adjusted so that people do not have less purchasing power from year to year. That's a way we'll definitely go. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Ladies and gentlemen! But the price of the tax reform paid by the government is very, very high. This is the price of the opening of accounts, and that is the price of the registers. This federal government, colleague Haubner, and not the opposition parties have the image that they are criminalizing the entrepreneurs. They are exclusively criminalized by this red and black federal government. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] This federal government has built an image that I believe it cannot be your wish image. It can't be that you want to stand for contemplation, control, distrust and glass citizens. But you've built this image. Have With the End of Bank Secret You're breaking a taboo. The banking secret is such a high value of every individual, which belongs to the Austrian's self-understanding. None, not the Mizzi Aunt, not the Grandma, nobody wants to look into her savings book. [[Abg. Tamandl: We don't look inside at the Mizzi-Tant! That's so wrong! That's so wrong what you're saying!]] You say now, you don't look inside, but you allow the first thing to be captured by the account register, who has assets, and that, of course, the first step towards wealth taxation has been taken, consciously or unconsciously. They are on their way to wealth taxation, and we deeply reject that. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Abg. Tamandl: Work with the matter once!]] Mr Tamandl, your colleague, Mr Schützenhofer, spoke massively against banking secrecy before the elections, and if you now believe that it is the right way to end banking secrecy and create glass citizens, then I tell you, then I can only understand Mr Schützhofer's statement as his own election aid and he was never about to really protect the citizen seriously. [[Abg. Tamandl: in the amendment!]] [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Abg. Not at all!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that the Greens as a control party – this image is building up – are looking for control not only for those who are concerned with fraud, but for them to criminalise the small citizen, which is to be rejected from our point of view. [[Abg. Steinhauser: That's what we have!]] [[Abg. Steinhauser: judicial approval! You have no idea!]] [[Abg. Steinbichler: That's what the right one says!]] The government is really going a way that is not acceptable, and the government is from our point of view in a role where one has to question the quality of the handshake. [[Calls and calls between Steinhauser and Steinbichler.]] Formerly, the SPÖ politicians still had handshake quality. For what they have said, they have confessed. And today? Bank secret? – The Federal Chancellor said that this is so important, that we must protect with two thirds. But where is it now? – Dissolved in air. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nice to meet you.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The tax reform is the way in the wrong direction, absolutely in the wrong direction, because by criminalizing the registers regulation They are small companies and drive it so far that fewer and fewer people in Austria will be willing to be entrepreneurs. But we want a state that strengthens companies that motivates young people to finally take the courage to go into independence so that we can get out of this spiral of unemployment. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] In this sense: We will not agree to the load package because it is really a burden in the sense of criminalisation that we do not support.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e13875	Next, Mr Magistrate. Kuzdas. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e13896	Mr President. Mr. Federal Ministers on the Government Bank! So at €5 billion in discharge to speak of a load package, that's an art piece, quite honestly! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, in today's debate on the first items on the agenda, we are dealing with necessary changes to the tax reform. 5 billion € in relief for almost 7 million people – never before in the Second Republic; from the opposition from the beginning, trained, praised by national and international experts, Bofinger and Fratzscher have already been quoted. The discharge is of course also linked to the fight against tax fraud. With these laws, which we are now discussing, we are achieving greater tax justice and more tax-honority. And, Mr Podgorschek – I don't see him now – I think it's also in your interest that honest taxes are paid. And for the honest taxpayer, nothing changes, even for the honest entrepreneur, nothing changes through the register. That's probably where we agree. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Podgorschek.]] It must not be that only some finance the system, but all of them benefit. The central element of counter-financing is also the central account register. And colleague Dietrich and colleague Lugar, you are very far from the truth. Or have you not read the legal papers and the legal protection that the Greens have negotiated?- Oh, my God! You stand in the corner and say no one is talking to you – just like NEOS. [[Abg. Dietrich: That's not true!]] You have refused the negotiations! The Greens have said: Yeah, let's get into the race and negotiate. I am not the mandatory defender of Hermann Schützenhofer, but he has said he is against opening the accounts without a judicial decision. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schönegger]] – So, we have that now, and I will tell you again how it works. It shall decide on the legality of the view of the accounts by a judge of the Bundesfinanzgericht. A copy of the consultation of the person responsible shall be attached to it or to the written record of why the hearing has not taken place. The signed request for information, the official and the leader – four-eye principle – complete a detailed statement and a legal protection officer complete this legal protection. This is also an improvement towards earlier data protection. There is no talk of arbitraryity, abuse at all, not at all of incisiveness and others. But Mr Lugar has postulated tax fraud as a success model in the Financial Committee. This is the tax truth that the Stronach team obviously strives for. Today, however, we also decide on the capital outflow and capital inflow notice law, which obliges credit institutions, payment institutions and the Austrian Federal Finance Agency to report capital outflows and inflows to the Federal Minister for Finance. The inflows are about transfers from Switzerland and Liechtenstein. In this context, I would also like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Finally, one sentence on the cold progression, which the Agenda Austria calculates for the years 2009 to 2015 with €11.5 billion. I'm allowed to put it right here: The increase in wage tax revenue over the period considered is 7.4 billion, since the cold progression cannot be 11.5 at best. So there is obviously a serious error in the calculation of Agenda Austria. You shouldn't believe everything that this institute gives of itself! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e13972	The amendment tabled by Mr Kuzdas in his main text is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. It was distributed in the hall because of its size. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e14473	Next speaker: Mr Themessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e14494	Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Yes, the only positive thing about this tax reform is the reduction of the tax rate. We have been demanding for years the reduction of the tax rate of input from the original 36,5 to this 25 percent. And that's very positive. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] – Yes, you know, we have already called for this, since the ÖGB has not yet known that the entrance tax rate is 36.5 percent. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] We have already tabled the first proposals in Parliament. If you look at this tax reform, which is to be decided here today, in detail, I wonder what was there last week. [[Abg. Krainer: the application!]] Mr. Federal Minister, you are the only one sitting here who was there last week when the 2015 Economic Report was presented at the Academy of Sciences. You've talked about that, too. The German Chancellor, Mr Vice-Chancellor, Mr Finanzminister and Mr Infrastructure Minister also spoke. This 2015 economic report is indeed not a luxury sheet in itself, you have to admit, because the economy is not as good as you always try to sell it here from the government bank. It was really bad. If I have then heard what the Minister of Economic Affairs and Vice-President said on these future requirements, on this tax reform, on which further action for economic recovery in Austria has been taken – he has stressed, among other things, the reduction of red tape, the withdrawal of excessive regulations, the facilitation of business transfers, a reform of the trade order and, and, and, and again and again, also the growth to be achieved by this tax reform, as Mr Haubner has also said, that WIFO and IHS have responded very positively to it – then I can only ask the government parties one question once: Do you really know how often WIFO and IHS have declined their forecasts in the quarterly period in recent years? – Four times a year, because there are four quarters. Each time the positive forecasts were withdrawn. That'll be the way it is. If I hear the Greens' accusation that we want to protect the taxpayers, I'm saying that's not true! Of course, tax fraud must be combated, but take a look at what is planned for counter-financing in the context of this tax reform: All this has nothing to do with tax fraud, these are tax increases! [[Abg. Brosz: This is another law, which is the agenda items 3 and 4!]] If you take the increase in real estate income tax if you collect the real estate tax, where the basis of assessment will no longer be the unit value, but the transport value if you assume that building depreciation will be extended to 40 years – i.e. it is a higher annual tax performance – if you assume that the increase in the maximum contribution base of social security means an increase in additional wage costs, and if you still go here and increase the tax on accommodation companies from 10 percent to 13 percent, then this is probably not a tax increase either. As I am currently on this issue, something about the permanent red tape declared or announced by the government. If you go to a guest house today, stay there and have breakfast, then it will be very funny as far as bureaucracy or red tape is concerned. You pay 13 percent VAT for the night and 10 percent for breakfast. That is to say, the total amount has to be calculated. Getting In the Future Then you will no longer receive an invoice for a night with breakfast, but you will receive two invoices, once overnight with 13 percent VAT and once breakfast with 10 percent VAT. [[Abg. Kuzdas: That's nonsense!]] – So much for your much-announced red tape plans. All this together leads to the fact that the discharge of small and medium-sized income by this income tax reduction, which is quite welcome, is, of course, ad absurd due to all the counter-measures planned in the course of the counter-financing. You will see in at the latest one, two years that this tax relief and what is left in the Stock Exchange, as you have announced here, will be stuffed within a very short time. I'm just telling you one thing: A tax reform looks different!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e14578	Next, Mr Magistrate. Rossmann speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e14599	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! I would like to deal with the bocks of NEOS and Mr Strolz. We had 8 on the 8th. In June this special meeting, there was an application, and this request stood inside – you will remember well, Mr Strolz – “no opening of accounts without judicial decision”. Furthermore, you then said in an interview in the “Standard” that you would agree to this new arrangement, i.e. a regulation with a judicial decision. So, in between, ten days pass, then, in the principles, there is agreement between the Greens and the Government on account registers and account views. Then leave out an OTS issue entitled “ account insight only with judicial decision is a victory of citizens”. – Very right, I can fully support and sign it. But I do not understand one thing, Mr Strolz: Why vote You don't want to close to a bank package here and today, which is an excellent package? [[Abg. Stroll: You have to listen, simply!]] [[Further calls to the NEOS.]] Yes, the referral is political refusal anyway, let us hold it. And this Facebook entry from your colleague Niki Scherak, do you know what that is? – This is politics by Facebook. [[Abg. Scherak: This is a constitutional statement!]] But we do politics, please, here in the House and not over Facebook. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If you had anything to complain about this draft, you would have tabled an amendment today and here! They had a whole week to read and study this amendment. The argument with the referral back is really clear. It is no longer possible, Mr Strolz. [[Congratulations on the Greens and on representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strolz: We asked the Ministers in the Committee!]] As in the context of the Steiermark election, where you have tried with Scheina arguments, with panic arguments to make everything ready. You have come from the Federal Republic with the comparison and have said that everyone will now keep an eye on the accounts. That's a stupid thing, it's all been wrong. I corrected that at the time. They have therefore come up with absurd arguments, such as: Every Austrian is suspected of being a generalist. That was all panic, and these were all claims that simply proved to be wrong. You just wanted to earn political change. Now you are doing the same again in competition with Mr Klubobmann Strache. Apparently, before the Vienna election, you are once again looking for a pack on the issues of tax fraud and the evasion of tax secrecy, because all the demands made by Mr. Scherak in his Facebook entry – the right to respect privacy, the protection of personal data, the legal protection of citizens – are 100% fulfilled in this bank package. [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: This is a blog!]] [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: Don't!]] [[Abg. Stroll: Don't stand in there!]] Voices You're here and today to this bank package! [[Abg. Meinl-Risinger: No, Mr Rossmann, no!]] The same applies, moreover, to the representatives of the FPÖ: If you do not agree with this package today, which meets 100 percent of your demands, which goes far beyond that which, by the way, also meets all the demands made by the Constitutional Service, then only one remains. [[call to the FPÖ.]] – Yes You need to read the amendment before you submit a referral request! But if you do not agree to this request here and today – yes, you can show it, but read and understand it too – then only one remains: [[Abg. Stroll: (a document holding high) There he is!]] [[Congratulation with the Greens as well as with representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP]] They are and remain the patron of the tax evaders in millions! That's it. On the other hand, we have spoken in the negotiations with ÖVP and SPÖ, because we have fulfilled everything we have promised in the special session, i.e. we have no view of the account without a judicial decision. We have said that there will be no insight into the social offices. We have a two-thirds election here, so social offices will not be able to keep an eye on the accounts registers, will not be able to ask questions. We will deal with the big fish with our capital outflow law. This is a huge success, because the so-called scraps from Switzerland and Liechtenstein are now in a real trap. This is not about the little ones, Mrs Dietrich, no, it's about the big fish. The figure is €10 billion for “retirements” from Switzerland alone. – And we have also assured that employee charges are largely excluded. One thing has remained open, but we have tabled a motion for a resolution, a resolution which has so-called aggressive tax planning on the subject, and I now want to make this motion for a resolution. It will be presented to you because it is so extensive and I would now like to explain this motion for a resolution to you in its broad outlines: The large corporations operate with the help of:
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e14755	Mr President, I have been told by your club, even on request that you read the request. I made the offer to distribute it too, but your club told me you were reading it all. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e14771	All right, all right. So I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] In conclusion: This bank package, along with this motion for a resolution, brings Austria from a dark past, in which tax evasion was regarded as a cavalier offence. That is now final. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e14878	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Rossmann is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e14998	Next speaker: Mr Auer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e15022	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Some previous speakers, namely those of the opposition – with the exception of the Greens – said today that the tax reform would have missed a chance. Right, these colleagues have really missed an opportunity, namely for new impulses. This tax reform will provide impetus for purchasing power, and stronger purchasing power means higher economic growth, boosting employment. And I have a certain problem, especially in the case of employment, whose situation has been rightly or unjustly complained of today. Ladies and gentlemen, I have looked at some of the daily news from last Saturday: “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten”, “Kurier”, “Salzburger Nachrichten”, “Standard”. In all these newspapers you can read job offers on the page, in each of these newspapers you can see job vacancies. I would like to ask myself, if so many are actually reported as unemployed, why it is not possible to communicate these open spaces. I wonder. There would be an urgent need for action. Or is there really that situation, as is sometimes claimed to be different between the unemployed and the involuntary? That's what I wonder when I see this newsinserate. Ladies and gentlemen, because very often competition is also addressed: If, thanks to perfect employees and also relevant managers, Austria's company is able to be so experienced and successful in the world market, speaking in export, that of ten employees six are secured by export, I also ask if competitiveness is not given. I had an interesting conversation in a relatively large company in St. Valentin, where the manager confirmed to me that he was grateful for being able to produce in Austria. If he had to produce in Italy, he would have to count twelve full days of strike. He does not have this problem in Austria because the employees do excellent work here. Ladies and gentlemen, you should respect that too. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It is also interesting that there are important Austrian companies that sell, export and therefore compete between 80 and 95 percent of their products on the world market. Of course, you can still do something to make something better, not even a question, but you should also see the positive things. And stability, ladies and gentlemen, we need these, especially for our companies, for our location. “Stablety is the opposite of standstill”, this statement comes from Wolfgang Schäuble, the German Federal Finance Minister. With this tax reform, we have made a significant contribution to the stability of this country, because of course there are certain uncertainties about the geopolitical situation, the economic situation, the financial situation. That's why you've been responsible and you've implemented things. Even the most critical opposition speaker has some times come the confirmation of the lips: Yes, there are some points of this tax reform that can be praised. But, you always say. Mr Podgorschek, I am pleased that at least part of what is being done here has also found the approval of your critical colleagues. Thank you for that. [[Abg. Podgorschek: That was our demand!]] It is at least a positive approach to appreciate that positive things have also happened here. [[Abg. Podgorschek: Jacob, that was our demand!]] Ladies and gentlemen, we should not forget, therefore, that it will be important to also show that this tax relief of over €5 billion will bring a major boost to the economy for which employees of this country will bring. Ladies and gentlemen, there are, of course, some pain, which is also said. The increase in the pre-tax rate, the turnover tax to 13 percent, is particularly busy in agriculture in some areas, that is undisputed, at some specialized farms. But in total, you should see the positive and the total. The preservation of our family businesses, which is also the basis of this tax reform, is an important aspect, and we therefore also need the signal that the basic income tax is taxed according to the unit value and is not subject to substance taxation. I would like to express a clear no to such an advocacy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the tax reform is a good foundation. It should be a first step, but further steps of structural reforms must follow.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e15097	The next item is Mrs Tamandl's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e15118	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning, I might want to make the entire tax package happen a little bit revue, because today the opposition has often claimed that this tax reform, which would be nothing that would not bring much. I don't think you can talk about nothing at €5 billion. I would like to add a few more aspects, such as the reduction of the tax rate on input to 25 percent. I think there has been no political group in this House that has not called for this in recent months and years. Or, for example, the increase in the border from which the peak tax rate is applied, from 60 000 to 90 000 € – this is an improvement for the middle class and that is also something that needs to be emphasized. At the same time, the child allowance is doubled to €440, and with an amendment to the next item on the agenda, an automation is still being examined so that the child allowance can be applied automatically by the parents in the future. That is not nothing either, it is a long-standing demand of the family associations and, above all, of the Catholic family association. And if one speaks all of this badly, ladies and gentlemen, then, I believe, one has not dealt with politics and politics for people. Today we also decide to increase the employee's participation tax-free from €1 460 to €3 000. It's already been praised today. What I can't understand, however, is that we have not succeeded in improving or favouring all the other 80 percent employees who are employed in companies that are not in a stock company. We could not achieve that there was also a beneficial Taxation for successful participation is available. Unfortunately, I can't understand. But maybe we can do this in a few years. We're still here for a while. It is also contained in the government programme. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But I would also like to talk about a few drops of advertising, because if a tax reform package were all satisfactory, then a government would have to be a single government. A government with two partners, of course, always means a compromise. It really hurts me very much when individual members of our coalition partner ask that the tax be only €10,000, that children who inherit from parents and live with them in the common household have fallen on the butter side anyway. I can't understand that at all. If one speaks of justice, then one must also exercise justice and see that children are not overly burdened. For us from the ÖVP, it is worth leaving children something. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In conclusion, I would like to come to the issue of bank accounts, the actual negotiating matter of this current debate. In the Financial Committee, a great deal of discussion has been made about how this amendment has been tabled. This amendment provides a good picture of this, and it is known that it has already been said a few times today: The head of state Schützenhofer, but also the head of state Pröll and the Minister of State Brandstetter have called for judicial control and a court order. This request is now included in this amendment. It also provides for a return option. And it is also ensured – contrary to what has been said in the draft, which was in the review – that in the case of claims, there can never be a bank view, but only in the case of audits and that the taxpayers can already resolve all inconsistencies in advance. I would also like to agree. Mr Rossmann has already heard it in the Financial Committee. I have already praised Mr Rossmann in this respect. It's supposed to happen here, too. We are fighting more or less of us again and again, but I have to say that this decision is really a good decision. It can't be the talk of beings, nor of the Mizzi-Tant that you look into the account, but it's about fighting fraud and it's ensuring there's judicial control. No one will be wrongfully consulted on the bank account. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot, of course, be satisfied with everything, but in general, we can only see positive aspects in the case of a 5-billion relief, not only for workers, but also for farmers and also for farmers, for example in the area of social security compensation. In this sense, I hope – the NEOS are already in hard negotiations in this respect – that the NEOS will also agree to the bank's view and will not break their word.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e15207	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. First of all, the present referral request must be voted on. With regard to the draft law in 749 of the Supplements, there is a referral request from Mr Dr. Strolz, colleagues. I shall immediately vote on the draft law on a federal law amending the Banking Act, the Federal Act on the establishment of an account register and the Account Statement, the Federal Act on the Reporting of capital outflows and of capital inflows and the Federal Act on the Implementation of the Common Reporting Standard for the Automatic Exchange of Information on Financial Accounts, the EU Office Aid Act and the Official Assistance Act, to be amended in 749 of the Supplements, again to the Financial Committee. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. Vote on agenda item 1: Draft Constitutional Act amending the Final Tax Act, including title and receipt in 683 of the Supplements. Since this draft law is a federal constitutional law, I first put it within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to agree to this draft law to a positive sign. – This is accepted by the majority. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. [[Bravoruf at SPÖ.]] We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is also accepted by the majority. I, in turn, expressly establish the two-thirds majority required by constitution. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Agenda item 2: Draft federal law amending the Banking Act, the Federal Act on the establishment of an account register and the Account Statement, the Federal Act on the Reporting obligation of capital outflows and of capital inflows and the Federal Act on the implementation of the common reporting standard for the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts, the EU Amtshilfe Act and the Amtshilfe Implementing Act, together with the title and receipt in 749 of the Supplements. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Zakostelsky, Krainer, Mag. Mr Rossmann, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment or amendment. First of all, I shall vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary or amending proposal and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Since the present draft law, as well as the amendment or amendment mentioned above, contains constitutional provisions, I first of all note the presence of the constitutional number of Members. Deputies Mag. Zakostelsky, Krainer, Mag. Rossmann, colleagues and others have an additional or amendment concerning Art. 1 and Art. 3 introduced. Whoever wants to give his consent, please give a sign. – This is accepted by the majority, and I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by the Constitution. vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. – This is, in turn, accepted by the majority, and I expressly define the two-thirds majority required by the constitution. We shall come to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft, to a sign on this point. – That is, in turn, the majority, and I, in turn, state the constitutionally required two-thirds majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Zakostelsky, Krainer, Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues on improving the test activity in the large-scale test. Whoever is here, please give a sign. – This is accepted by the majority. (E 92.) Debates of the European Parliament Zakostelsky, Krainer, Mag. Rossmann colleagues on the implementation of measures against ‘aggressive tax planning’ by large companies. Whoever is for this, please give a sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. (E 93.) [[12:28:59]] 3rd. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (684 and 684 d.a._Other Organiser Federal Act, which amends the Income Tax Act 1988, the Corporate Tax Act 1988, the Re-establishment Tax Act, the Income Tax Act 1994, the Gambling Act, the Income Tax Act 1987, the Standard Consumer Tax Act, the Federal Tax Code, the Financial Tax Law 1995, the Export Reimbursement Act, the Financial Compensation Act 2008, the FTE National Foundation Act, the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act, the Farmers' Social Insurance Act, the Civilian Health and Accident Insurance Act, the Unemployment Insurance Act 1977, the Labour Market Policy Finance Act and the Health Insurance Structure Fund Act (Tax Reform Act 2015/2016 – StRefG 2015/2016), and the Federal Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the the the Law on the the the the the the the the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on Amendment 69/A(E) by Mr Heinz-Christian Strache, colleagues, on more income by reducing the wage tax to strengthen purchasing power (750 d.B.) 4. Point Report by the Financial Committee on amendment 1226/A(E) by Mr Mag. Bruno Rossmann, colleagues on ecological change – the green model (755 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e15414	We come to points 3 and 4 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. First speaker is Mr Dr. Fuchs. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e15444	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! High house! Values Advisors! This Tax Reform Act 2015/2016 does not include tax reform, but only a wage or income tax reform, which is linked to numerous tax burdens. In reality, from 2016 onwards, taxpayers will be returned €5 billion, which they have already been taken away from since 2009 by the cold progression. The Federal Government is now calling this partial repayment of overpaid taxes as a discharge. However, the cold progression must be stopped immediately, so I am submitting an amendment which provides for a regular adjustment of tariff levels to inflation. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In addition to this zero-sum game by the cold progression, there is also a large number of tax increases for workers and pensioners: the abolition of special pot expenditure; Increased Kest – as our clubman has already said; also the Voest employees and many other employees who have benefited from share participation models will now have to pay more taxes. There is also an increase in the maximum contribution base in social security. Furthermore, there is also an increase in real estate income tax and an increase in turnover tax. And it comes – which is completely incomprehensible – to introduce a hidden inheritance and gift tax by increasing the income tax. And: Where are the exceptions to the basic income tax in the family sector which you have announced to us in the Financial Committee? – So far, we haven't seen anything of it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is what the Federal Government in the Strategy Report refers to as “perceptible tax reliefs” for workers and pensioners. There was nothing out of the great relief of the families, as announced by the ÖVP. Only 2% of this tax reform will benefit families through the doubling of the child allowance. By increasing the child allowance, an average family saves €5.50 per month. That's 18 cents a day. The Federal Government does not seem to have any more money left for the families! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The Federal Government has also announced the following major: In the future, pensioners who do not pay a wage tax will benefit from a refund of social security contributions in the form of negative tax to a maximum of € 110 per year. The Federal Government has, however, kept an insignificant detail to the pensioners, namely: Only the smallest pensioners, the 230 000 members of a minimum pension, will look through their fingers and not receive the € 110, which the Federal Government has promised them. [[Call the FPÖ:Nice!]] The failure of this tax credit for minimum pensioners is unfair and discriminatory for two reasons: First of all, the weakest among pensioners, namely the compensaters, are affected, and second, it is mainly women. I therefore propose an amendment so that the micro-pensionists will also receive the tax credit of 110 €. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In view of current record unemployment, it would be essential to reduce small and medium-sized enterprises, particularly in the case of additional labour costs. This government, however, makes the exact opposite: It puts the entrepreneurs under the general suspicion of levying, and imposes higher charges on small and medium-sized enterprises. However, the tax privileges of private foundations and large corporations within the scope of group taxation are not shaken, although the Republic of Austria thus escapes hundreds of million euros annually. I am therefore submitting an additional proposal which limits cross-border group taxation to the Member States of the European Union and the European Economic Area, and in addition, foreign losses that are used domestically will need to be re-taxed at the latest after three years of economic activity in the country. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Finally, two examples of the new red and black millionaire relief rate: At a gross monthly content of 84 124 € – monthly, not per year! – this top earner is relieved by €2 171.62 a year. Only at a monthly gross income of 87,898 € – monthly! – remain 32,91 € annually less in the Millionaires Stock Exchange. However, a monthly discharge of €9.17 should not be possible for pensioners. – So much for social democratic tax justice!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e15525	Mr President, I have not been able to hear any explanation of the amendment that was announced. [[Abg. Fuchs: All right!]] Is this the next speaker in your group? I cannot let that be considered such. Please do this to the next speaker. [[See also p. 133.]] Next speaker: Mr Zakostelsky. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e15557	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a preliminary amendment to the Income Tax Act, which is an amendment tabled by Mr Zakostelsky, Mr Krainer, colleagues, and would like to discuss the most important amendments in the near future. On the one hand, the conditions for automatic employee involvement are created – important for our citizens. Another important change concerns the refund of deposits. The plan that all profits must first be paid out forcefully before deposits can be refunded will again “be caught”. The entry into force of the increase in turnover for accommodation establishments will be reached at 1. ==References====External links== This ultimately reflects the practice of tourism. A key point in connection with the registers – a slight improvement towards practical orientation – is the following: The obligation to use an electronic recording system is known to exist under this law from € 15 000. In the amendment, it is now amended that there must be another condition, namely that at least € 7 500 of these are cash revenues. Another point, quite practical, is some relief for automatic operators. The whole amendment therefore represents an improvement both for workers and for the economy, and the whole is also in terms of administrative simplification and practical orientation. I would like to thank Mr Krainer and his colleagues for the hard but intensive and constructive negotiations in the framework of the parliamentary process. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would also like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, a lot has already been said about tax reform. I would like to stress – you can read this – that I have always expressly spoken about a tax relief reform about a year ago. Of course, such a name deserves this reform only if, at the end of the year, our citizens remain more net of gross in their pockets. The result, says the draft law that we have today, should also convince the last skeptics. In the end, you can only claim something else against better knowledge. The tax reform brings concrete changes in three areas and, I would say, improvements for our citizens: First of all, the area of discharges already mentioned, the second growth and employment impulses, and the third, the simplifications and strengthening of the citizens' proximity, which have also been supplemented by the amendment proposal. Let us briefly deal with the first point of discharge. The reduction of the tax rate to 25 percent alone brings all taxable persons Citizens more net of gross. You know the invoices: On average, each Austrian and every Austrian will have 1 000 more in the bag. Even the classic 50 percent peak tax rate only takes off the tax reform in the order of €90 000 annually, which is a concrete strengthening of the middle class. In total, the collective reform presented here alone brings a savings of €4.3 billion for all people in Austria. But essentially, ladies and gentlemen, because it was also addressed by the colleagues of the Freedom Party: We have achieved a first breakthrough in the area of families with the tax reform. Of course, we have to take further steps, that is not a question at all, but we double the child allowance from 220 to 440 € – at least a doubling. The fact that the percentage of the total volume is so low is because the overall level of tax reform has reached such a high level of volume. Finally, the tax reform also enables low-paid and pensioners to apply for the reimbursement of social security. The pensioners alone benefit around €70 million. To sum up: The discharge package will make our citizens feel massive. This is also the second point I have raised, namely the impetus for growth and employment. In addition, we promote the willingness of the Austrian companies to innovation by increasing the research premium from 10 to 12 percent, a measure that will also be observed internationally and is therefore very important in terms of location policy. We also double the tax-free employee share and also lower the minimum contribution base for self-employed – all measures that attract and make the Austrian economic location more competitive. The third point, the simplification and proximity of citizens, has already been raised several times in my speech today. In the case of social security, the tax reform will bring about changes that will make our citizens' everyday lives easier, and I believe that is very important. Already since 1. In May 2015, the family allowance is paid out without a claim and quickly and uncomplicated. In order for this path of de-bureaucratisation to continue, we have submitted a request to grant the child allowance without application. I am convinced that the relevant preparatory work will be completed in the Federal Ministry of Finance by autumn. Furthermore, fewer social security contribution groups, automatic employee involvement – all these are topics that will help our citizens to manage. In contrast to many claims, it must also be said at this point that counter-financing is on healthy legs. It is not a tax reform on pump, it is a tax reform which, on the other hand, entails very useful measures. On the one hand: Around 17 percent are borne out of self-financing, an amount of approximately € 850 million. €1.9 billion comes from the fight against fraud, another €1.1 billion from the areas – which you have also repeatedly mentioned by the opposition parties – simplifications in administration and consensus In the field of social security, social security, social security, social security, social Finally, €900 million comes from the removal of exemptions from tax law – which also makes a significant simplification in tax law – and, in order to complete this, a certain amount, the smallest part, from the solidarity package. Ladies and gentlemen! Give yourself a back: Get away from political change! Follow the reason and vote unanimously in favour of the tax reform here! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e15697	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Zakostelsky is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e15767	In this context, I have a request to the clubs, in this case specifically to the ÖVP Club: Please put forward motions for resolutions, which will be read by Members – no, everyone – to the Bureau in such a timely manner that I can also read them in order to see that the request is also in line with what is being read. I have now tried to remember the words, and I have been able to see the agreement because the request is not too long. But I would like this request to be made to the clubs. Secondly, a statement or correction of my previous finding. [[See page 129]] After studying the Minutes of Mr Fuchs' speech, I note that he has referred to the request, at least in the broad outlines, in such a way that it can be considered to be introduced. Moreover, the application has been distributed in the hall, so that all have it at their disposal. – I ask you to take note of this. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e15956	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e15977	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! A big throw is certainly not this tax reform. Above all, the word “reform” is not really appropriate, but it is rather a tariff adjustment. However, this change in tariffs is undoubtedly necessary, without question: Firstly, in view of the cold progression, and secondly in view of the stagnant net real wages per capita in recent years. I would once again like to try to see a global assessment of this tariff adjustment and of the counter-financing measures from various points of view. I start with the distribution aspects: What do the distribution effects look like? The government – and since both government parties – is constantly trying to persuade us that this is a distribution-orientated tariff adjustment, because the lower incomes would be more relieved than the higher incomes. This is also reflected in the impact analysis on the government template. However, it is true that all these studies on the distribution effects show exactly the opposite of that: On the one hand, studies by the Economic Research Institute, on the other hand also an analysis of the budget service, and finally a work that we commissioned from the Greens with research assistants of the Economic University. It is clear that the lower incomes are less relieved than the higher incomes. As an example, I take the work of the budget service into account: It can be seen that the household income of the lower two deciles – the lower 20 percent of the households – is reduced by only 1.4 and 2.1 percent, while the upper income areas – i.e. the eighth and the ninth decile – are reduced by 3.8%, as we are already at the top. The highest incomes are still reduced by 3.2 percent. – As one can speak of distribution justice in this context, I am honestly obscene. This has different consequences: First of all, this tariff will be a disadvantage for women, which is inextricably disadvantaged, because only one third of the relief is due to them; they are particularly strongly represented in the lower levels of income. Men, on the other hand, benefit disproportionately. In particular, the fact that the already uneven distribution of income is becoming even more uneven is evident: The shear between men and women continues to grow. Even more blatant is the difference between the bottom and the top in the distribution situation among pensioners. A special scandal is that the many compensation recipients, namely 230 000 people in the number, are excluded from the negative tax, because in this case they would be charged with reductions in their compensation allowance. In this context, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Why am I bringing this amendment, or what is the aim of it? – The aim of the same is to ensure that the compensation beneficiaries also benefit from the negative tax of pensioners of 110 €. If it were to remain with the regulation we now have, it would not only be irrelevant, but would also lead to discrimination against people, in this case of low-income pensioners. However, because lower income tax relief is far too low and higher, growth and employment effects are also similarly limited. There has already been a lot of discussion about this today. The Economic Research Institute has also found that growth impulses range between 0.2 and 0.4 percent of GDP, but accumulates by 2019. According to the fact that €5 billion of tax relief is decided, the employment effects are extremely modest. They are between 5 400 and 8 100 according to WIFO calculations. This money could have done much more than the government did. But what is missing in this tax reform? – What would make a reform a real reform, namely structural reforms in the fields of ecology and an increase in tax justice by strengthening capital-related taxes. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In fact, ecology is the loser of this tax reform, but then my colleague Christiane Brunner will go into it separately. The winners of this tax reform are once again the rich, the super-rich, the foundation millionaires, the foundation billionaires. These remain essentially outside, although the distribution of assets in Austria is extremely uneven. In Austria, we have the most uneven distribution of assets according to the USA. [[Abg. Kogler: That's how it looks!]] The top percent has a third of the total net assets, the top 10 percent over two thirds, and the lower 50 percent only over 2.2 percent. If we want to have a fair, fair tax system in Austria, it is essential to tax assets higher. An approach is our 90/10 model, which we presented in the course of the tax reform and repeatedly put to the discussion. It is true that 90 per cent of taxpayers are taxed and 10 per cent are taxed, namely the reintroduction of an inheritance and gift tax, including an inheritance tax for private foundations, and an increase in the basic tax. I do not want to let go of this, because two thirds of all EU countries do not have inheritance taxes and gift taxes, only Austria. [[Inter-call at the Stronach team.]] I think that's unbearable! 17 out of 28, I'll tell you exactly. That's where you can calculate. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Instead, the government argues about this revision of the acquisition tax. The increase in income tax is certainly a problem because it does not have an exemption. The basic acquisition tax, which is amended, applies to all of the first euro. Our model of inheritance and gift tax provides that the first €500 000 will remain tax-free. This enables the lower 90 percent to be kept out of a tax with an inheritance tax. One last word on counter-financing, because Mr Zakostelsky said that it was so safe: I'm not so sure about this, I think it's more likely it's on tones, because the self-financing effect is much too high – given the fact that the lower incomes are much too low. That's the one point. The second point: The €1.1 billion in administrative reform has not been explicitly explained in any way. How this is supposed to flow into the State's cash registers is still open. It must be assumed that there can be a budget gap in 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e16094	Both the amendment tabled by Mr Rossmann and the motion for a resolution tabled by him are sufficiently supported and are under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e16355	I can now also say that the amendment tabled by Mr Zakostelsky in the broad outlines, which has now been distributed, is properly tabled and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e16889	Next speaker: Mr Krainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e16911	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Rossmann, I believe that, in fact, exactly what you are calling for is a tax-structural reform - and nothing new - is in principle the continuation of the government's fiscal policy, which started in 2008. Tax reform 2009 – at the beginning is the problem: In Austria, taxes on labour are very high, taxes on capital and assets – also in international comparison – are very, very low. How can we gradually reduce taxes and taxes on work and make a fairer contribution to this? This has happened in the first five years of this government, namely that it has reduced taxes on labour – in the 2009 reform, the wage and income tax by €2.5 billion – and that has gradually counter-financed with bank charges and other capital and property taxes – correction of group taxation, higher tax contributions from foundations by removing tax privileges and so on. This is actually just the logical next step, but it is much bigger, almost twice as much as the 2009 step, namely to reduce taxes on work again properly and to make a higher and above all fairer financial contribution by means of wealth and capital. This is a way that we Social Democrats are very happy to go – and always go – because in Austria we actually have the problem that taxes and taxes on work are too high, and for this, those on capital and assets are in fact too low in international comparison. That's the right thing to do. Since now all the authors claim for themselves: I remember the 2013 election campaign in which the SPÖ entered the first party to reduce the tax rate to 25 percent. I can still remember that in the 2013 election campaign, Chancellor Werner Faymanndas announced as SPÖ's request for this legislative period, and that in the election campaign not all the parties have said that it is true. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rossmann.]] In the meantime, however, I am pleased that all the political groups here in the House are saying: What the SPÖ said before the election applies to the other parties even after the election as a guide – and that we decide today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Counter-financing is on several legs, especially when it comes to tax-related taxes. This is, in principle, not 100 percent always exactly what social democracy has presented itself, but in Essentially, in the core, that's right. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] And if there are already several speakers of the ÖVP, which is not normally done, from the negotiations say what they did not want everything the SPÖ has rejected, then I can also name two small things that the SPÖ wanted and which the ÖVP rejected. This was, for example, that the counter-recalculation with the compensation allowance for pensioners is lost – that is what we have proposed in the negotiations, which is something similar to the Greens are now putting in an amendment proposal. The Valorization of the disability allowances which we have also introduced has also been rejected. But this is so in negotiations that one to 100 percent will never prevail. In many things, we have agreed, and I believe that the whole package is truly supportive, and I am sorry that it does not get a greater majority in this House because the package can really be seen and not only can it make a real good contribution to growth and employment in Austria from 2016 on. I wanted to add one because the cold progression is always being discussed here, and that the last tax reform would be “puffed” – under quotation marks – one more thing: Again to the memory: It was six years ago and had a volume of 2.5 billion; that is, 2.5 billion are supposed to be pumped in six years – supposedly. The new one, which is twice 5 billion in size, would pump in two years. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] This is, of course, an interesting bill! In other words, the greater the volume, the faster it loses its effect, the more and more if you thought about it, you would come up with it: If it's twice that size, it'll have to work twice as long. And the last tax reform has not yet been puffed by the cold progression. On such an account one comes only with a pocket player trick, because each year one calculates the cold progression, cumulated, but on the other hand pretends as if the tax reduction had only happened once. That would be true if we had reduced only once by €2.5 billion and increased by this amount again in the following year: Then through the cold progression, because the total, cumulated with 2.5 billion, the tax reduction would now be gone. But I have to multiply the tax reform per year, which is 2.5 times five or six in the meantime, and we are far away from the fact that the effect of the last tax reform would have been gone by the cold progression. I can tell you: You can discuss the cold progression, but you shouldn't say anything false. Of course, normal development takes at least ten years, especially in the case of such low inflation, until tax reforms lose their effect as it is always presented. With this volume it takes more than ten years to think seriously and not just to leave cheap populist a looser saying from the stack. This is, of course, untrue: The last tax reform is still effective, and it will continue to be effective for at least ten years under the same conditions. In this respect, we support the measure, even if we are not happy with individual parts – everyone has something to do with this package, but it is generally worth supporting. It has the approval of Social Democracy, and we are pleased that we are taking this important step with 1. January 2016 can be set. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e17011	This is what Mr Ing has to say. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e17032	Mr President. High house! First of all, I would like to address Mr Auer. He put himself here and waved with all kinds of newspapers, printed the job inserate, and once one has to imagine that these ads prove, there are plenty of free spaces anyway, but apparently the Austrians are too lazy to apply for them. That was the background of his statement, and there is a real question as to whether the actual outflow of an intellectual swirler is, or whether Mr. Auer really believes that the number of ads in the "standard" or otherwise where there are many open spaces, because he would have to know that most of the posts are awarded via the AMS or via other platforms that run electronically, and not through the "standard" and other print media. [[Abg. Tamandl: This is a cowardice!]] But I think he knows anyway. Only what he doesn't quite understand is that in the free economy things are running a little differently than in the ÖVP. For in the ÖVP, there are no places written out, they are forgiven under the hand, there are no ads. Apparently, Mr Auer believes that this also works in the free economy in such a way that you forgive jobs under your hand, but that is not the case. [[Abg. Tamandl: Nonsense, perhaps come to mind!]] I remember very well: When I looked for a staff member for Parliament and turned an advertisement on career.at, an internet platform, the criticism of the ÖVP has been the strongest: Yeah, how can you?- Oh, my God! How can you only publicly look for a parliamentary employee?! because this seems to be quite unusual inside here. There has also been a search by the media, and it seems that no one in the House is doing this, writing out a parliamentary employee, and that is absolutely wrong from my point of view. You should also write out the parliamentary staff, because then we might get a little more quality into the high house. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] [[Abg. Tamandl: Shame!]] [[Abg. Brosz: Should he be ashamed because he wrote it out?- Oh, my God!]] [[Further calls.]] I know you at the ÖVP are having a hard time getting a call for tender because you give it all under your hand. There you are, of course, specialists, we know that anyway, so you don't need to get upset. The Lord Auer is there the upper-under-hand supplier. In order to return to the tax reform, which is the subject: The tax reform is once again an example of purchasing voters at voter costs. [[Mr Matznetter and Mr Prinz.]] This year we will also make more than €6 billion deficit, i.e. we will take up €6 billion of new debt and provide the population with a relief of €5 billion. I don't want to say that the population wouldn't have deserved it – well, of course it does – but the question is whether we can afford it. That's exactly the point. The point is, we can't afford to do it, because we're taking on debt, that is, €6 billion this year, and these debts must then be repaid with interest and interest interest. If then the SPÖ makes itself and says: This is so good for the purchasing power that the economy benefits from it – you would have the same effect if each citizen simply took a loan from the bank to finance his consumption expenditure. They also have more in the stock exchange, which you have so propagated today, then everyone has more in the stock exchange. Only, the citizen will say: I'm not stupid, I have to repay it with interest rate and interest rate. But if that's what the state does, then it seems the citizen doesn't notice. The citizen does not notice that if he now receives a tax relief and in return we make €6 billion new debt for which we have to pay interest and interest rate that the citizen has to repay it. That seems to be not a lot of things. And if this is where the big word messages come from the government: This is an economic recovery programme!, I can only say: Yes, but on pump! I know that Mr Faymann has a lot of joy with this life on pump – he is also a good friend of the Greek Prime Minister, and he seems to have told him how it works. There you just go, no matter what you get, you spend the money as if the money had been abolished – and you pay it to the others. In that case, it is we who pay it; only with the Greeks will we be asked to cash out at €8 billion if that becomes striking, which is to be expected. That's the problem we've got here: Nobody wants to make a solid economy, because solid economies would mean telling people the truth outside. On the contrary, you do not want to do that, you continue to buy voters at voter costs. This works, it has also worked in the past, and it works as long as people out there don't understand it.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e17143	For the designation of a representative as ‘intellectual squatter’, I give Mr Lugar a call for an order. Mrs Schittenhelm has now come to speak. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e17180	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! High house! Ladies and gentlemen in front of the TV screens! Mr Lugar, I really am admiring that you stand here and say, with a prepotence of untruths, what Mr Auer has not said. [[Abg. Lugar: I wrote down what he said, I wrote it down!]] It's incredible! You are hurting the reputation of this house, I would like to say that very clearly once! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] You have also discriminated against our parliamentary staff in your speech today, you have agreed to their quality, and I must tell you: I commend our employees, they are excellent young women and boys who are serving here, and not the way you have qualified them now. You can't do anything else than put something in the hands of others. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we know of course that Austria – and we have heard this often enough today – has to be fundamentally reformed. Now we have the tax reform, and of course we also need to take up structural reforms. We know that. But now it is said to put the economy in motion, just as the Federal Republic of Germany did. Only in this way will it be possible for us to create jobs and reduce the high level of unemployment. This tax reform has not been designed by anyone of jux and toleration. No, this tax reform is based on internal and external recommendations, such as OECD, the economic researcher, the final report of the Tax Reform Commission, on the recommendations of the Deregulation Commission and, of course, on those of the really qualified women and men in the Ministry of Finance, above all our Minister of Finance Hans Jörg Schelling, who has brought this tax reform to the rail next to the crises – Greece at European level and next to the Hypo Carinthia – in the best positive form. Our goal, ladies and gentlemen, is clear. We need this great collective reform for all citizens. We need a corresponding relief, because Austria is currently 43 per cent with the tax rate, and that is really a high tax country. We need the investment power, the courage of entrepreneurs and at the same time the purchasing power of families. This tax reform with a planned discharge – it has often been said today – of over €5 billion brings significant tax relief in the final effect for 6.3 million citizens. The additional tax rates benefit both low earners and performance providers. This too is for the first time unique. So far, we have had three tax levels – you know it – 36.5 percent, 43.2 percent and 50 percent. In the future, there will be another six stages, which means better balance, equal participation of all those working here. With the reduction of income tax revenue from 36,5 percent to 25 percent, a noticeable relief is especially for part-time workers and single-time educators to feel single earners, they are supported with this. Of course, women benefit from this. What Mr Rossmann said is simply not true. He meant that those who are in the low-paid sector only have relief of up to 4 percent. [[Abg. Rossmann: 1,4 I said!]] We have taken this up quite clearly, and we have 43 percent relief here for lower incomes. Mr Rossmann, don't tell anything wrong if it's not true! These 43 percent can be counted down to 6 percent for server servants. But I was particularly concerned that in the area of this tax reform we would relieve the families – this has been mentioned many times today. We have 1 125 000 families with children in Austria, and these benefit because the tax reform will bring 2 630 € to relief a year for a family with children. Of course, I also expect tax relief here. We have to see what is going on here in the Republic as a whole. I think we are not yet aware of it in the form. We have, of course, also – and this has been addressed – increased the child allowance from € 220 to € 440. Now you could say, too little. It will always be too little. I still think it's great. Finally, it is €100 million more for the families in Austria. I hope that the child allowance will be collected not only by 80 percent of those entitled, but also by 100 percent in the future. Here it is with the unsolicited family aid, which it has been since 1. May of this year, unbureaucratism becomes, that is, no more applications, no more forms, no more bureaucracy. And the same applies to automated employee charges. This will also come about, which is also an improvement for workers. In short – it was said a lot –: We are doing everything we can with this tax reform, so that a discharge is given to all citizens. Of course, everyone will never be satisfied. I can only say that this tax reform brings a corresponding, tangible relief for taxpayers, and we should not speak badly of it, but we should help to really implement it.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e17243	I call Mr Klubobmann. Dr. Strolz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e17265	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear citizens in front of the screens, on the gallery, on the road wherever you watch! We are negotiating the tax reform here. I have already given my views twice today, and I would now like to make my third speech on how we would like to do so. How do NEOS undertake a tax reform if we get the responsibility of citizens? In the first place, what is the objective of tax reform for us? – We are a citizen movement that started in 2013 with the approach and with the deep conviction that people in Austria should take their own lives into their own hands. That's important to us. The greatest expert in one's own life is man himself. We want to raise people and not the state – that is our conviction – with our core values of self-responsibility, love of freedom, sustainability. And because we think so much of man, of course we also want to leave him many of the decisions that the state is taking away from him today. We're thinking big about people, and that's why we want to leave people more money in the wallet. We see in recent years that we have falling real wages, that is, if I see young people here on the gallery today, you can assume that ten years ago about a 30-year-old person had on average 10 percent more money available than today. We wish that people, when they get into adult life, for example, if they earn too two, will of course be able to afford a home for themselves. This is no longer guaranteed. We wish that an employee, a worker, will naturally find the way out to live a good life. But that also means that we have to get the tax and tax pressure down. We are about 10 percent above Germany in tax and tax pressure. Because we want to raise people because we say he should have more money at his disposal, we have to go into expenditure. It's central. We looked at this in comparison with Germany, with Switzerland, and Mr Finanzminister himself said – he just didn't do it – that: Austria has no income problem, Austria has an expenditure problem. The revenue in Austria is bubbling like an Arab oil source, each year we have record revenue, every year people are more torn out of what they produce hard. The tax reform will bring about a mid-term deal, beginning in 2016 with a slight discharge, and already in 2019 we will have a higher tax and tax pressure than today. That is why this tax reform is not enough, of course, because it does not go into the expenditure side determinedly with structural reforms. Austria, if you charge it up per capita, is 22 billion € more from than Germany. Austria alone spends 10 billion more than Switzerland. We spend 55 billion, calculated per capita, more than Switzerland. footnote: Switzerland, of course, has a different social system. When you adjusted that there is a lot private there, we spend 25 billion more per capita compared to Switzerland. If this were to happen to people, then I would say that's wonderful, then you can talk about it, but the problem is, it's suffocating anywhere in administration, bloated devices et cetera. We want to cut out 19.1 billion over a reform phase of eight years, for example 6.8 billion in pensions. This does not mean that we want to cut small pensions, but rather small pensions should remain natural, but what is not going on are luxury pensions. There is no need for pensions over €30 000, which still exists, 15 times a year, nor more than €10 000. [[Abg. Kirchgatterer: All equal 19 million! You have to be able to count on that!]] With this we can leave, immediately, special pension rights as in Vienna until 2042 – ratzfatz away with it! Merging all pension systems into a single pension system: This is the only fair thing about the citizens. We would go into the funding – 4 billion – in federalism and administration – 3.3 billion – into the health administration – 4.5 billion € – and into the bureaucracy – 500 million €. What do we do with it? – We pay €8.4 billion. It's very important that we relieve income. Of course, this is the only good point in this tax reform, where we say: That's right. In the same way, we have to go into the extra wage costs, and this is not what this government is doing. That is why this tax reform will fuel unemployment, and therefore we are criticising it so harshly because we are expected to produce 100 000 additional unemployed in the next two years due to this missing tax reform, and we are not creating a turnaround here either. We would also invest! Any tax reform must, please, go into an investment budget. You can't do that! In our tax reform model, we create 3.5 billion for research, education and innovation. This is infinitely important: not a pure savings course, but one with an investative character. We are going into debt service with 3.3 billion, because the day will come when interest will rise. Then it becomes gloomy for Austria, because the interest service – now € 7 billion, almost as much as the budget for 1.1 million students – will massively overturn the educational budget. The day will come – it is not so far away – where we will pay well over €10 billion for the pure interest service. That is why, in addition to debt services, we are of course also going into a closed zero deficit, which means that we will not make a deficit in the future. Germany and Switzerland have managed. Germany has just presented the best unemployment figures since 1991. Austria is, among other things, on the Loserstraße because of this tax reform and unfortunately there on the overrun track. There is only one other government constellation, which is why three weeks ago we called for a new election. We stick to this demand. We cannot continue until 2018 as if nothing were, otherwise we will continue to be massively in the downturn in prosperity over the next three years. No one can want that in this country!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e17309	Next, Mrs Mag. Greener speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e17331	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Let me once again highlight the main points of this tax reform. This reform will ensure that 6.5 million Austrians with a total cost of €5.2 billion will be relieved. So it has been possible to make a decisive contribution to the factor of labour, the income from work. We heard: The input tax rate was reduced from 36,5 to 25 percent. What does that mean? That means it remains more money that you can invest with and with which you can buy something. This positive climate for more investment, a stronger purchasing power and, as a result, also for a lively economy, is naturally weakened if some believe they have to serve a certain clientele – this raises doubts and creates uncertainty. It is also positive to stress that the SPÖ has enforced that the so-called negative tax in the form of a credit is tripled and thus increased to up to €400. Who benefits from it? In particular, part-time workers, including women, apprentices and pensioners, benefit from this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] How could the volume of a tax reform be significantly increased? The labour factor has been relieved, but wealth, capital and capital income are still far too little taken into account. Should we not discuss the socially relevant issue of increased taxation of real assets? What will be discussed instead? – The minimum guarantee! There are discussions about elderly people who cannot get rounds with their minimum pension and cannot live in dignity without minimum security. Do you really want to discuss the problems of single mothers who have lost their jobs, or people who have lost their jobs indebtedly because of crisis events? Let me take a brief look at the following statistics: The assets of the 31 billionaires in Austria alone amount to 140 billion euros. This is an increase of 17 percent compared to the previous year. Ladies and gentlemen, the Austrian Social Democracy will continue the debate on fair taxation of assets, with conviction and determination! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e17383	Next come Mr MMMag. Dr. Kassinger speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e17406	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! If you listen to the comments of the government parties on the tax reform, what great reliefs are being made, then I must say that I see the discharge only on one side, and that is what we have called for for for years: tax relief. But I do not see any discharge at all. I see a left pocket, right pocket game. I see enormous burden on the economy by looking at the impact-oriented impact assessment, which is illustrated in the government's proposal and which has also been sent to the budget service. If you make the effort to look at this table more closely, then you will see that the discharge is good, but if you look at the counter-funding, then it turns out that this is a single attack on and a burden on the Austrian economy, because almost all points mean an additional burden – tax increases and additional taxes of about €3.5 billion. Mr Lopatka has spoken here of a milestone. Mr Kogler, on the other hand, said that this milestone may develop into a pebble. I would like to continue the wordplay and say that I am definitely sure that this tax reform is a cornerstone for Austrian entrepreneurs. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A real discharge – that is what we have been demanding for years – requires that we finally sit down and see where there is significant potential for savings on the expenditure side. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] These savings can, of course, be financed by a corresponding tax reform, which, in addition to tax relief – if it is to constitute a real total tax relief – must include, of course, a relief of companies, for example in the area of corporate tax or capital income tax, and in particular a relief in the area of additional wage costs. Mr Strolz has already mentioned this. [[Further call to the SPÖ.]] We can now discuss whether this should be €5 billion, €10 billion or whatever. In any case, € 5 billion is far too little to give noticeable effects, especially on the labour market. 10 billion euros would be possible, and these 10 billion euros would be saved. We have funding of 18 billion €. Only if we lower this to the EU average – we spend the double of the EU average – would this already be €9 billion of counter-financing potential by removing senseless expenditure; I deliberately avoid the term “saving”. We have to trust this. The current government in this form simply does not manage this – because its members are paralysing each other – to reduce social security contributions and additional wage costs. We have to trust ourselves to really look at the whole promotion jungle. There is something like Zero-Base budgeting in the business industry, that is, we are turning it around once again, because I have the impression that this whole funding area is already moving towards inheritance rent, to the extent that the amounts that have been funded last year are simply rewritten, if not anything special happens. Let's turn it around, let's put it on zero! The promoters will then have to argue why they also want this or that support in the future. This is done as part of an ABC analysis. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] A funding is necessary and useful. Then there are B-fundings that we cannot afford in the mom-tanning situation and that we have to be so honest that we can temporarily suspend it at all times. Then there are C promotions – not such a small area – which are promotions that are pointless and therefore irreplaceable to be removed. [[Call to the SPÖ: Are there any proposals? For example?]] Of course, the government is not doing this work. It is easy to explain why not. What is promotion? What is support for those who grant the support? It's power: You have to go and be kind, then you may get a promotion. [[Abg. Christ: That's how it was with you, yes!]] Of course, giving up this power is not something that the government parties are prepared to do. We are accused – even in the press by Mr Schelling, Minister of Finance, – of having no solutions. I am not commenting on this now. I am just telling you a few measures that we could take immediately to resolve the problems. Of course, in the face of 500 000 unemployed people, we have to think about temporarily limiting the labour market. We need to implement an immediate simplification and speed-up of the administrative authorisation procedures, because there is an end to the economy. We have to make a real cut in the luxury and super-pensions, not such a half-hearted matter as it was decided here in the National Council. We need – and this is not even from us now, but from the Chamber of Economic Trustees – to put the 22 social insurance companies together on one to a maximum of three. We have to think about reducing the additional wage costs – let us start with the business chamber contributions, the DB1 and DB2 and the workers' chamber contributions! Mr Leitel could do this immediately by simply halving DB1. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] No one wants the contributions to be immediately radically abolished, but a halving of the DB1 would already bring a lot. We've heard it today, the DB1 is an investment damper. Investments will be penalised with DB1, so to speak. And, colleague Schellhorn, when you hire people, you'll be punished with the DB2. That can't be the right signal to get an economy moving. We also need to think – and we are going to make an appropriate request today – about the sensibleness of the economic sanctions against Russia or about the enormous damage that this causes the Austrian economy. In this regard, there are studies which suggest that 10,000 to 40 000 jobs are at risk. We can now go over it and say that everything is not so bad, we accept it, or you can put yourself on this issue accordingly. How must the courage to set a 40 percent tax rate as a strategic medium-term objective and to set a constitutional objective. We must have this courage! However, I do not see the appropriate courage on the part of the government parties on any of these points. We must have the courage to simplify dramatically the entire tax law, which is so complicated that even tax advisors no longer recognize themselves – there are thousands of proposals from the Chamber of Economic Trustees on this issue too. We need to have the courage to think about whether our redistribution system is against performance in so far as the difference between non-performance payments or subsidies and low income is simply too low. And then you'll be surprised when people say they're not going to work because of 100 € more. The second side of the medal is, of course, that if these people don't go to work, they also don't get into the whole social systems, but they get them. If You look at heading 2 in the budget – I'll be scared and scared anyway when I look at the next few years – that's the area that's just exploded. We must also have the courage to say that we are looking at the country of origin principle in terms of minimum security and family support. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We must have the courage to evaluate the performance of the labour market service sharply once. You have to go there and ask: What is the input – that costs a fortune – and what really is the beneficial output of all these institutions? We must also have the courage to look at all unwarranted privileges and to remove them as much as possible. Where do these privileges take place? Exactly in these areas of red and black: The Chamber of Labour, the Chamber of Commerce, the social security companies, the countries, the entire outsourced companies of the countries and the Republic, where there is usually a black and a red managing director, in the National Bank et cetera. We must have this courage to look at it accordingly. And we need a great deal of courage in reducing or renegotiating payments or commitments that we have entered into with the European Union and with various European rescue mechanisms in order to stand up and say that we are trying to renegotiate this. One does not need to be a great prophet, and I now conclude with a brief reference to Greece: Of these €8.9 billion, about which it is about, a decent merchant would say goodbye in so far as he writes it down in his balance sheets at least 80 percent. If we do this in our budget, it looks very dark with a balanced budget anyway. This does not matter, however, because it has no impact on the structural budget – and it has already been said that the structural budget is, so to speak, a bad number of indicators. This is just as if an entrepreneur says he has lost €300 000 now, but in fact €200 000 has been taken as a one-time measure for Greece, and €100 000 is due to the economy, so in fact he has achieved a zero result structurally. It is clear how absurd this code is and how inappropriate it is to determine, in particular, whether we have budgetary discipline or not. Of course, we do not have one because we continue to make budgetary deficits.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e17495	The next point is Mr Obernoster. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e17517	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and at home in front of the TV screens! Agenda item 3 of the Tax Reform Act: What does that mean for the really smallest farms, the family farms? You should say that quite clearly. We know that the income tax rate has also been reduced. This makes about €500 million for entrepreneurs and about 500 million for individual businesses. 1 600 € from. About 75 percent of the companies benefit from this. The minimum social security contribution base was reduced by around 40 percent, which also accounts for approximately €300 a year – that is €1 900. In the case of the transfer of the holding in the family, in the case of property tax, the amount of the allowance was increased from € 750 000 to € 900 000. That is to say, these really many small family businesses and micro-enterprises have been taken into account in this tax reform, and they have also been relieved. This has, as has been said, been a very important and good sign. What was prevented, you can say. When you say over and over again that this basic acquisition tax, which hits one or the other, is a donated gift tax: There is no gift tax, no inheritance tax and no substance tax. For this, the ÖVP has stood, and that has finally come true. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The further steps to discharge do not always have to be in the financial field. The most important thing in the near future must be that we finally address the issue of bureaucracy, search through the conditions and thus get the controls back into control so that companies, as I said, can bring their strength and energy mainly into work, instead of spending them on bureaucracy. This is worth at least as much as there or there a sugar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e17562	Next, Mr Magistrate. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e17583	Mr President. Federal Minister! First of all, I announce that we will also make an amendment concerning the change in the data collection direction of donations. First of all, however, to the fundamental debate – we can take this up from the morning. Again, because that was the dispute: This €5 billion now as the economic recovery measure simply paralyzes. This is not wrong in small parts, but rarely did something like that which is otherwise often presented to the European Union: too little and too late, for what it is. The effects are too low. 5 billion € are a patch of money for you, Mr. Minister, or for others who have already been here today. This is not in principle wrong, although it is all relative over the years of inflation and cold progression. But with this remaining volume you can move much more if you organize it differently. Mr Rossmann and Mr Schatz have indeed referred the figures from the WIFO to the current hour. According to WIFO, we are linked to the first modest growth effects of a maximum of 8,000 additional jobs. When I look at this: At a volume of €5 billion, you move €700 million or so for a workplace – 7 million of course. Who's counting on you? It's all sleeping! In reality, I think it's €700 000, otherwise it won't go out. For this money you can send five people to walk. Something doesn't match if you want to hang that up. If this were otherwise organized, even with regard to the distribution effects, more could be done here. Mr. Bruno Rossmann has been in this field, yes. long dedicated and presented its own, really fixed and finished, top calculated model. You'd see, alternatively, how it could be. At this time and at this energetic wave that goes through space, of course, I say this especially for the Minutes. But that's also essential so that it doesn't completely forget the afterworld, because these shawl songs – with all recognition that something is finally happening – don't let you hide. And as far as the time is concerned, I have to remind you again: In essence, at least as far as income tax and wage tax are concerned, it is a collective reform. Good thing we did, but we could have done that much earlier. In fact, the effects of employment would have grown out, and if we had made more effort in the past – there was already a red and black government before, and we had four or five years of expert commission on tax reform with the same agenda – then the effect would be that this reform or this tariff reduction would have been valid since the beginning of this year or last year – that would have been easily possible – earlier and in a phase where we needed it more importantly. One can assume that the economic data is getting better again, then with this discharge we are going into another branch, but the time when we really needed it would certainly have been the last two years. That would have been possible, useful and necessary. You still have to tell you this again. For four or five years, an expert commissionitis has been imposed on us, in order to ensure that at the end of each one's position in the election campaign, only so that one can claim: Yeah, we're working on the subject, eh! Now, de facto, the same government is sitting there – only a few people have been exchanged – and so we do not want to leave it; that is the task of the opposition to point it out. What the alternatives are always the same. A structural reform is something to rework. The only thing that is good now is that, on the other hand, tax fraud is being combated once. That is something like that in a way. But, of course, we could turn on much bigger wheels if we were to solve the tax structural problems, we must say, solve them. If you compare what we have with the OECD section, as the structures look out there, you will see all the gaps and also all the scope. Then we would finally come down with the so-called additional wage costs – we prefer the concept of total wage levies. That would also be a command of the hour. And then we would have continued on the business side and on the employee side. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But now to the proposed amendment. This refers to the implementation of the eligibility of donations, the debate is public and some are well known. I repeat the arguments only in a very short time. The NGOs, first of all Caritas and Red Cross, such as Lord Creator, Mr. Landau argues that it is actually a bureaucratic extra burden for them. Of course, I know the argument of the government that says: They've known that for a long time. Be quiet! But these are not no names, they are not unimportant people in the Republic, and therefore they should not be unheard of here. Also for the protocol: Creators and Landau do not want to do – almost unisono – the work for data collection, processing, storage and reporting to the Ministry of Finance. Landau says that help becomes even more difficult in the way it is. - Be quiet. We have designed the amendment I am submitting in the same way. That he essentially takes out the provisions that are inside this novelle. So that means: Status quo. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make the amendment tabled by Mr Kogler, friends and friends, which refers precisely to the government's proposal here, TOP 3. I can explain it in the core lines in such a way that the provisions of § 18 para. 8 Income tax law is deleted in the relevant reference to produce the old status quo again. This is the meaning of the application. To this end, he is also working quite simply in technical terms, and I hope, Mr President, that he is sufficiently explained.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e17668	The amendment is sufficiently supported, explained in the cornerstones and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e17785	Next speaker: Mrs Holzinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e17806	Mr President. Dear visitors to the gallery! Estimated citizens who are on TV or the Internet! Dear Colleagues! Today's report of the Financial Committee presents the Government's draft tax reform law 2015/2016 on decision-making. At a time when Austria – as most recently stated in the study of the European Central Bank on the assets of private households – is certified by all parties as such, the richest 10 percent of the population – as Mr Rossmann has already mentioned – have around two thirds of the total assets. Or otherwise represented: The lower 93 percent of the population, i.e. 7.8 million people, have only as much as the richest top one percent. That is, 7.8 million have only as much as 85,000 people. In such a time when people are experiencing job losses, precarious employment, rising prices, where there are high growth rates on the other hand, as far as wealth is concerned – colleague Greiner has said: up to 17 percent of pure wealth gain – and more and more people are being included annually into millionaires or in the millionsaires club, I think it is irresponsible, Mr Obernosterer, to face the population and say that one is against just property taxes, one is against an introduction of inheritance and gift taxes, namely as a corrective to the current current redistribution from bottom to top and as a corrective to the ever-increasing crack between the poor and the empire. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neubauer]] [[Abg. Obernoster: This is your view!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neubauer]] These asset taxes were the reason why I went into politics in 2010, they were the reason why I was a social democrat and said: I would like to fight for a fairer distribution in Austria. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Obernosterer.]] For me, too, these asset taxes have always been the reason I mentioned as a condition for consenting to this tax reform. But I would like to explain why, despite all this reduction in wages, I am going to give this package my consent today. [[Further calls at FPÖ and ÖVP.]] I really want to justify it, because after the publication of these key points of the proposed reform, I spoke with extremely many people in my district and my first feeling of the belly was negative, because there is no comprehensive reform in the distribution of assets, which is so very wrong in Austria. People in my district, no matter if they were students with part-time jobs, mothers, fathers, whatever people affected, people who are under 25 percent tax, 25 percent of GDP, people who currently spend around 50 percent of gross salaries on social security and wage tax, just the people need this tax relief, they need this financial relief. It has long been unclear whether or not this tax reform will even come. Now she's here. An example maybe very briefly: It has always been said – Mr Fuchs said that – that there is no relief for families. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] - That's not right! For example, if a parent earns around 2,500 gross a month, the other parent earns 1,500 € gross a month, this means a relief of 1 440 € per year for this family. These are converted – perhaps it will then become more plausible – 14 full shopping carts or 16 tank fillings for a middle class car. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kitzmüller.]] If that's not a discharge, I don't know what you understand. [[Call the FPÖ: This is nonsense what you say!]] That is why I will support this wage tax reduction. But I will always and again argue that we will bring together a fairer distribution in the Austrian tax system in order to be able to combat this extreme flaw. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e17896	Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Rupprechter has submitted an opinion on the matter. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e17918	Mr President. High house! The Federal Minister for Finance has already given a very detailed opinion on item 1 – on this tax reform project, the largest discharge programme in the Second Republic – which is why I will only comment on it in a very short time. I have already said that it is a joint project of this Federal Government and it is the largest tax relief in the Second Republic, a total of 5.2 billion relief for Austrian taxpayers, an average relief of €1 000 a year. Companies are relieved, families benefit by doubling the amount of the child allowance. It is important to stress: Due to the careful counter-financing measures, it has succeeded – and this was an important concern for us – to finance this tax reform without inheritance taxes, without asset taxes, without paying taxes. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In fact, we do not need an anti-business burden in this Republic, because performance and property must pay off. We need to strengthen entrepreneurship and we need to strengthen and protect property. That's why it was so important to us. The most important measure is certainly the reduction of the tax rate. I have seen here in all the speeches that there is great agreement on the correctness of this measure. Equally important are the increase in the research premium, the higher transfer amounts for workers, the adjustments to the maximum tax rate, the applicationless family aid, the automatic employment deposit and the increase in tax-free employee capital. I think the positive effects of this tax reform, this greatest discharge, are undisputed. By increasing net real wages and increasing household income, private consumption will increase accordingly and lead to growth shifts. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Moser.]] Exports will also increase by 5 per cent per year, and new jobs and jobs will be created. This tax reform is the largest, the most powerful employment and economic programme in the Second Republic, and I can only appeal to you all: Carriers With this tax reform, support it in the sense of the Austrian taxpayers! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e17975	The next item is the speech by Mr Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e17996	Mr President. Mr. Minister! If you're talking about the biggest tax reform, I have to say: It's a pitiful picture of what we're delivering here. [[Abg. Krainer: The NEOS!]] No member of the SPÖ Group is on the bank. [[Abg. New builder: state of SPÖ!]] The hall is very shaky, none – neither by the ÖVP nor by the SPÖ – is sitting here when one speaks of the biggest tax reform here. [[Call to the ÖVP: There is no one there for you either!]] It would be in the sense of the matter if you were to correct the corresponding amount of worth of this story. If the Federal Chancellor has spoken of the hard facts this morning, of calculations he cites as hard facts, I must say: If I do this as an entrepreneur, go to a bank, present such calculations and call them hard facts, then I could resign and go home. These are estimates of the WIFO on which it is based, and three-quarters come from the increase in taxes. Then again I heard the words of Mr Schelling: We have a problem with expenditure and not a problem with revenue. Mr Lopatka speaks of a ‘backbag’. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schimanek.]] Yes, this backpack has been imposed on entrepreneurs, and it is entirely right that the entrepreneurs in particular have to go around the new tax increase with this backpack. And here I ask you, dear Gabriel Obernosterer, dear colleague Haubner: Where have the signs been on which the entrepreneurs are concerned? I have only seen other signs, but none of them, which is a discharge from entrepreneurs, create jobs. There was nothing to do with that! I appeal to what the national leaders – the so-called West Axis – say: With us, with our Members, there will not be this tax reform! – Wallner said that, that's what Platter and Haslauer said. I'm going to see whether you're gonna sit or not, whether they're exercising power over you or not. So it's very important that we make this clear. Your “fitness program”, of which you speak, is the backpack program for the entrepreneurs you are burdening here. It would be necessary to relinquish entrepreneurship by reducing additional labour costs, by making a long-term overdue reform of the trade system. Gabriel Obernosterer, you also talked about bureaucrats. Yes, for more than 10 300 days you have had the chance to implement a form of bureaucrats – you haven't done it; now you're talking about it again. I don't want to talk about the careful reforms at all. Farmers have been treated very carefully, and no basic tax reform has been launched here either. But the burden on the entrepreneurs, that was very well kept quiet, and I really do that to you. It hurts me in the heart of how you betray tourism and your entrepreneurship, that hurts me. [[Abg. Obernoster: Well, well, well!]] I hope your assurances are appealed to here. I can tell you a quote. On the basis of a request from the Austrian Hotelier Association together with GFB, a further request was made for the depreciation period, as is the case. Head of Section Mayr has the question of whether improvements are envisaged here, namely the improvements that the heads of state, the West Axis, are constantly talking about, for example, that wellness facilities or various technical installations such as air conditioning can be seen as an independent part, or whether there should be AfA tables, with the clear statement that no changes are planned here. [[Abg. Obernoster: That's what I know so far!]] It was last week! That was last week, and your heads of state promise! It's just an insanity what you're doing! It would be time to relieve the labour factor, finally to tackle the reform of the trade order and a form of red tape. [[Abg. Obernosterer: What you say about the acquisition tax is also not correct!]] This creates jobs and nothing else! And there is no way to speak of hard facts as the Federal Chancellor does. Your “fitness program” is the backpack for the entrepreneurs, on which you are now resting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e18111	The next item is the speech by Mr Ing. Schools. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e18133	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen in the House! Dear taxpayers! Today we are talking about decisions on a tax reform that has been discussed for a long time, which has called for our joint political debate and, of course, has put to a serious test the sustainability of our coalition. That's not surprising. There are those who say taxes are because the state has money that it can spend. And then there are the others who say: Man works because he wants to earn something, he works for himself, and of course one also has to supply taxes so that the community can live! So I honestly say I don't like to pay taxes. Whoever of you likes to pay taxes, please tell me now. [[Abg. Yılmaz: I am very happy to pay!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] – Thank you, I am very happy, wonderful. I think most Austrians pay their taxes when they know that the money is spent well, is properly charged and is used where it is necessary. However, this tax reform has also shown that we can only demand taxes from citizens if the taxes fulfil their functions. A function that has been unpleasantly taxed: They're power-retardant! With our tax progress, we are taking people away from their wages more and more as inflation increases wages and then comes to a higher progression, i.e. deduction level. - That's not all right. Man is supposed to want to do something. Man should want to earn something, and therefore it is necessary to dampen this progression, to take it away. We agreed quickly. Then the question was: How can you do that? This will work well, because then people will have more money in their pocket, performance will be promoted, and that will revive the economy. – This is a good effect of the tax reform: People want to do something again! Yes, but where does the money come from? – The money therefore comes to look more closely, to look where perhaps not so tax-honored. This is not all right either, for the one who is tax-related is in competition with the one who does not make it tax-recognition. And this too will help the economy if you know at once how a calculation actually comes about. It is also an invigorating effect when people are taxing. To sum up, this means that we have brought well the basic idea of the EIA in this tax reform. Since it has also succeeded in preventing property tax, inheritance tax, gift tax, I must say that is a tax reform, which I do not like in every point, but goes in the right direction in the basic principles. If Mrs Holtinger complains that wealth is not taxed or is not taxed so much that it is fairly redistributed, I ask: Where does wealth come from? – Either it was created or someone took it away. The state has once had a lot of wealth, and we have seen that first the privatisation has made good and healthy businesses out of it. The state is therefore not suitable. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rossmann.]] Well, how about the private? – Ask Mr Androsch how this is with old fortune! He took over the salinities and renovated them; they function again. He has created new assets with AT&S, a company that has been in force throughout Austria, worldwide and is doing something. Do you think that the company will be more valuable or more secure if you take it away and the state will continue it? Let's leave the wealth to those who can, and let's see that we're getting the taxes where they don't harm the economy! [[call to the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The tax reform is all right. We'll take her as she is.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e18201	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Stefan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e18222	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We have heard a great deal today from the government parties about the principles of tax reform: The citizens should be relieved, administration narrowed and laws made easier. I will now give you a concrete example to show you how this tax reform actually works, on the basis of basic taxation. I will show you that these three points are going wrong. I am not going to the west of Austria now, where there has been a dramatic increase in traffic values, as this tax reform is now making families worse, especially when it comes to transfers between close relatives. So much for the relief of the families. In this law, families – transfers between close relatives – are explicitly made worse, as traffic value is now rather than triple unit value basis. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now I'm gonna get an example: Vienna-Simmering, a family house, a unit value of 12 000 €. This means that the three-fold unit value would now be the basis of assessment, of which 2 percent tax is calculated, i.e. 720 € tax. In the future, the transport value is the basis of assessment, in this case about €400 000, i.e. there is now a standard in the tax rate, and then we have a tax of €1 750. Yes, you can now say: My God, 1 000 € are not the world! But at least two and a half times the tax is now prescribed; for a not dramatic example. This is once the approach. That is, so much to “do not tax. ” Now, however, we are coming to what is now required. I have another example in which the traffic value for the calculation has already been used: As a result, the taxpayer made a statement on the state of his house, and on the basis of the real estate price mirror, which is always in conversation, a tax declaration was made to the financial office. Three months later, a call from the Financial Office will come to the opinion. I only read some of what the financial office now expects from the taxpayer: Since the building value is also to be taken into account – first the basic value is discussed – a copy of the house fire insurance policy and of meaningful photographs, exterior view and all interiors, in particular to support the simple residential value, as well as a list of all essential renovation and conservation measures carried out at all times. If the building is ready for demolition, an estimate of the cost of demolition of the house in question will be requested and a notice of the entire cubic meter of demolition material will be made with a detailed description of the quantity calculation and planning copy. And so on. This is now to be transmitted to the Financial Office by the taxpayer, and this determines the transport value. Now please explain to me: What is this simplification? [[Call the FPÖ: Unbelievable!]] Who's been thinking about this in the Ministry of Finance? What is the Minister of Finance, saying that we are making an administrative simplification in this Republic? The financial officer now has to evaluate what I'm going to present to him or what the taxpayer is presenting to him? How does he do that at all? Does he have anything else to do but look at such things? – Do you want to sell us this as a discharge, administrative simplification or anything else? That's a disaster! Such laws present to us and try to sell us for nice! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It was now only the implementation, now to simpler laws: What do we have in this basic taxation? - We have a division. There are now free, partial and payable transfers. Free of charge is considered to be free of charge, as long as the return you receive is less than 30 percent of the traffic value you, as we have just seen, “all simple”. Of course, the counterperformance is always “very simple”, but please. Up to 30 percent return free of charge, between 30 and 70 percent counter-service partially chargeable, over 70 percent counter-service to the transport value fee. It's simple, isn't it? I think everyone's been thinking: It's really great what we've got a thought-out law. Now, of course, different calculations are being made: So if only free of charge, i.e. only up to 30 percent in return, then we have the billing of the tax. In the case of partial charge, we have to calculate 3.5 percent from the first euro, but from the given part of the seasoning. With remuneration 3.5 percent. Everyone come? – “Very simple”. This is our law that we decide today or that you will decide today! The return, as has been said, is taxed by 3.5 percent from the first euro. For example, if you are now given a property by your parents and you grant the parents a right to have a fruit or an apartment there – which is quite common – then you would apologize! That doesn't apply between parents and children, but if it's the aunt who gives you this – I just want to explain the logic – the aunt gives you this property and reserves a right of residence, then now pay 3.5 percent tax for the return and for what you get, initially only 0.5 percent tax. Which logic says I pay more taxes if I get less? – So if I have to give the aunt a return, I'll pay more tax than if I get it completely gifted. [[Abg. Neubauer: “Super” made!]] I think it is always the principle that the wealth should not be cumulative and so on. Completely illogical, quite the opposite! – But you decide today, with confidence. Please think about what you're doing here! I just briefly summarized it. Only by a small example have I shown you: simpler laws – no!; Simple administration – no!Use custom fonts; Liberation of the citizen – no! That is why it is simple and easy to reject!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e18295	The next speaker is Mr Wimmer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e18316	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Cute: Don't read! An opinion on this.]] Col. Schultes, not all privatizations were so great. The salinity may therefore be a bad example, because it was also very potent and good together before privatisation. But there have been other reasons why it was necessary to privatize, monopoly and so on – we know anyway. Maybe that's about this story. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen, what has happened to me a little bit, and this hurts me, is that Mr Kogler, who is very critical, is always looking for a fairy tale in the soup and sometimes finds one. I believe that in the case of such an epochal step which is ahead of us today, at such a volume that is being set free for workers today, we should be pleased. [[Abg. Kitzmüller: (shaking the head) "epochal"?- Oh, my God!]] Let's just enjoy that this is going to take place today! Such days we will not experience again so quickly, ladies and gentlemen very much! I would like to take this opportunity to thank the very many colleagues. Nearly 900 000 people have signed and driven forward this project. I can remember that last year exactly around this time there have been discussions on this subject, which have been said: I can't! We don't have any money! It doesn't work! It's the wrong time! – The question is: When would it really be the right time? [[Abg. Neubauer: Your comrades don't even sit there to justify themselves!]] There have, of course, been statements of the opposition parties who were very critical. I looked at a few of them. For example, Mr Strache said: Well, this tax reform is a "mickey mouse reform". [[Abg. Neubauer: Right!]] ==References== ==References== “A cheap package.” Well, ladies and gentlemen, at €1500 gross if 500 less tax is to be paid, that’s what. This is money that people need. [[Abg. New builder: 2 500 more!]] Or if 2 600 € are earned and 1 000 € remain so to speak, then this is a holiday. And that's good! Mr Loacker said that today, in the current hour of this issue, the tax reform "fires" unemployment. – You have to be honest, and I would also like to acknowledge that renowned institutions, such as Wifo, IHS and National Bank, say: Private consumption will rise, investment will increase and jobs will be added! – I would ask fairness to recognise that too. [[Call to the FPÖ: This is a controversial speech!]] The Stronach team has also heard criticism. Mrs Dietrich once said: Storm in the water glass, reförmchen. – I know it’s a little different with your money, but 5 billion € are also a lot of money for Frank Stronach, my very valued colleague. If for the first time we can free up a negative tax for pensioners and get up to 110 € actually recovered, then that is something you should not overestimate or underestimate. One colleague, who once sat with the Stronach team and is sitting on the other bank today, said: The democratic transformation of the Republic into a late Marxist workers' and farmers' state is progressing. – There is the proverb, Mr. Col., the change from Saul to Paul. We are looking at exactly how you vote today, but you can also be failed. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that we can decide in this form today. It is a really good day for employees and pensioners in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e18421	Mrs Lichtenecker's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e18442	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The fact is that the Austrian tax system is completely obsolete. There are three factors that are responsible for this: First: We have too high pay side-by-side costs. Secondly, We have too low wealth taxes. And thirdly, We have too low environmental taxes. How can this be proved? – Let’s go to the fund-related charges: If you look at the list of OECD countries, you see, there we are rowed all the way back, and that of 34 countries. What does it mean to be in the back? – Behind Austria are only more Mexico, Estonia and Slovakia. - That's about this ranking. The highest capital taxes are in Great Britain, France, Canada, Belgium, Israel and the United States. Today, in fact, it is not a big throw that is being debated here, but it has been missed a chance in this form. Mrs Holzinger, you are cordially invited to go along with our request to vote in order to finally bring about greater justice in the field of property taxes, inheritance and gift taxes! To the next area, environmental taxes: Here too, we are under the EU and OECD cuts. In so far, Mr Minister, it is already very surprising that you are praising the tax reform, although there are no aspects that actually include a form of environmental tax reform. In this respect, we also believe that it would have been time to take a big step towards implementing a non-profit, environmental tax reform. This is a good reason, as it is, of course, a double dividend, namely, to make an important contribution to environmental protection and to climate protection, and, on the other hand, to actually implement the reduction in additional labour costs and to provide an incentive to create jobs accordingly. But these are not only the two reasons in this form, but there are still others, which will also make it possible for the economy and companies to benefit massively. This also means saving energy costs by strengthening energy efficiency and by saving energy and by putting it on renewable energy. It is precisely these savings that can be invested elsewhere and the corresponding investments can also drive forward in the field of environmental technology. Austria can reduce its import dependence on oil and gas. In one year alone, €15 billion is spent on oil and gas. Imagine that this would flow into the Austrian economy, to Austrian companies, which would have an effect on the labour market. And such an ecological tax reform would create a very important contribution for jobs in the form that there is, of course, a driving force in the field of innovation and research and a lot of businesses that we have and that are some of the world's market leaders have an important impulse. Let me give you an example from Upper Austria: In the field of eco-energy alone, there are more than 170 companies that have joined forces, formed a cluster and are very successful on the export markets. And we have more than 150 environmental engineering companies that make up a cluster and create jobs successfully. This is exactly where an important impulse can be set. Mr. Minister, this is completely missing. Nor have the appropriate good impulses been set for research. This is no question, we need research and innovation, which is the central pillar for a modern, sustainable economy in order to create good jobs in the future. We need This is because we know that we have not only a standstill but also fallen off in the various rankings in recent years. Not only in the field of research, but of course also in the education system, there is a need for massive investment! Austria has a proven system of a mixture of direct and indirect research funding. Now I come to the field of tax research funding, to the research premium: This research premium certainly has its permissions, I think it is a good and important step that has been taken many years ago. This premium was increased a few years ago, in 2011, from 8 to 10 percent. In the course of this, it has been announced several times that an evaluation will be carried out to see how effective it is. Until today, ladies and gentlemen, many years have passed, there is no evaluation on the table. Now we have a template that in turn would increase this premium from 10 percent to 12 percent – without having well-founded documents, whether this is the right way to invest here or whether it would be good to invest these amounts accordingly in basic research. In that respect, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that it is time to do a comprehensive evaluation before rapid shots are made to verify efficiency. I should therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] In the interests of the good use of the means of taxation, I cordially invite you to accept this request!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e18552	The application is sufficiently supported, properly submitted and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e18609	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Big. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e18630	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. I would like to speak today in my speech on small businesses, because they have already been mentioned a lot today. This was usually supported by false “information. ” Where do small businesses benefit? – Small businesses benefit from the reduction in tariffs, as well as any other company as soon as it has a profitable company. If it makes little profit, it benefits from the lower social security benefit, since the minimum basis of assessment is also reduced. If he loses, an indefinite loss contract will be created for the first time. There are also improvements for small business operators in the field of basic income tax, as the amount of allowances has also been increased. There are also improvements in inheritance law, as we will still decide today, as the payments can be delayed. There are improvements in funding through the crowdfunding to be decided today, but also through the changes in the unfaithful section, which will make it easier to lend loans again. There are changes in financial criminal law, there are only more gross negligences. Small businesses have no legal departments, so they are particularly at risk of having a financial penalty due to slight negligence. There is support if you have a first employee, if you need a assistance, by removing the daily poverty limit. This can also be supported accordingly. Of course, there are also burdens, especially by increasing the basis of assessment, because if much profit is made, more must be paid to social security. However, you also receive more pension. We have a problem with the register. I do not understand why the introduction of Mickey-Mouse amounts is a matter of course. In principle, however, one can say: There are also advantages here, because in the case of a review by the financial office, the actual recording by the register against the otherwise easily possible estimate by the financial office helps. All in all, I must say that this reform does not bring any significant disadvantage to small businesses. Above all, the overall model that we will adopt today and in the next few days also has very good aspects, and I can well agree with it as a representative of small and medium-sized enterprises. A few more words on Mr Stefan's comments: I don't think your research was very up-to-date. The partial payment confirmation in the family farm has fallen, which is no longer available. So, in principle, that's not the case. [[Abg. Stefan: Show me that!]] There are also a large number of areas in which less can be achieved, especially in rural areas, where transport values are relatively low. And there are also reasonable methods of calculation which are currently being adopted on the basis of the regulation in order to avoid such incidents as possible. So the speech was no longer quite up-to-date. That is why I also hope that we will carry out the bill. [[Abg. Podgorschek: This was an example of practice!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e18680	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e18702	Mr President. Mr. Minister of Agriculture, who has to take up the tax reform debate here! High house! Estimated audience! The – quotation mark – “tax reform” sets the This Federal Government's unplanned labour market policy continues wonderfully. We have often heard the word "additional costs" today, and – Mr Groß of the ÖVP has mentioned it – the maximum contribution base is raised out of the way to fill the empty cash that this government has caused. And Rudi Hundstorfer will be able to stand outside again and say: It's all right, the pensions are safe! And the ÖVP has nothing to do with it again. In addition to the Minister for Social Affairs, there are other winners of this extra-tourist increase in the maximum contribution base. This is all about this tax reform, the vortex you're beating here. The Chamber of Labour also benefits and receives additional millions in the red money store if the maximum contribution base is increased out of the way. And your red and black guardians with the luxury pensions also benefit because the reduction of the luxury pensions is oriented at the highest contribution base. Therefore, these cuts are now less severe, and thick fish remain a little more money in the wallet. The Stock Exchange sign can now be lifted up again, which would fit well with the luxury pensions. [[towards SPÖ]] The increase in the negative tax may promote the start of a job, but it also has the effect of developing a tax fall for people who earn little, because it is no longer enough to work at the border of the negative tax on taxable income. And this is how you encourage women in particular to stay with the low-earning workers and also to have a lower pension. Then you'll have someone you can take care of and spoil with other people's tax money because you made them dependent on the system. The doubling of the child allowance – and we will then automate everything, and it's all great. What you have not managed to do is to gather together the countless possibilities of family promotion that exist in Austria, all kinds of deposits and allowances, and so on, and to switch from money to benefits in kind to ensure that the money that the state spends really comes to the children. I therefore propose the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] The government seems to have given up the fight against unemployment. Only in this way can it be explained that education is being saved, although we know that we have problems in the labour market with people who have an under-average level of education. The education allowance and the education premium are abolished. These instruments, however, are particularly important in order to be attractive for continuing vocational training and to keep the people in the acquisition process at work for the future. As we consider this step of ÖVP and SPÖ to be a mistake, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] If you wonder why I read all this, I'll tell you: Nice greetings from a not very practical Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e18808	Both motion for a resolution and amendment are sufficiently supported, properly implemented and are therefore under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e18939	Next speaker: Mrs Yılmaz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e18958	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Schultes, I really like to pay taxes. I know, I see it every day who will benefit. Single parents, children, those at risk of poverty are being cared for by the same doctor as me, including the minimum pensioner. That is why I am very happy to pay the taxes. Ladies and gentlemen, today is really a good day for taxpayers and a very, very good day for micro-earners, because Mr Zakostelsky has tabled an amendment. Today, we will also decide on the automatic labour force accounts. This means that many people, including women and micro-earners, who do not make employee accounts – at least 50 percent – will be left to the Ministry of Finance €200 million a year, which will automatically transfer money. It is therefore not only the largest tax reform of the Second Republic, but also the most just. Up there's always air, you can work on it. I thank the two government parties. Many have jumped over their shadows, some more, some less. There has been a really good, acceptable package. I thank you for that. And we can work on it even further. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e18990	I call Mr Willi. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e19011	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schultes, I'd like to pay taxes. This is my contribution to the common good. I have had the advantage of enjoying a good education system. This is only possible if taxpayers finance an education system. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And I disagree with you when you say that taxes are “performance-inhibiting”. We are currently experiencing a strong move from South Tyrol companies to Tyrol. Why? - Because they say: You people in Tyrol have well-trained people. With you, the administrative procedures work. One quickly comes to an operating permit. There are rule of law, legal certainty. These are all the factors that give entrepreneurs incentives to come to Tyrol, say Austria. It is therefore not true that taxes are anti-performance. So, and now I come to talk about your tax reform package. Ladies and gentlemen of red and black, it's already a piece of art: They make a “tax reform”, as you call it, of €5.2 billion – and praise it as “the greatest discharge of the last decades”. And what are you reaping? – Protests, strikes, emails, hundreds, thousands; the protest is huge. Where's the applause? - I don't hear him. You have to bring that together! [[Demonstratative condolences with the Greens.]] This must be brought together to give a discharge of €5.2 billion, and the people are dissatisfied. And I tell you why: because people notice that the counter-financing of this package has a very serious wrong. We of the Greens are quite in agreement with the Reds: If we'd been there, we'd have gotten the money from the super-rich and the rich. But that prevented the black half of the empire! [[Abg. Wöginger: Exactly!]] And now have to You're laboring to get the money together somewhere else, and that's what gives you no applause. Now I come to the second and more important part of my speech. The Minister for the Environment, who always says that he is blessed for Austria. Minister for the Environment, where remains You're acting generously in this tax reform? All experts know that a tax reform needs an eco-social component today. We are experiencing the consequences of climate change in these days – if we were to step out of the house, we would experience the consequences of climate change. [[Abg. Darmann: This is the season!]] If we do not finally start to make an eco-social tax reform, we do not assume responsibility for future generations. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, where is the responsibility of the Minister for the Environment for an eco-social tax reform? We have a complete package, we have a 4 billion € model with which we repaint revenue-neutral. The message is simple: Those who consume energy, especially fossil energy, consume and sprinkling, who do not use resources with gentle means, who pays, so to speak, has a “threat. ” On the other hand, if you sparingly deal with energy, if you are clean, you get a “cleanness bonus”. That would be a clear signal, and you, Mr Environment Minister, are required to implement it. So far, you haven't made it. I expect you to develop a bit more muscles over the next few months and years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e19089	Mr Kucher. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e19111	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Willi, you asked: Where's the applause? For two reasons, this is a bit strange in my view. We all went to politics to represent values, though different. Complaint is not always the priority goal in politics, but the right thing to do. Polishing is one thing, but I believe that this tax reform has also shown great courage to address unpopular things. To sum up, however, we have put in place measures that will relieve the population in Austria and especially the small earners and middle earners. 5.2 billion €, that's certainly not little! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We all can also talk about environmental protection, and believe me, I really have sympathy for it. What I always personally lack with the Greens is the social component. I think everyone would like to drive the electric car through Austria if they could afford it, but it doesn't do anything to make it more expensive if people can't afford the car even now. It is no good to finance the most expensive solar panels in the field of environmental promotions, while there are other people who can hardly afford the apartment. This is the social aspect I often miss. That's where the greens should just re-adjust. [[Abg. Willi: Who is the government?]] [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: In Vienna we have discounted the public!]] In total, we have today presented a beautiful model that has succeeded in using €5.2 billion to boost the economy and also to relieve small and medium-sized incomes in particular. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This success has also been achieved thanks to the support of 882,000 supporters who have put pressure on the trade union movement. It's a lot possible in this country when you're fighting. We will continue to fight, particularly in the field of capital taxes. Something has already been done in this area in small steps; further steps will be taken. We will stick to it so that something is happening in the field of property taxes. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Obernosterer.]] I already hear a brief call from Mr Obernoster. This is the second myth of the ÖVP, which I cannot fully understand, namely the fear of wealth taxes. For me, this is really anti-performance. The Minister of Agriculture was very proud of it today and really believed that something to inherit is an achievement. And hard work is probably not a performance. [[Abg. Obernosterer: You have to do something so you can inherit something!]] I just don't understand the world anymore. I think that in Austria one should be so fair as to relieve labour and burden wealth. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I mean, that would be fair and fair. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] To inherit, Mr Obernosterer, this is not yet a performance; it is a non-performance wage! [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] No, but to inherit, this is a non-performance wage! Why pay little taxes for non-performance and much for performance? I think you should talk about other topics as a former party of performance providers. I have another motion for a resolution on the transmission of donation data. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] – There is such a great excitement inside; You must discuss this issue with the Minister for Agriculture. That's not what I mentioned first! With the tax reform law, we have also pursued the goal of making donations much easier to apply for tax by transmitting the donation data. To this end, there is now a motion for a resolution calling on the Federal Ministry of Finance to support and create a single IT interface and, together with the donor organisations, to facilitate a simple settlement: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e19245	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place, and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e19308	Next speaker: Mr Christ. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e19330	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! Dear spectators at home in front of the televisions! High house! We are shortly before the adoption of the largest tax reform of the Second Republic, and it is certainly a good day for the Austrians. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The representatives of the government parties have explained in detail the reform and its individual points. The opposition speakers have mostly spoken badly, as it was expected. I am not going to go into this out of general savings considerations, so I only allow myself a brief summary of the most essential and positive points. Ladies and gentlemen, the tax reform is sustainable because it is the largest in the Second Republic, because it will massively prevent tax fraud and tax evasion, because it will have a particularly positive impact on workers, because it will also bring benefits to people with the smallest incomes and pensioners, and because it is financed by good measures. – These are all points that are important for us Social Democrats. This tax reform is also palpable and tangible, because it clearly brings more justice, it brings more in the Stock Exchange, we have already shown today, it therefore brings more purchasing power and thus also sets necessary economic impulses, it brings contributions from the rich and super-rich in Austria, it is also proven to be real, and it brings more solidarity, and that is more important in times like this one ever. – Again, the points that are so important for us Social Democrats. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to end by losing a few sentences to the colleagues of the FPÖ. Today, the FPÖ delegates are once again straining the concept of cold progression, while for their verbal rides, the concept of ice-cold aggression would be more striking. In my opinion, the FPÖ has lost every right to criticise or slander this tax reform because its services in its reign have caused lasting damage to this country and its citizens. But you didn't care about the workers, the pensioners and the micro-earners – and now you would suddenly be the saviors of these groups. These groups are particularly important to us, and this is also reflected in the tax reform. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Singer.]] That's why I'm saying: Less ice-cold aggression, less populism and less choking of envy, because we can continue to give up these contributions in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e19391	Mr Kirchgatterer came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e19414	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The aim of this tax reform was to relieve the tax on labour. This has been successful for the employees, the pensioners and the self-employed in small and medium-sized enterprises, i.e. most of the Austrians. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, especially in this economic situation, it is extremely necessary to implement this tax reform. The tax reduction will strengthen purchasing power, strengthen domestic demand and thus boost the economy and investment willingness, which is correct in this economic situation. This makes Austria unique in Europe, and nowhere else is there such an economic package. Ladies and gentlemen! In the discussion, all four opposition parties showed each other the contradictions, each one the contradictions of the other, and it became clear and clear that the opposition in the individual areas could be raised in terms of expenditure and could not be spoken of by budgetary discipline on the part of the opposition. In contrast, the government has proved budgetary discipline. In recent years, a better billing result has always been achieved than previously budgeted. That speaks for the government and against the opposition. Today is an important day for all Austrians, for the economic development of Austria. I think it's going to be a big bit uphill again. It is now much successful for the Austrians, even before the summer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e19458	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. Since there are large amendments or additional amendments, requests for separate votes and requests for a vote by name and a short interruption of the part-session in preparation for the vote, I shall put the vote on points 3 and 4 until after the vote on agenda items 5 to 8. [[14:43:54]] 5. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (686, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act establishing a federal law on deposit protection and investor compensation for credit institutions and amending the Banking Act, the Financial Market Supervisory Authority Act, the Securities Supervisory Act 2007, the Investment Fund Act 2011, the Alternative Investment Fund Manager Act, the Savings Act and the Rehabilitation and Resolution Act (751 d.b.) 6. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (670 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Stock Exchange Act 1989, the Capital Market Act and the Accounting Control Act (752 d.b.) 7. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (671, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Investment Fund Act 2011 and the Real Estate Investment Fund Act (753 d.b.) 8. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (678, e.g._Other Organiser Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the Republic of Mauritius on the exchange of information in tax matters (754 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e19525	We continue on the agenda and come to points 5 to 8, on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. It is the first Member of Parliament to report on the matter. DDr. Fuchs. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e19552	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Values Advisors! In advance, I welcome the delegation of the Egyptian exile parliament at the audience gallery and may wish the Egyptian colleagues an interesting stay here in the heart of Austrian democracy. [[General condolences.]] On the matter: The Federal Government is very generous when it comes to the acceptance of liability for Greece. However, in the case of local savers, this Deposit Guarantee and Investor Reimbursement Act, in short ESAEG, is intended to stem from responsibility. EU law is called into question both in the case of the acceptance of liability for Greece and in the case of child-moving among local savers. Austria's grants to Greece in the form of loans and liabilities amount to around €8.1 billion. With regard to the sum of the inhabitants of the Eurozone, we are Vice-European champions in taking over liabilities – even before Germany. This volume of liability is 1.6 times as much as the volume of this tax reform. In the event of bank insolvency, banks are currently liable for the first € 50 000 per deposit, from € 50 000 to € 100 000, the federal government comes in. However, the Federal Government intends to withdraw from the deposit guarantee by the ESAEG until 2019. From then on, banks will have to take over the guarantee for savings deposits alone. This guarantee is to be carried out through a fund to which each bank will pay 0.8 percent of its deposits from this date on. The target is a fund volume of €1.5 billion up to 2025. To illustrate to you the relation of these 1.5 billion: In the past, the Greeks fixed much more than €1.5 billion a day from the banknotes. We liberties do not want this deposit guarantee law or a cross-border protection of bank funds through a Europe-wide deposit guarantee fund as the third pillar of the banking union. A Europe-wide deposit guarantee fund would not be a protection of our local savers, but a new takeover of liabilities for marode foreign banks. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The Federal Government should continue to have the possibility of liable for refundable deposits in order to ensure the strong confidence of the savers in the security of the Austrian economy. to strengthen the rich financial market. “Small savers” need safety and should not be afraid to lose everything in a bank crash. I therefore propose an amendment which prevents a complete withdrawal of the State from the legal deposit guarantee for savings. In addition, credit institutions seeking recognition of institutional collateral systems as a deposit guarantee and investor compensation system should not be forced to build expensive parallel structures, although it is already clear that they will again be obsolete in 2019. Therefore, recognition should be possible already this year and not only 2019. That too is the content of the amendment. Finally, I propose an amendment to the Investment Fund Act 2011, item 7. In order to prevent any abuse by speculators, § 186 para. 5 Z 2 lit. b Investment Fund Act the exception from the legal fiction from 50 to 150 shareholders. A clear no to this deposit guarantee law and a clear no to the third pillar of the banking union.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e19629	Both amendments are sufficiently supported, were presented in the key points and are therefore under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e19801	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Zakostelsky. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e19819	Mr President. Federal Minister! I shall put forward a motion for an amendment tabled by the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Andreas Zakostelsky, Jan Krainer, colleagues on the government template of a federal law amending the Investment Fund Act 2011 and the Property Investment Fund Act (671 of the Supplements), as amended by the Committee Report (753 of the Supplements). In terms of content, outlines the most important points: On the one hand – and this is actually the majority of this amendment – it concerns amendments relating to: the basic acquisition tax, so that the reduced tax rate of 0.5 percent can be applied. The second point concerns an exception for banks in connection with securities lending, which is also a technical point, but very important for practice. The issue is that special funds, which are 100 percent owned by banks, can also be credited to 100 percent of the securities loan. Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In order to get the deposit guarantee in the narrower sense, I can do the following for those who may not know it in detail: We have five banking sectors in Austria. The deposit guarantee has so far been divided into these five sectors, and if a payment case has occurred, the deposit guarantee facility of the sector in question must first be withdrawn. If this deposit insurance facility was overwhelmed, it would have been left to the others, i.e. the other four deposit insurance facilities. It was related that € 100 000 were guaranteed each, with the division according to the current legal situation being such that deposit insurance institutions had to pay 50 percent, i.e. 50 000 of 100 000, and the state covered the second half, i.e. 50 000. In the future, only the institutions themselves will be used for payment by the present Federal Law on Deposit Guarantee. The taxpayer will no longer have to bear any costs here. - A very important point. This law has four primary objectives to summarise: First, an important point: the timely coverage of claims in such a case; Secondly, as mentioned above, the cover is purely from the financial resources of the banks; Thirdly, there is the creation of a Europe-wide single system of safeguards, and thus a well-understandable system for the population, which is also cross-border; Fourthly, the strengthening of investor confidence in deposit guarantee, in order to know that such systems are also established in the other countries. One essential point of implementation is that the management of these deposit guarantee systems will no longer be in the individual banking sectors, but from 1 January. January 2019 is located in the Chamber of Commerce. That is, I think, a rather reasonable approach. On the point of timely cover mentioned above: So far, institutions and deposit insurance institutions have had 20 days, in the future the payout must take place within seven days. What remains the same – and that is, I believe, important –: There are 100 000 € secured per customer per bank. This means that a customer can theoretically have several such 100 000 € accounts at several banks. As mentioned above, all claims arising from these collateral cases must be paid in the future only by the bank guarantee institutions and the funds set up for this purpose. That's a good thing. At the same time, it should be noted that the part of the bank levy, which was precisely aimed at creating or teaching a fund for such collateral cases, has therefore become obsolete and therefore at the latest in the autumn at the latest. The new regulation will ask whether the bank levy is charged to the deposit guarantee funds. Ladies and gentlemen! The draft to be adopted today gives rise to a balanced structure: On the one hand, an important contribution to Europe-wide harmonisation has been made here, and on the other hand – not unimportantly – a solution is created that is compatible with Austrian conditions and therefore practical. We know that further development of our economic location will also be crucial for future investments, in order to create jobs, and as a basis for this, we need, of course, healthy credit institutions, a competitive financial base, and for this, ladies and gentlemen, credit institutions also need planned framework conditions and regulatory rules, which are also practical – regulation rules are important, but must be practical, otherwise we will paralyze Austria's economic location. And I think the deposit guarantee law, as it is here, is a reasonable building block for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e19908	The amendment is sufficiently supported, has been explained in the cornerstones and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e20025	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e20046	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, there are some reasonable elements in the implementation of the directive, even if they do not taste all. On the other hand, an unexplained, very bitterly tasted advertising drop remains an unexplained, yet unexplained for us. This is about the withdrawal of the state liability so to speak at the end of the chain. This may seem contradictory for some now, because otherwise we constantly argue that the tax liability should be taken out when it comes to banks – is everything right, too, should be – but we need to see what we are talking about. We are now talking about deposit guarantee up to €100 000 – that is the new agreed amount that we are not talking about. We could have lived at €50,000 or €75 000 earlier, but that is no longer the subject. In fact – Bruno Rossmann nodds – our concerns have not been scattered in the committee either. We were – ready to ask anyway – also ready for discussion, but I don't think it's only up to us that we're not much smarter in the afterlife than before. And in this respect, our scepticism remains true, but this kind of rules has been done to get us back and forth, so to speak, to re-adjust and make new ones. Perhaps it will succeed sometime to reach a common understanding here. At least today it is not yet ready; They're gonna hurt it. I would like to make two basic comments: The construction of these funds, as it were, from the bank resources, quoted along the deposits, is a contribution to the fact that the financial sector itself generates buffers, even though they will not be enough for the very large dramas at the end, but we are already satisfied when we intercept the small and medium sized ones. This is a step in the right direction and has similar effects from the incentive effects, but above all also in the sequences in the case of possible flaws like other funds that are made there. We also think this is reasonable, namely that there are bank settlement funds, et cetera – always considering that the taxpayer is coming to an end. But it is not exactly when it comes to deposit protection, that I am not necessarily comprehensible, why this most important element in terms of saving and security, especially in the sense of a market economy, where many “small ones” need to have confidence, is missing this trust element. It is still the case that the cheapest and most secure last liability is still the budget. Although we do not want to claim this in the matter, only if it has a sense somewhere, then there, we are convinced. But it's good, that this buffer is built up before. However, we do not want to miss the last security.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e20089	I call Mr Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e20110	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I am going to continue where Mr Kogler started: We must not forget how we came into the system of almost purely state guarantee. [[President Bures takes over the presidency again.]] In 2008 we experienced through the pleite of the then Bank Lehman Brothers that the half-world has been pushed into a financial crisis within days, in which it was not guaranteed that a situation, as they now experience the Greek men and women in particular at the banking venues, does not also occur with us. One of the decisive measures was to prevent the so-called Bank Run from happening. And it was still on the first day German Chancellor Merkel with Steinbrück in Germany and a day later German chancellor Gusenbauer with Vice Chancellor Molterer, who guaranteed that the savings assets were at least secured by state funds. This was an emergency measure at a difficult time, and it was clear that we must return to systems across Europe, but also in Austria, in the field of deposit protection, where the taxpayer is not the sole debtor. This path in Europe – it is a more difficult one – we are going, part of the implementation is here, and we are taking the opportunity, with the current decisions, to modernise the traditional but perhaps no longer quite contemporary structures of deposit guarantee. We have so far had a highly sectoral system and will have a reasonable central system with the fund from 2019 onwards, all of which will be included, and we hope that if there is a problem in the next few years, we will not have to use the taxpayer at least. And there are also improvements for the savers. It will shorten the time until they get replacement performance, from 30 days to a maximum of 7 working days, and we also have with the uniform security structure a form in which the individual knows exactly where he gets his money and how much is secured. Once we have reached 2024, we will also have a corresponding security. A few comments to the other templates. On agenda item 6: Progress is being made in implementing the new transparency requirements for listed companies. It is the chance for investors to have fair treatment in the capital markets. What we need to talk about is: How do we make sure that managers may not have a problem because an ad hoc message is 10 minutes too late? There you will still have to work on appropriate guidelines, on which the board of listed companies can also orientate. On the other two items on the agenda, perhaps one more point. To Mauritius: This is a good way: where we do not have a double taxation agreement, a network with agreements where we obtain the data from tax refugees. I'm sorry. Let us hope that this tax refugee question might have been in the past in 10, 20 years. In summary, you can say: Good templates in good addition to today's tax reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e20174	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Alm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e20196	Madam President. Mr. Minister! High house! I refer to the point of the Alternative Investment Fund Manager Act, which is also being negotiated here, and I would like to add here a supplement that is not quite essential if one thinks that Austria's financial centre also has to create a market for private venture capital. This law also created the qualified private investor, but unfortunately this qualified private investor is obliged to invest at least €100 000. This sum is too high. If you want private to invest your money in such ways, you also have to allow it to be invested. We would suggest that this sum will be evaluated in itself, whether it is needed at all. In any event, you can reduce this sum and the corresponding application is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e20248	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e20306	The next speaker is Mr Lipitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e20328	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, The federal law on deposit protection and investor compensation is, I believe, an important topic to give people the security to get their savings back. This law provides for the creation of a security facility in the form of a liability company established in the Chamber of Commerce. It is a matter of bringing in the claims of a faster cover, such a case should occur to ensure that these cover claims are secured from banks' financial resources, that a single system is created and thus the confidence of depositors is strengthened. To date, a cover of liability claims may take up to 30 days. Here the law is laid down, until 2024 the period for this cover is cut down to 7 days. In other words, after 7 working days the liability claims must be paid. The cover of the claims arising from the financial resources of the banks eliminates the cover of the liability claims from € 50 000 to € 100 000 from the Federal Republic of Germany. In addition, we have in committee an amendment tabled by Members Mag. Andreas Zakostelsky, Jan Krainer, colleagues on the government template concerning a federal law establishing a federal law on deposit protection and investor compensation for credit institutions and amending the Banking Act, the Financial Market Supervisory Authority Act, the Securities Supervisory Act 2007, the Investment Fund Act 2011, the Alternative Investment Fund Manager Act, the Savings Act and the Rehabilitation and Settlement Act (686 of the Supplements), as amended by the Committee Report (751 of the Supplements), and I would like to briefly explain this amendment request, which is distributed. In Article 2, paragraph 25 is added as follows: "The Federal Minister for Finance may, according to special legal authority, be liable for credit operations under the terms of Paragraphs 1 and 2. 1 to be taken over.’ It is about the fact that, if the Fund is exhausted, additional loans can be received through this guarantee facility, through the liability of the federal government, in order to be able to comply with the liability. § 59 points 2 and 3 deals with the clarification of the liability company new or the liability associations old in this transition until 2019. Then we still have § 59 Z 9, which concerns these credit institutions, which currently have to accept deposits and belong to a bond. Further: The transitional scheme, which was supplemented by the addition of the second paragraph. 2 is inserted, taking into account the necessary technical preliminary periods as regards the information requirements in accordance with § 37a. - That's the amendment. A uniform system is hereby established, the different systems being merged. It aims to strengthen investor confidence in this security, and it is also clearly stated that financial market supervision has a clear supervisory and reporting obligation, which strengthens the entire system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e20379	The amendment was tabled in accordance with § 53 para. 4 GOG to all MEPs and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e20521	The next speaker was Mr Vogl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e20543	I would like to refer to the item on the agenda 6 with which we are going to amend the Stock Exchange Act today. The main issue is that we will implement several EU directives with this change of law. These EU directives have three main objectives. On the one hand, it is about getting more information about the social interests of companies. Secondly, it is about making administrative simplifications for SMEs and, thirdly, it is about achieving greater transparency and security for investors. The EU Directive will be adopted by 26. This year, we will enter into force, with the time frame set by the EU for implementation, until the last day. In the field of information obligations to the public, oil, gas and mining companies, as well as in the field of wood impact in primary forests, are particularly affected. These must be publicly available to public institutions in the future. I believe it will only be apparent in several years, what this has for improving quality in terms of public decisions and in this public sector. Secondly, this directive also implements that the penalties will be intensified and in future the penalties imposed will be transparent on the Internet, which will also improve information to the public. In the area of administrative simplification, the aim is to abolish quarterly reports for small enterprises that are not active in the Prime Market. This is, of course, an administrative simplification for companies, but one should also say at this point that the reports themselves need improvement. After all, 5 percent of the reports submitted by the companies today are incorrect, and 25 percent of the reports of companies whose shares are traded on the European stock exchanges show a lack of forecasts. In other words, this energy, which is separated from the quarterly reports, should perhaps be used to significantly improve the quality of the reports. The essential aspect of this change in law is to achieve greater transparency. The reporting requirements for the participations will be more stringent. This means that if certain thresholds are exceeded, the aggregation of participations is also managed more strictly. It is important that there is an automatic principle of origin. So far, it has been more or less possible not to designate a Member State as a country of origin and thus avoid any control on the exchanges. There will be no such thing in the future. There will be a single European data access. And what's important is: It will be in the future that the annual reports will not be five years, but ten years will be transparent and accessible. So, in total, more investor transparency, more security, and I think a good regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e20588	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Unterrainer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e20609	I am speaking today about item 8 of the agenda, the agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Mauritius on the exchange of information in tax matters. Tax evasion and tax evasion are a crime in society. We're not talking about a cavalier crime here. Those who go after the state ensure that children do not get their best education, that people with disabilities are not supported, or that pensions are not covered. Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen on the ranks and in front of the screens at home! The dimension of tax fraud is a huge one. This year alone, € 1 to 1.2 trillion will be carried past the Fiscus in the European Union. That's €200 billion. That's a number – sheer inconceivable! That's a number with twelve. Zeros. For comparison – because just an up-to-date topic, a sad one –: It corresponds to the three and a half times the Greek deficit, and this is the case each year. Calculations have shown that this money would free all EU countries from debt in about eight years. But tax fraud is not the same as tax fraud, there are the various back doors and the various loopholes, partly even completely legal. Multinational corporations are using a system that has also been created by the EU countries themselves. The countries themselves are thus in competition with each other, because the multis are, of course, calculating where the requirements and taxes are least. Sector giants such as Amazon, Apple or Starbucks have a single similarity: You deserve very, very magnificent and pay as well as no taxes! This imbalance has to be offset, because it is more than just unfair, it is fraud against the citizen and it is simple and gripping fraud against the taxpayer. Not to be forgotten either: Today's Commission President Juncker has been Luxembourg's head of government for years, a tax haven in the middle of Europe. We feel really painful that the EU has not been able to agree on a decent financial pact until today. Austria loses about 9.7 percent of its tax revenue through the back door. In Italy it is even 27 percent. In addition, the fact that parked black money is not available for the real economy is still present. For the agreement itself: This is a contract between the Governments of Mauritius and Austria, which is designed to guarantee a voluntary exchange of information in tax matters, subject of course to the information collected by the authorities of Mauritius and Austria. A double taxation agreement, which would in principle be better, was considered not appropriate because of the lack of a common legal basis because of Mauritius's tax haven. This voluntary information exchange is about the Austrian income and capital tax sectors and income tax on the side of Mauritius. All in all, I see this agreement as a right step in the right direction, a step towards greater tax honesty and a contribution to the fight against fraud, and that is why we will also agree to it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e20665	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 5: Draft federal law, which introduces a federal law on deposit protection and investor compensation for credit institutions and amends the Banking Act, the Financial Market Supervisory Authority Act, the Securities Supervisory Act and other laws, into 686 of the Supplements. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent Fuchs, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an additional amendment or amendment. In addition, the Members of Parliament have power. Mr Zakostelsky, Mr Krainer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, tabled an additional amendment or amendment. First of all, I will vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary or amending proposals, following the classification of the draft law, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted on. Deputies DDr. Fuchs, colleagues, and others have tabled an additional request for the inclusion of a new paragraph 3 in Article 2(25). Whoever stands up for it, give a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. The Members of Parliament also have power. Mr Zakostelsky, Mr Krainer, Mr Colleagues, tabled an additional request concerning the insertion of a new paragraph 3 in Article 2(25). Whoever stands for this, give a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The request was accepted. Deputies Mag. Zakostelsky, Krainer, colleagues and others have tabled an amendment concerning Article 2(59)(2). Whoever stands up for this, give a positive sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. Deputies DDr. Fuchs, colleagues and others have tabled an amendment concerning Article 2(59)(3). Whoever is here, please give a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. Deputies Mag. Zakostelsky, Krainer, colleagues and others have tabled an amendment concerning Article 2(59)(3). I ask those Members who agree to this to give a corresponding sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. Deputies DDr. Fuchs, colleagues and others have tabled an amendment concerning Article 2(59)(5). I ask those Members of the House who speak for it to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law as it stands. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this part to give a sign in this regard. - That's the majority. Accepted. Deputies DDr. Fuchs, colleagues and others have tabled an amendment to Article 2(59)(7). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give him the consent to a corresponding sign – that is the minority. The application is rejected. In addition to Article 2(59)(7), the Members of Parliament shall also have power. Mr Zakostelsky, Mr Krainer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, tabled an amendment. I ask for a sign upon consent. - That's the majority. The request was accepted. Deputies Mag. Zakostelsky, Krainer, colleagues and others have an amendment concerning Article 2(59)(9) lit. d. I would ask those members of the House who give their consent to a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Deputies DDr. Fuchs, colleagues, and others have tabled an additional proposal which refers to the insertion of a new point 11a in Article 2(59). If you join this supplementary request, please give a sign on this matter. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Deputies DDr. Fuchs, colleagues and others have tabled an amendment relating to Article 2(59) Z 13. Whoever is here for this, please give a sign about it. – This is the minority. Rejected. Deputies Mag. Zakostelsky, Krainer, colleagues have tabled an amendment which refers to Article 2 § 59 Z 13. I would ask those members of the House who are in favour of it to give a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The request was accepted. Deputies Mag. Zakostelsky, Krainer, colleagues and others have tabled an amendment concerning Article 3. When I agree, I'm looking for an important sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a sign in this regard. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are also in third reading for this draft law, to give a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Alm, ladies and gentlemen, on the reduction of the minimum investment amount for private investors. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 6: Draft federal law amending the Stock Exchange Act 1989, the Capital Market Act and the Accounting Control Act, including title and receipt in 670 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 7: Draft federal law amending the Investment Fund Act 2011 and the Real Estate Investment Fund Act in 671 of the Supplements. The following applications have been submitted: Amendment or amendment tabled by Mr Mag. Zakostelsky, Krainer, colleagues, Amendment tabled by Mr Ddr. Fuchs, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I will vote on the parts concerned by these supplementary or amending proposals, following the classification of the draft law, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted on. Deputies Mag. Zakostelsky, Krainer, Members of Parliament have tabled an additional proposal concerning the inclusion of a new Z 46a in Article 2. If you join this supplementary request, please give a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Deputies DDr. Fuchs, colleagues and others have tabled an amendment concerning Article 2 Z 49. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law as it stands. I ask those Members of the House who give their consent to a sign of confirmation. - That's the majority. Accepted. Deputies Mag. Zakostelsky, Krainer, colleagues and others have tabled an additional or amendment concerning Article 2 Z 59 and Article 3. I would like to ask for a sign on this subject if I agree. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 8: Proposal from the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty: Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of the Republic of Mauritius on the exchange of information in tax matters, in 678 of the supplements referred to in Article 50(1). 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[15:25:30]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to announce that the vote on Agenda items 3 and 4 needs to be relocated due to its complexity and also several national votes. The vote will take place at the end of the agenda items 10 to 13. [[15:26:25]] 9. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (688, e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, which amends the general Civil Code, the Anderben Act, the Extraordinary Law, the Law on Court Fees, the Law on Court Commissioners, the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Laws of the Law on the Laws of the Law of the Laws of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e20956	This brings us to item 9 of the agenda. There was no oral reporting. Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Stefan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e20983	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We now deal with a change in inheritance law, and as the main argument for this is very often used: These provisions have been and have been in force for 200 years, and should therefore be amended. – Of course, that sounds cool on the one hand, but on the other hand you have to think about why it is. If there is such a long existence, then it can be assumed that those who worked it out and decided to do so at the time have thought it very carefully, thought it through and formulated it very clearly in themselves. And right now, our criticism of what we are being presented today is that unfortunately this is not the case. This inheritance law reform has certainly drawn on and incorporated knowledge from practice, and it has very probably been taken into account in social developments, but – and now I come to the criticisms that cause us not to agree – a few mistakes or inaccuracies or inaccuracies have occurred, namely: First of all, there's a little bit of a confusion. In the course of the amendment of the law, expressions are now being changed, and in turn these expressions do not agree with those of the EU inheritance law regulation which has just come into force. For example, the term ‘leaving’ is replaced by ‘deather’ or ‘residence’ by ‘retirement’. That just leads to difficulties. If terms are not consistently used, of course, this is always very problematic in a law. Also the terms “final order”, “last will”, “order”, “testament” are not consistently used in themselves. This is simply legal problems and ultimately leads to problems in the application of course. A positive point in itself is that there should now be a compulsory part-funding. That is, if someone has to pay out a part of it – especially for companies, for family companies that may have to pay out a part of it – then there is now the possibility of spending up to five years on this part of duty. This is positive because such a compulsory part payment could possibly be devastating for a company. However, this obligation is to be paid by 4 per cent, and this is already very problematic, because a company that cannot pay the same amount will have its problems with this 4 per cent, even at the current interest rate level. A second problem: There is the possibility of a so-called estate separation. That means, for example, if someone thinks and fears that his duty is not served out of the estate, then one can demand that this be ensured. This is a so-called estate separation. This is, of course, contrary to the payment of the allowance, i.e. the possibility to pay only five years later, and this contradiction is not resolved in the bill. – A critical point of ours, too. It now introduces the right of inheritance of the companion. It is a social reality that there are more and more companions, but on the other hand The legislator has always been aware of this: The definition of ‘life companion’ is problematic. What must be the companion compared to a mate? If he has to live with his partner, do they have to have shared accounts, do they have to have a sexual relationship? What do spouses need to have? - They don't have to have all of this. So this is always very difficult: When does a community begin, when does it end? One says it started there, the other says, there. One says we've already finished her, the other says we're not. So the definition of “Community of life” in itself is already very problematic, and therefore also in this case, because the right of inheritance clearly always takes effect only when one of the two cannot ask. This is now a difficulty in this law. It is also regulated in such a way that the partner inherits if there are no legal heirs, but before a legacy is taken into account as an inheritance. “Memorative” means that one must have made a final order active, one has done something to someone, and this betrothal is subordinated to the companion of life. This is illogical from our point of view, for if you make a final decision, so sit down and think about how to regulate your estate, then you will probably use the companion or the companion of life. If you don't do that and something you can do to someone else by legacy, then you probably thought about it. Of course, you can always debate what someone thought, but from the logic, the right thing would be: first of all, the beggar and then, if there is no such one, the companion of life. – This too is a problem that we point out, a regulation that we believe is not correct. There is now a so-called care legacy in this bill. – Also, a fundamentally correct approach is to say that someone who has cared for the deceased should also get a performance out of the estate. This is basically correct because this is a real social problem, but there are also several problems in this context which are not solved in the proposal. It may not have been thought far enough. The evaluation of these care benefits, who does that? It's not really solved. It is tried in this law, but it is not really dissolved. The limitation of the persons who receive a so-called care legacy, namely only on the rightful and certain relatives or potential heirs – if, for example, the children of the partner, which is also life-reality, have been cared for, they do not get anything – and this restriction of the person group is, in our opinion, also a mistake. One point that we do not like is that, in the course of this, the rules on the form were also abolished in the case of the wills of the councillors. So far, there has been the provision that those in charge could only make a will under special formal regulations to protect them, because such people are usually more likely to be influenced. This has now been abolished with the argument that they would be discriminated against. In reality, this is a protection and not discrimination. – Also something we don't feel good about. There are a few other points that have triggered our criticism, but that now leads too far. Overall, we are disappointed that the proper approach in large areas has been wrong by the fact that one has worked too inaccurately and has not really submitted a coherent further development of inheritance law. That is why we will not agree to this with a little regret.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e21053	Next speaker: Mr Haubner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e21074	Madam President. Mr. Minister! I think that the new right of inheritance fully takes into account the social changes and the legal feelings of the population. For this purpose, around 350 paragraphs of the over 200-year-old law are novelled in the eight main features of this law. I think that this is once a very essential point, and if today all the parties agree – except for the liberals, I believe – we are on the right path. Our business world is, as has already been said today, a world of family businesses, and I would just like to speak briefly about your comments, Mr Stefan. I mean, when it comes to the acquisition tax, we have done something very important in the company's transfers, namely that there is no costing. There is a free limit of 900 000, with a farm worth 1 million costs the transfer of 500 €. [[Abg. Stefan: In return!]] – It's not in the process, you have to look at it carefully, we've been working well. The transfers in the family continue to be affordable accordingly. What we are doing now with this change of law is very important, because in the next ten years 58 000 farms and two thirds of them in the family are coming to take over. The rapid shattering and modernisation of this law is an important step, especially for our entrepreneurs, because, like society, the economic location in the last two centuries has, of course, changed considerably, and we now take account of these developments. Instead of having to raise large amounts of money, family members who take over the parental holding will in future be able to pay out their shares to those entitled to the duty or to spend up to five years, in some exceptional cases even up to ten years. In addition, the charges of donations on the part of the obligation will continue to be unlimited. This makes a transfer noticeably easier and offers the necessary legal certainty to the purchasers in particular. This draft law creates the right framework conditions to support the continuation of businesses and thus ensure important jobs. I think, especially in view of the fact that we have a lot of farms that are family-owned in centuries of tradition, this is a very important measure in order to be able to take over the farms accordingly. I think that the law of inheritance is new a very important milestone and we have finally modernised and innovationd this law, which has existed for 200 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e21111	Next word reported: Mr Mag. Schrangl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e21132	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Of course, you can reword antique formulations that were written into the law over 200 years ago, but why does it need this haste? The 200-year celebration of the ABGB was over three years ago, one could have taken time to create a big throw now. The time pressure shown here destroys exactly this great litter. Especially in the case of the new linguistic arrangements, good intentions are not always well done. The EU Heritage Regulation, which was adopted on 17 November. A so-called European certificate of succession enters into force on August. The inheritance novels we decide here today, which you decide to do today, remove the word “debt” from the law. Everyone may see that the work has not been very sustainable. Perhaps a small legal Bonmot – I hope to be able to explain it half-understandablely –: Before homecoming, i.e. if an inheritance falls to the state because no heirs can be found or no There are heirs, there is the so-called extraordinary inheritance right of the legatees, now legitimizers. In other words, a tester sat down and considered: How do I manage my inheritance? What do I want? He didn't make an inheritance, maybe because he didn't know how it was, but he definitely thought about which persons to get something from him. But he did not mention his companions, whom he may have or did not have at the time. – I think in Austria the possibility of a will is known, and anyone who wants it will use his partner as an heir. That we as legislators are almost always spreading the hammock for things that may not have been wanted, that is, I think, exaggerating. One can calmly acknowledge to people that they find out for themselves which one of them is to inherit and who is not. But, of course, in this draft law, there are some positive points to be made. We liberals, who are of course always for the reduction of court fees, note positively the reduction of court fees from € 71 to €69 and a moderate increase in value limits for small leavers. In contrast to criminal law, it is quite right to increase moderate by € 1,000. Maybe you should. This is also a moderate increase in criminal law and is not immediately allowed to explode the limits of value. Mr. Federal Minister! Many university professors have shown in a survey that took place two weeks ago in this law uncertainty and malaise. The only right way for us is therefore: This reform is not going through bending and breaking, but it will review, introduce criticisms and decide unanimously here in autumn. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e21180	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Mulder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e21202	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The present draft is a relatively far-reaching reform of this 200-year-old legislative text. In concrete terms, this is done by modernising the language, which, I believe, is very necessary and important, and by improving the clarity of the legal order, since the provisions are largely from 1811; so, too, social development on inheritance issues has been taken into account, the continuous development of law has been particularly observed and the current case law has been incorporated into this draft. The objective of test freedom is strongly anchored. Various measures are intended to strengthen the freedom of the last person to determine his leave. The arrangement of compulsory part-funding and compulsory part-sharing as well as the reasons for entry and affordability will be made possible or extended in a moderate manner. These are very, very desirable reforms that take into account the reality of life of people. Consideration is given to the increased life expectancy of people, to the reduction of the importance of heritage as material protection, and to the change of social values, for example, by the fact that homosexuality can no longer be used as a basis for entry, which is not the case. A completely new aspect is taking care of the distribution of the heritage. I personally believe that this aspect is not entirely unproblematic. In Austria, about 320 000 people are cared for by at least one family at home, around three quarters – you can read that in the care report – of the caring family are female, and with the new inheritance law, I think, this distribution of roles is even more enhanced by taking care of care. Taking into account the care performed in the leave process – which is also to be read in the explanations – is of course to be understood in addition to monetary recognition as an expression of the appreciation for the very sacrifice and extensive care of the family. In fact, however, I consider this mixture between inheritance matters and employment matters to be not unproblemable, because a new care package has entered into force this year, which also shows very precisely the overall social responsibility for people in need of care. The hereditary aspects create a new civil law sphere, which is not yet based on a permanent Judicatur. The restrictions on the right to inheritance – in the last three years, close relatives – seem to be very useful, but the view of the related relationship must not always cover itself, and I am afraid that there are some of them. There are also internal family disputes. The aim should be to eliminate family conflicts by clarifying the rules. Overall, however, this is a very modern and positive law, and I hope that this modern law will also be proven in its overall view until its evaluation in 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e21250	Next speaker: Mrs Dr. Nachbaur. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e21271	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! Dear tax payers and guests at the gallery! I very much welcome the innovations to inheritance law, in particular I like the fact that heirs of companies are to be protected from having to destroy the company in order to pay for it. In the sense of the economic location, it is a truly wise solution that you can take up to five years for the part of duty. However, as a problem in this regard, I see that the so-called legal default interest of 4 percent is due for this. These are the interest rates according to the ABGB. The ABGB is the second oldest private law codification in the world, and the ABGB, as we know, is over 200 years old, so it is long over time to adapt the topic of interest to today's times. I therefore propose that a text should be inserted at all times in all the laws providing for interest rates, which will be applied to a variable indicator in the interest rate. The interest rate sometimes changes blatantly – as we know, we even now have negative interest rates – so the basis should always be the euibor, plus or minus, just an up or down payment. I am therefore now submitting the following request concerning inheritance law: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e21324	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e21378	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e21399	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Minister! The fact that the reform is overdue has already been said that the linguistic revision was time, too. If terms such as ‘fidea’, ‘fidea’, ‘fidea’, ‘fidea’, ‘fidea’, ‘fidea’, Commissioner substitution, perhaps that may be the heart of the lawyer, but the average citizen is in front of a mystery when he reads such terms. On some points I would have liked the reform to continue, and I would like to point this out in an example: the life-mates. The partners today are a social reality, but in our opinion they are still very poor in the law of inheritance. Although you have taken a first step, Minister, and are approaching the right of inheritance, so to speak, but you must honestly say – and I believe you will not contradict me – that: Even according to your concept, a companion will not inherit until he or the deceased has virtually no family. This may be a tragic individual gift, but it is very rare to have no children, no parents, no siblings, no cousins, no cousins. That is, what you introduce, this life-mate/life-mate inheritance right is very theoretical. It's clear – you have to be precise –: Someone does not deliberately marry, that is, equality between the partner of life or the partner of life with the spouses cannot be the goal, because we must also leave this freedom of choice to the individual. However, it would have made sense to grant in a certain segment a legal right of inheritance for life-mates, namely, in the area of general objects of use such as household goods, cars, computers, things to be used together, often together. Often, then, the case occurs suddenly, that it is either not clear to whom it belongs, or that who has passed away, has acquired things and has then suddenly been withdrawn. I already know that you at least allow the possibility to use these items for another year. But that is too little for us, because a step would have been more sensible. The second point, which is important to me, is the whole subject of care and consideration in the case of inheritance. That's what we think we need to be careful. It's right: If someone makes a contribution, it is quite fair that one might take this into account in the division of the heritage. What must not happen, however, is that politics believes that it can thus delegate the entire care topic to the private. It is still the responsibility of politics to provide a functioning care system – for a variety of reasons: on the one hand, because many cannot afford this private care at all. All of us sitting here have a professional effort that would probably not allow us to take over a care case that is very time-consuming. That means that this is not a solution. Secondly, one must be careful not to delegate this to the family and that there are mostly women in the care. Thirdly, this will be exciting, and we will observe it closely: the increased risk of disputes in the course of the leave process due to these care services. We all know such cases: Was well - maintained? How much was cared for? Who's taken care of? Why Was Care for? This is, of course, an endless pool of possible disputes. Summa summarum: We will vote in favour of the new law, we also believe that it is quite legitimate for care services to be paid, but it must by no means lead to policy taking on responsibility. A functioning care system, functioning care facilities are absolutely necessary and irreplaceable. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e21450	The next speaker was Mr Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e21471	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! In principle: I think we could have had a longer discussion on the subject of inheritance law, and I believe that this has gone too quickly and we should have faced the debate in particular, which is a right of inheritance in the 21st century. ==References====External links== I believe that what we see as modern is a right of inheritance, and that is particularly the right of duty. We reduce the circle of those entitled to the duty, we create opportunities by extending the grounds for entry, we also extend the possibilities for reducing the duty part. What we do not do, and I think this is very bad, is to introduce the 10-year period as far as accounting for the part of the duty is concerned. On the one hand, it would have been a question of legal certainty to introduce this deadline, and on the other hand, in line with the international trend towards doing so. But above all, from my point of view, this is a fundamental question, which is what this part of the duty should be. If we were to deal more restrictively with the part of the duty – as in the government's proposal on and on its own – then this would have been a useful time limit, because then exactly those gifts that have been made in recent years would be counted and not all the gifts that have been made throughout life. It is precisely this that we have not conducted the debate, which is to be the part of the duty, and I believe that we should have led it. I also believe that it would have been time to allow the deceased more private autonomy, that he has more freedom in this regard, because we also know that this idea of the part of duty dates back to 1811, when the circumstances were quite different, the life expectancy was much lower, so that it was also necessary to give minor children of young dead parents a corresponding care. This is now regulated, among other things, by maintenance claims. I think we should have had this discussion, and then we would not have the problem of supporting the part of the duty. In principle, it is good that we have that, I think it is right, but I believe, especially when it comes to late interest rates, that interest rates will probably be too high and that those companies that will benefit from this part of the obligation – those who are not economically well – will have a problem with the corresponding interest burden a few years later. Overall, I think we could have gone further as far as the duty is concerned. There are many experts who have already made proposals towards the complete abolition, the international trend is also going in this direction, the government template is also going in this direction. I think we should have discussed it more. Another word to the caring family. I also believe that there is an incredible tension. I think it is right that they have an inheritance claim, but I think you always have to be careful that it does not matter that it is almost taken for granted that family members, in particular women, care, according to the motto: Well, they get something out of the inheritance afterwards, and that's why the care is quite natural! All in all – I have already said it in committee –: I would have liked a further reform, but it is going in the right direction, and that is why we will agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e21519	Mr Brandstetter spoke as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e21541	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Dear visitors to the gallery! In fact, I would just like to stress some of the principles of this reform of inheritance law once again, before, of course, I also address some of the points that have come to be made in detail here. The criticism that has now come and which we have discussed and debated in detail in the Committee on Justice, in fact, shows me that we seem to have met the golden middle with this draft: Some he goes too far, some he goes too little. The fact is – and it's important to me to hold on to that –: It has been high time for a modernisation of inheritance law. It is, as has already been said, more than 200 years old, and with this reform we simply want to adapt the right of inheritance according to today's social conditions. Above all, it is about presenting, in part, very complicated provisions, which are antiquated and anachronistic, legible, tangible and, above all, comprehensible – and this has certainly been achieved in a high degree with this draft. This reform project, which I would like to expressly support, was discussed in detail and in depth with the most important experts in inheritance law and, after intensive working group meetings, was revised accordingly by the authorities of my home on the basis of these discussions, including external expertise. Finally, the whole of this draft, which has become very extensive, has resulted in eight main features of the ABGB, and more than 300 paragraphs have been revised. It is not at all possible for me to deal with everything in detail now, but in terms of content, the change in the right to share is essential. The possibility of supporting part-compulsory claims and the introduction of appropriate payment reliefs in favour of the heirs is already something very essential. We have created an important way to prevent family businesses from being destroyed by the transition to the next generation; all too often this has happened, and we want to prevent that. In the future, the obligation may be incurred by the deceased or at the request of the heir in charge for a period of five years or also paid in instalments; in special cases, under judicial control, a maximum period of ten years is possible. Within this framework, the Court of First Instance will have to consider the interests of the heir and that of the person entitled to the duty. This is precisely cases where the lack of sufficient other assets would have to sell the housing in the estate which is in the estate which serves him to satisfy his own housing needs, or a company which represents his economic basis of life. This should be prevented, and it will succeed. The right to share the duty shall be retained in itself. Of course, it is important to take into account the interests of those entitled to the duty, and it will be the case of the Court of First Instance that: These interests shall also be exercised accordingly. I am convinced that there will be a balance of interests in the interests of the possibility of continuation of economic units. Another issue that I would like to address briefly is also a personal concern, namely the care services already mentioned to the deceased, which should be taken into account: Yes, we were careful, we wanted to know this limited to relatives who provide care, but in these cases it is undoubtedly justified to take this into account in their inheritance. That is the crucial point. If someone who is not related provides care, then he will normally always do so at all costs, so I don't really see a problem; because we want to take care of relatives who provide care services into account on our own, no one goes out empty when he has provided care services. We have created something completely new for this, namely a legal care legacy, which ensures that care services are to be taken into account by relatives in inheritance law. As part of the leave process, the notary as a court commissioner must then try to reach agreement among the heirs on the care done in the last three years before the death of the deceased. I am also optimistic that this will succeed because it has to be done on its own. In order to have a basis for the level of care capacity, the Commissioner for the Court of Justice will be able to obtain appropriate documents on the cover of the care allowance and the actual cost of care. In this way, we can ensure that the issue of care and the right to pay within the relationship within the framework of the leave process is addressed by its own initiative, and I assume that in many cases a rapid agreement can be reached on this subject using judicial or notary authority. I believe that, contrary to the fears expressed, this point is an element of the new regulation, which can even counteract and prevent disputes – including legal disputes – in this area. I think that's very central. The topic of care is, of course, one that is of central importance. If care is now provided within the family, this should also be taken into account in the inheritance law. As far as the criticism of detail, which has been presented today, is concerned, I would like to deal with it as far as I really want to say that I am able to understand this criticism of detail, which has been mentioned here and has come. We have debated this for a very long time in the Committee on Justice, Mr Stefan. Finally, we have come to the conviction – and this was ultimately the majority view – that it would not justify this criticism of detail to make further changes here. Of course, one can interpret a bill and even a law constructively, one can try to read what is really constructively meant by it. Or, of course, one can also try to find any conceptual inaccuracies and hang on to them any concerns. But one thing I would like to say, without wanting to devalue this detail critique now, but you can do it first – and it reminded me – and then look for the split hair in the soup, and there you will find it. I believe that the very profession of the notaries is well-known for being very cautious in the role of the Commissioner for Justice in leave proceedings and It is constructively active, and I am convinced that what we want to change here will also work very well in practice. However, I insist that we need this reform. This reform was urgently needed in all its understanding of the serenity and predominance which characterizes the profession of the notaries. We couldn't, I think, and should not have been able to leave more time, because the work was, I believe, as it is now, really finished. I think, if one still takes into account that the legal inheritance rights that we have also installed for the partner of life and the partner of life do not change anything about the fact that, of course, for the sake of God's sake, every deceased has his right to use everyone as an heir to whom he wants to use – and that is, anyway, all other things, except for those entitled to the duty – then one can say one thing: It has really succeeded in creating a balanced design. I also owe this draft to the excellent staff in the house – and I do not want to mention that – Mr. Dr. Georg Kathrein is in concrete terms. But I would also like to make it clear, even if it is unusual, that there are two employees in my area who have worked very significantly on it, that is, Mr Mag. Michael Somlyay and Mrs. Mag. Elisabeth Zimmerer. Thanks to you, we are really allowed to present you with an excellent design. I think that this draft deserves broad support here too. My God, a law that will last 200 years, which, I believe, will no longer exist, that is clear. Our time has become much too fast for this. But what you can decide today, ladies and gentlemen, is something really good. You have the chance to pass a good law. Use it! – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e21623	Next, Mrs. Dr. Karl will speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e21644	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The General Civil Code, as mentioned many times today, dates back to 1811. Therefore, in 2011 we were able to have its 200. Birthday celebration and decided at that time that the ABGB should be reformed in stages. The first step in this reform was the reform of family law. And today there is a reform of inheritance law. This reform of inheritance law is primarily a modernisation, with this modernisation not intended for modernising, but for the changes to be made only where they are really necessary. That is to say, on the one hand, it is a question of making these legal provisions more understandable. On the other hand, it is also about responding to social developments that today suggest quite different solutions to inheritance issues. Finally, it is also a question of codifying the ruling case law and thus ensuring legal certainty. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, my previous speakers have repeatedly addressed the consideration of the care provided by close relatives of the deceased and have been very controversially discussed. I very much welcome this innovation, but I also welcome Mr Steinhauser, who has said that it is, of course, the responsibility of policy to continue providing a functioning care system. And it is not the intention of this reform of inheritance law to take politics out of responsibility either. But I think it is important to provide a fair bill for caring close relatives here and, above all, to give them appreciation. Furthermore, we should also take into account that most caregivers are very likely to want to be cared for at home, although I know of course that this is not possible in all cases. It has also been pointed out several times that the part of the obligation is supported, particularly in connection with family businesses. I can underline everything that has been said. It has also been pointed out that in future there will be an extraordinary right of inheritance and legal legacy for the benefit of life-mates. In this regard, it was very interesting to listen to my previous speakers. For example, Mr Stefan said that this arrangement with regard to life-mates goes too far, while Mr Steinhauser said that he did not go far enough. This shows me that it seems to be a good compromise in the middle. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinhauser.]] Whether you see this as the first step or too far-reaching a step – I think it is a very good compromise and has been very successful. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, also on the grounds of entry. These are now to be extended in measure. Just to show you that these are real regulations from 1811, I also point to an intrusion that should be avoided, namely the intrusion of the “persistent leadership of a way of life contrary to public morality”. So you see, ladies and gentlemen, it was high time to make a reform here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e21708	Next, Mr. Dr. Doorer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e21729	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! More than 200 years General Civil Code also means more than 200 years of Austrian inheritance law. The right of inheritance, as we know, has come into the years. But social development has changed family relations and thus also relations with the inheritance. With the new inheritance law, however, we face these current challenges. It is new in inheritance law that the legal inheritance right of spouses and registered partners is strengthened. It is in the future that the parents of the deceased, if he had no children, no longer have a claim for part of the duty. In these cases, the legal inheritance law is clearly with the spouse or the partner. However, we also strengthen the partners in inheritance law. Living companions are to be granted an extraordinary right of inheritance under certain conditions. I very much welcome this, because in the past there has always been great injustice in inheriting. I would like to point out that there are 700 000 living companions in Austria, who are now being upgraded in principle. In the SPÖ's election programme, Project No. 35, this is a big concern for us. Here. At least one first step is taken in the right direction. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now on the topic of inheritance and care by family members, i.e. caring within the family. Our reform of inheritance law now takes into account those people who care about the 320 000 people who are being cared for at home in Austria. Three-quarters of the caregivers are women. This extraordinary care is often a very sacrificing, time-intensive as well as very valuable human work in practice. It is now said to enter the inheritance right through a care legacy. Very often they are daughters-in-law, but also other close relatives. A care legacy occurs if care was taken at least in the last three years, with an average of more than 20 hours a month spent for this care. Mostly it's a lot, a lot more hours. As far as the objections to the fact that private care within the family cannot replace the responsibility of politics are concerned, I am here with you. Let's take a look at Vienna! As a Vienna MP, I can say that care homes are constantly being opened. Vienna shows a very, very good way to deal responsibly with the care of those in need in a large city. In conclusion: All in all, the right of inheritance becomes life-like, ultimately fairer and more modern. ==References====External links== ==References== Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e21783	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 718 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Nachbaur, ladies and gentlemen, on 'Industrial transfers will become easier? – not without market-compliant interest rate of the compulsory part-funding!’ I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[16:12:12]] 10. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (689 d.e._Other Organiser Federal Law, with which the Criminal Code, the Addiction Law, the Criminal Procedure Order 1975, the Stock Act, the Law of 6. March 1906 on limited liability companies, the Act on the Statute of the European Communities Company, the cooperative law, the ORF law, the Privatstiftungsgesetz, the Insurance Supervisory Act 2016 and the Divisional Act (Strafrechtsammlungsgesetz 2015), the Amendment No 1110/A by Mr Mag. Michaela Steinacker, Dr. Johannes Jarolim, Dr. Georg Vetter, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Criminal Code, the Stock Code and the Law on limited liability companies, the Question 969/A(E) by Mrs Ulrike Unigerstorfer, Members of the European Parliament, on the increase in the criminal record of animal torture: Appeal concerning ‘Condemning rape. A no must be enough. Improving criminal law in Austria”, presented by the Deputies Mag. Gisela Worm(42/PET), the Citizens' Initiative 53/BI on "Exclusion of Cannabis from the Austrian Drugs Act" and on the Citizens' Initiative 63/BI on “More Rights for Animals!” (728 d.b.) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report by the Committee on Justice, Public Health and Consumer Protection on Amendment No 225/A by Mr Mag. Harald Stefan, colleagues in a federal law with which the Federal Law on the Actions Threatened by Judicial Penalty (Strafgesetzbuch – StGBl), BGBl. No. 60/1974, amended (729, e.g.) 12. Point Report by the Committee on Justice, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 244/A by Mr Mag. Alev Korun, Dr. Nikolaus Scherak, colleagues concerning a federal law, with which the Federal Law of 23 January 1989 was adopted. January 1974 on actions threatened with judicial punishment, BGBl No. 60/1974, as last amended by BGBl. I No. 134/2013, amended (730 d.a.) 13. Point Report by the Committee on Justice, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 393/A by Mr Mag. Albert Steinhauser, colleagues in the Federal Law amending the Criminal Code (731, B.C.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e21945	We come to points 10 to 13 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. First, Mr Mag. Mag. Stefan speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e21972	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The reform of criminal law is a major issue. The principle that has been used here is to achieve a better balance between the property offences and the crimes against body and life, which we have also supported. This has also been implemented here. So that's positive. There are also a few other positive approaches that we very much want to appreciate. An example is: We called on years ago to include the offence of forced marriage in the criminal code. At that time we were partly ridiculed, it was meant that this would be completely absurd and non-worldly. Especially from the SPÖ, I can remember, was so argued. It is a little satisfaction for us that this is now being implemented and it has been recognized that this is a very good problem; but I believe that the question of radical Islamism has arrived so much in reality that one has realized that one has to put countermeasures here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We believe that a real problem is the question of value limits. We have said that we want to change the weighting and that is why this proposal for a law has massively raised the limits of value. We believe that this is too far. The first proposal raised the value limits from € 5 000 to € 500 000; now, according to the first criticism, € 300 000. This increase is clearly too far away from us. There is also massive criticism on the part of the judiciary – not just polemics, but particularly the prosecutor’s office – but also other areas of society have found that even these €300 000 are very large. This meant that some of the disversions would be possible up to a damage of €300 000. In our view, this is not proportionate. I therefore also propose an amendment to the Criminal Code, which has been distributed. So as much as I know, I don't have to do it any more, that would lead too far. This amendment is essentially also about changing this increase in value limits, from €300 000 to €70 000, as was demanded by the Linz Public Prosecutor's Office, for example – a demand that we can only join. Another point we criticise is the following: So far, there has been so-called industrialism in the law, i.e. if a perpetrator has committed an act in order to secure himself continuous revenue, it has been fined. This could also lead a judge to arrest someone. This is a very important point, especially for criminal tourism: Once you catch a culprit and then have to let him go again, because there's no corresponding threat of punishment, he's gone and you never get hold of him. This has been changed in the first proposal for ‘worker’ action. It was so restrictive, however, that it would have been totally impossible to arrest a perpetrator, because then one would have had to prove to him that he had already committed two such acts within a year, and the like. Now you've taken a little step back, but we're not far enough. We would be in favour of the old regulation, so that there is the possibility of continuous revenue being harvested. Only on the verge mentioned: It is now in the legislative text that there is a workable approach if this is to ensure a “continuous income”, which is to be an average of €400 per month. – I mean, that’s actually a mistake, because “income” is a term from tax law. I don't think what a criminal does when he steals something should really be an income. I think "incomes" are meant. Although I have already mentioned this in the Committee, I still read ‘income’. Maybe you can at least change that. Weaknesses in the drug law are also something we don't like. This is what we think is a wrong social policy approach, because if you know, What problems of addiction, starting with alcohol, bring into society, then you will not open it even further and increase the problem. What we lack is a few points in the law such as absolute ban on sexual offenders. Mr Darmann will do something about this. What was also a concern to me and was not implemented is to take the parental alienation syndrome, where children are psychologically damaged, into criminal law because they now know how problematic it is. If someone deliberately withdraws the children from their parents, that should also be found in criminal law. We would also like to see partial penalties made much more flexible. There is a very close corset of how partial punishments can be forgiven, and we would have wished that this would continue. We are also concerned to make possible exclusively conditional fines. There are, therefore, a number of points which we are missing or which, in our opinion, are wrongly regulated. That is why we are not involved in this, but we hope that in the next few years there may still be the possibility of improving it due to evaluations.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e22050	The amendment was distributed to all Members; it was also explained in the key points. This means that he is properly introduced and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e22360	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Steinacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e22381	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Appreciate fellow citizens! Ensuring freedom of movement for the development of human personality is a great legal task. – This was said by Josef Klaus, in whose reign 40 years ago the first work on reforming the Criminal Code fell. Just as current as at that time, this sentence is still today, because in the end, the criminal law distributes liberties and protects our own development. We have been working with criminal law experts from the Group who worked in the Ministry of Justice over the past two years. Last year in autumn we have receive a report with proposals on where criminal law is in need of reform everywhere and no longer at the level of time. Based on these opinions plus numerous discussions with citizens and experts and two hearings in the judicial committee, we were able to draw this expertise from the experts of the Federal Ministry of Justice, the legalists and from the experiences of our Federal Minister in one of my very successful novels. With caution and fingertips, this government template has been created. And at this point a warm thanks to all those involved, because every contribution, including from all of you in the discussions of the expert hearings and in the judicial committee, was of great importance to me. Especially in criminal law, we have been observing for some time now that the provisions do not go along with the changed living conditions, but are behind them. Crime always finds new forms of appearance, and also values of society are sometimes new to criminal law. Therefore, this criminal law needed a facelifting. Finding a balance between the criminal framework for property offences and crimes against people's bodies and lives is the first and most important objective of this reform. New criminal offences such as cybermobbing and skimming, the espionage of credit cards, have been developed and the law has been modernized in language. At the same time, however, it is also about the intensification of acts that have been criticised as too imprecise, such as injury or economic infidelity. On the issue of economic infidelity, I would like to say quite clearly that the non-representability of the abuse of power and the protection of the property of the owners as a protection purpose of the infidelity action must also be taken more into account by the case law in the future. It was no longer necessary for me to comment explicitly on the agreement of the economically entitled person, even after the discussion, since all the relevant rules assume that what the Authority allows is in principle unpunished. And with this recast of economic infidelity, a work without fear will be possible in Austria for entrepreneurs and managers in the various areas. This strengthens our economic location and secures numerous jobs. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the increased protection of physical integrity is particularly important to me in relation to sexual offences, which I would like to address briefly as a woman. We have the violation of sexual self-determination. In the future, it will also be punishable if a victim of sexual violence is in a state of fear, fear of being in a rigid state, and can no longer be harmed physically. For me, it is a very important point when it is made quite clear: I don't agree! This crime is classified between sexual harassment and sexual harassment and is subject to a criminal threat of up to two years. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that is a very important sign and, of course, a preventive measure for all those who had to experience sexual assaults. The situation of sexual harassment has been much debated in recent months and I believe that it has been properly redesigned. In the meantime, I can also give my approval to this crime situation, because it is only possible to punish more intense and deplorable sexual harassment by rewording it after review. Ladies and gentlemen, even though I would have been, in principle, more likely to have been, for a system of administrative penalties, I believe that I am in this form. It will also make it possible to distinguish between them. Ladies and gentlemen, I expressly welcome the 2015 criminal law reform. It reorganises those spaces addressed by Josef Klaus and sanctions intervention into freedom as Ultima Ratio. It is a balanced and thoughtful reform. Ladies and gentlemen, dear citizens, you can now trust that we have a modern criminal law at the level of time. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e22456	Next, Mr Magistrate. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e22478	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Justice Minister! They are now in office for about one and a half years, and both the inheritance reform and the criminal code reform allow a first insight into how justice ministers Brandstetter can be estimated. I value Justice Minister Brandstetter for a certain quality, because he is very open in the problem analysis, recognises and attacks problems. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Lopatka: Not even applause with the greens!]] And then there is proposals – that's the second part: If that is the case, then the Minister of Justice is rowing back, and I regret it. This can also be done by means of this criminal code reform at some key points. I would like you to be more courageous in the future that you – and we will talk later about one point on which this becomes even more apparent, namely the right of guidance – if you recognize problems, then also persist to solve these problems and then to overcome the concerns that you seem to be presenting to you in argumentative terms. But back to the criminal code reform. What were the goals and what has been achieved? The first major objective was to redefine the proportionality of the criminal frameworks in the Criminal Code. As to whether this was successful, one can discuss – it is always difficult, of course – but one example: Someone threatens another without significant violence and robs a pack of cigarettes or 30 € in the park; the penalty framework is five years in prison. If someone commits an infidelity with a damage of €200, then there are three years in prison. – I mean, that doesn't fit proportionality yet. Also in the criminal framework: Injury and proportionality. A first approach by Justice Minister Brandstetter was to reduce the criminal framework. Then criticism came, the criminal framework went up again. The same is true of property offences: first, down the criminal framework; then there came criticism: Punishment frame up again. However, a reform of the Criminal Code must follow a criminal policy objective, have a manuscript and cannot even say: Now let's lower it, and then: Let's put it back on! That's not always the golden middle. Especially with large novels – and that was Their claim – there is a political objective, and it is not variable, but one pursues it, provided it is a criminal policy objective, until the end. Or we will come to the issue of industrialism. What was the problem? – The Minister has carefully analysed: It is about the fact that minor acts are often punished more severely. We agreed. Then he turned to the framework conditions and disincentived the industrialism. That was a good approach. But what happened? – The concerns and critics have come, and already the framework conditions have changed again, and suddenly the commercialism was again more intense. This popularity – although the problem analysis is good, then when the resistance comes, everything is different again – is unfortunate. On the third point, I should like to say: In this respect too, Mr. Justice Minister Brandstetter has recognized where the problem lies, namely that we are meeting a large number of people and also an increased increase in hatred-postings et cetera through the Internet. The reform, however, has gone completely beyond this again, because While they have reduced the group of persons who have to achieve such a hatred, hate posting, that was not the problem. On the Internet, the size of the person group of 100, 200, 300, 400 people is quickly reached. The problem was quite another: The problem was that the intention of hatred, i.e. the degradation of human dignity, was difficult to reach. What did you do? – Because You reduced the group of persons and did not want to take the main tables into view, you have tightened your resolve by introducing the intention. In the past, it was enough to think it was possible to downgrade the human dignity with an insulting post, now it has to happen. You have to do it deliberately. Talk to all those responsible for prosecution! The purpose was already a problem, and you put another on it and say: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. This will result in you doing the problem analysis correctly, but your goal will be missing and in fact may have aggravated those criminal paragraphs. Infidelity of infidelity. This is a particularly interesting example. The working group has made a very clear recommendation. Infidelity is not to be changed, the current criminal provisions are sufficient. It literally means: ‘The... working group, which the Minister of Justice has commissioned, ‘recommends the current provision.’ The Minister of Justice held on to it at a first point, and then something interesting happened. Then, what is rather unusual, came parallel an initiative proposal from the members of the government, and suddenly everything was different. I think that's a bit strange. In the background, the squats are whistling from the roof, that the Lord Meinl in particular is afraid that he could come into sight about the infidelity. Now the abatement was again slightly depleted. – It is difficult to follow this. So the abatement was again a little disillusioned with the reasoning that it should not be a Lex Meinl. I am going to look at exactly where this novelle leads, whether this process of mining is actually being stopped or carried on, or whether the revision has actually helped the Lord Meinl. It will be on every occasion: “Acceptance legislation!” cried out, but here, in the infidelity of unfaithfulness, an event law par excellence, one silences and pulls it out. Next point, land peace break – often discussed –: This is about the problem of criminal offences in the context of football games and demonstrations. It is clear that those who commit crimes come to the sight of criminal law. The only problem is that other people who have not committed the crimes themselves will also come into sight. The risk of abuse is high. The Minister of Justice has also recognized this, alone, but the compensation will not change in the event that the local group of persons will come into sight, so to speak, and will then be constructed very quickly in real terms, that they wanted to participate in these actions. The last point is because it's important to me: sexual punishment law. Very good is the introduction of the violation of sexual self-determination. As a result – and we will still evaluate this – it makes sense and targeting what is discussed under “po-gross” is sexual harassment. The debate on the whole was, of course, a low point, because the sexual harassment was already punishable, and the case law only excluded the buttocks. That was relatively arbitrary, and having a criminal code where the use of expressions such as donkey, cunt and idiot is punishable, but the grip of a woman's skirt on the buttock is not punishable is actually not acceptable. This has been baffled, and it has been done as if it were a cavalier's crime. The Neo-ÖVP member, Franz, made a contribution by even speaking the word to the po-gross. I am curious about whether he is voting against today, because the Minister is doing exactly what he has fought – by the way, I think that is very positive – or whether he is quickly slipping out again somewhere so as not to violate the new party line. That's what we're going to do. At least that was a low point in the debate. I am glad that you presented us with a proposal, so to speak. But there is also waver humility: First, po-grapples are punishable. Then, protest and resistance from people like Mr. Franz – a low point of reaction – come back to you, rowing you back: punishment free. Then there is resistance from the other side, and it comes back into the criminal code. All in all: It's not all bad with the reform, but it's not enough for us. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e22535	Next item is the report by Mr Jarolim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e22557	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! The conclusion was now a little more conciliatory, Mr Commissioner, but I believe that we are adopting a law here, which has not only been discussed for a long time, but is actually a good as well as very broad result. It concerns a large part of the criminal code, which has been revised here. I also believe that we have achieved many of the objectives. Of course, you can always want more and more, and of course you would have wanted more in one case or another, only what seems to one as much, appears to the other as little. In this respect, it is a compromise that has also focused on the fact that all parties actually agree – which unfortunately has not been successful. I am sorry because, in fact, we are trying traditionally to do so in terms of criminal law, which affects the people to a special extent. achieve real unity – but perhaps it still succeeds. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz]] I don't think so, but you have to be able to live with it. One of the very essential points was to see that criminal law is being brought to the present state of affairs, that one looks at what offences are currently being evaluated as if by the criminal framework, and that one adapts there. We have seen that in attacks, attacks on body and life on the one hand, and property crimes, on the other hand, were very unevenly weighted, judged. Therefore, it was one of the main concerns to focus more on preventing attacks against body and life, from violence in the most diverse areas of life, in the family, in the general area, by burglary, through violence, to robbery. On the other hand, in the case of the property offences, where a completely exaggerated Judicatur had to be found, for example, in the case of commerciality, where one has landed in detention with a stolen toothbrush and a package of paper handkerchiefs, and then has partly defined long-term penalties, which is simply covered, changes have been made. Therefore, there are good, clear rules here where the legislator articulates and says, so in future in such cases it will be decided. What is also important is that judges, the case law of course, always receive a variety of offers, as can be said in the individual case, since we often discuss here and the point of view that it could change anything if we put up the penalties, but that is not the case in reality. In the meantime, there is support for this in the various political groups. What is important and what counts is the “risk” – under quotation marks – that the perpetrators are taken relatively quickly and that there is a condemnation relatively quickly. This is the most efficient way of dealing with crimes. It is therefore also important that we sharpen these instruments. We are simply in one area or another with the executive, but also with the prosecutors – this is an appeal to you, Minister of Justice – that we have massive under-retirements there. There it is to be assumed, because the consciousness is very simple: I am caught!, far more dissuasive than the circumstance, the dimension of punishment is such or so, because perpetrators do not really look at what is actually the dimension of punishment, and then make their decision. – So these essential points need to be taken into account in the future. We have collected tax provisions, for example money acquired by criminals, mainly by organizations, and should be used to invest in human resources, to strengthen public prosecutors, to strengthen police institutions and cetera. So, I think, in many areas it has succeeded in addressing daily events. I find the state of peace to be very well regulated in itself. We have now ensured that it will no longer come to such strange behaviour in the judicial system, where, with the breaking of peace, a dead law will suddenly be discovered in itself. There are considerable restrictions. A person who participates in a demonstration or in fights at football games will no longer become a peace-breaker after the crime, but very well if he commits this crime because of body- Infringement or whatever. I can't understand the argument at all. I also believe that if the trial, which last ended with a judgment, has ended, with a confirmation, next year, i.e. after the 1. January 2016, to decide, the result would certainly be different. Cybermobbing and certainly infidelity are also current topics. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not think it is a question of party political membership: An economic location lives essentially on the fact that companies can make decisions that also concern a critical area where one is not quite sure: Am I right? Do I take a risk, yes or no? – And if it is so that these decisions are always accompanied by the almost threat that one could also act unfaithfully – and this has been the case with more and more companies – then it is useful to clarify what unfaithfulness is and what is not unfaithful. This is not only explicitly regulated in the Criminal Code, but also in public and in the GmbH law, and I assume that we are of course also more competitive, more competitive, but also more clear: What can I and what can't I do? In total, I therefore believe that this is a good draft, and I still hope for maximum approval. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e22657	The next item is Mrs Dr. Nachbaur's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e22678	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! Dear taxpayers! I'm taking a stand on the unfaithful paragraph. Two spectacular OGH decisions on unfaithful paragraphs, namely in the case of Styrian Spirit and in the case of Libro, have drawn the attention of the media to a new follow-up species, namely the species of executives and bank directors. As always, in a crisis one is looking for culprits, and in the great financial and economic crisis these culprits were quickly found, namely, the evil managers and the bad bankers – which is also right in that the high-finance, which is ensnared by world politics, with their credit default swaps and their asset-backed securities, was indeed both the cause and profiter of the global financial and economic crisis. In the global financial policy, there is indeed an urgent need to act in order to prevent these toxic junk papers in the future, but since the policy is unfortunately debt addicts, such instruments continue to be used with joy, in particular by the ECB, and as a result, the debt spiral continues and continues. The next crash is determined, and it would be long overdue to create the right here and to implement, apply existing law, all in the European Union. – But let me come back to the unfaithful paragraph. What happened with regard to the unfaithful paragraph was a gross mistake. In these two cases, the Supreme Court has applied the infidelity paragraphs and made difficult decisions for the Austrian economic location. In a completely extravagant manner with the criminal code against leaders whose management decisions follow up. It seems that trying to be bad, but nothing but being an entrepreneurial failure, is simply a huge problem for the economic location. In the cases of Styrian Spirit and Libro, the OGH has criminalised corporate misconceptions and has pursued behavior under the criminal code, which, in fact, only belong to civil law. Entrepreneurial thinking and action are now becoming more difficult, since not only do the persons acting have to deal with all the other business issues, but also with the criminal code. This is really unfortunate, because our economic location already loses quality in every ranking due to too high tax burden, too much red tape, too many officers, too few professionals, too little venture capital – and now also because of too little legal certainty. Especially legal certainty is the most important thing at all. There is no peace without justice, there is no democracy, there is no law and no legal certainty, nor can there be a functioning private economy. The right in itself is a fundamental right. In Austria, our ancestors fought this; that is actually the legacy of the bourgeois revolution of 1848. We should respect the law, and above all, the economic location needs legal certainty. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] It cannot be used and interpreted suddenly for very different scenarios, which have been created for certain offences. With this Judicature, you are in the criminal faster than you can see, and is it really the case of the supreme judge to make politics? In the wake of the economy after these two judgments, the government has been awakened and has fully recognized that it is high time to renovate the unfaithful paragraphs. But I am not happy with the result, because it is not a real reform. Apparently, red and black could not agree, and as often as each side has probably tried only to prevent as much from the other side as possible, instead of seeing that one achieves a good result together – and therefore now this result. In terms of content, not really much happened: It is just an adjustment of the value limits to inflation, and the unfaithful paragraph continues to allow much scope for anti-economic interpretations, and that is wrong. This section lacks the condition of the intention to do damage to the facts. That would be a prerequisite for any infidelity at all! How can such a bank ever lend a rehabilitation loan? And a business decision must be kept legal if the owners decide to do something! I quote Professor Fox: “If all shareholders or shareholders agree and the money flows from the daughter to the mother, then there is no unfaithfulness because no damage has occurred.” – Quotes. Where does the freedom of a manager end in his business decisions? If he or she makes an investment decision that goes well, then everyone expects a fat dividend when he or she makes an investment decision that goes into his pants, then is criminal law to come? Or if he or she has made this decision with the explicit consent of the owners? - That's absurd! Decisions in economic life are always risky, and a lot of risk is needed in entrepreneurship! This is a prerequisite for economic progress. But entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship and thinking seem to be a final attempt to suffocate in this country. Austria is becoming more and more socialist. You will still drive people out to want to become entrepreneurs or board of directors, and will make sure that as many people as possible find a job at the Chamber of Workers. In socialism, however, no one's prosperity was created – except for the officials. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Keck and Mr Brosz.]] So you should rather observe these species, not the managers whose courage our economic location urgently needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e22782	The next item is Mrs Dr. Karl's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e22803	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! For criminal law in particular, the values of the population must be reflected in the legal rules. If this is not the case, then the acceptance of the legal regulations in the population suffers. We have experienced such a problem of acceptance, with regard to the proportionality of the penalties in the case of physical offences and in the case of property offences. Penalties are perceived as not fair because disproportionately high in property offences and disproportionately low in body offences. The current criminal law reform will now respond to this. However, this reform also succeeds in adapting criminal law to the changed social realities and technical developments – for example, you think of the new practice of cybermobbing. Of course, the creation of legal certainty is also crucial. In the expert hearing in the Justice Committee, Professor Fuchs stressed the creation of legal certainty, particularly in the context of balance sheet fraud and infidelity. Ladies and gentlemen! Due to my short speaking time, I now have no time to go into detail because I still have to make an amendment. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e22892	The amendment has been properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e22982	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Meinl-Risinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e23003	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In principle, this is always a decision – today we have had to make it more often –: Here the glass is half full for us, so we also support this government template accordingly. We also welcome the direction of this government template, but I would also like to say at the outset that there is very little in this government template. One area, for example, is simply the dedusting of crime, which I believe is in the 21st century. There was nothing lost in the 19th century. Of course, an essential point that could be discussed would be all the facts that restrict freedom of expression. One thing we are going to discuss is that this is the approval of crimes which my colleague Scherak, I think, has made a request with Mr Korun. In this respect, I would have expected you to continue. After all, it has been announced as a great throw of reform, and that, I believe, remains behind expectations. I am also very sorry that nothing has yet to be done in the area of action. I know – or better: I hear – something is being prepared, something is going to happen, but I again point out that every day that nothing happens is a day when there is a human rights situation in Austria, and I therefore understand from the point of view of many interested parties that time is really pressing. What I personally lacked is the fundamental discussion, which was a punishment in 21. ==References====External links== – One could have questioned the original question to the reform group, i.e. whether there is a disproportionate relationship between the crimes against body and life and the property offences. This has in itself been well answered by the reform group and even now by this draft, but that could have been questioned. I believe that 40 years after the great reform, we could have discussed once again what we really want to do with punishment, especially since I see that the positions of the individual parties here in the House are very different, and I believe that there would have been a clear position by the government in the sense of an attitude towards a public debate that is not always quite simple. I would support the request of Mr Schrangl and Mr Stefan from the FPÖ as regards the limits of value – I am glad that you have gone down to the €300 000, but I also think that you may be shooting a little beyond the target – but there are other parts of your request that I cannot support. So we also have our problems with this €300 000, with this increase in the value limit, and, of course, with regard to the limitation. However, because it is a clear leap and, as my colleague Scherak in the committee has pointed out, it would be quite a possibility to abandon it as it did in Germany, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] One can also put this in the judicial discretion in the measure of penalties, and in fact we would have saved ourselves, I think, a lot of discussion. What I would also rather place at the judicial discretion in the matter of criminalisation is the question of commercialism. Individual experts have also pointed out that even there would have been a better step for us to delete this § 70 in general and also to put the – repetition of the act – into the hands of the judges when taking into account the penalties. I see that there were, of course, also concerns that if there were any gaps in the criminal police investigation, I understand, but that could have been solved in a process. Now I would like to make a brief statement of my unfaithfulness: In principle, I have great understanding of the uncertainty among the people there, and for this reason I also have a complaint of invalidity in order to preserve the Law brought in because I believe that the OGH decision in the Causa Libro is not ideal, let's say that. So why you need to change the law, I don't know. I too – although my name is Meinl – have nothing to do with “the” mine – see the danger of parallels in this causa, so I am glad that you have taken back part of this initiative proposal. I think, however, that the question of whether or not the OGH should continue in this regard should be asked in principle. But, okay, we can live with this recast. I also believe that it is good to have the Business Judge Rule anchored, as it also contributes to the possibility of a little relief from this uncertainty, which I have heard in many discussions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e23100	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e23147	Next speaker: Minister of State Dr. Brandstetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e23170	Madam President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen. Yes, I am pleased that it is so far today that once we have the reform of criminal law, we are ready for the time being when there is a draft on which we can vote. At the beginning of my very brief remarks, however, I would like to say that we owe this draft and this reform to my predecessor, Mrs. Dr. Beatrix Karl, who is now also present as a Member, because it was you who set the right initiative at the right time: In February 2013, she formed a high-ranking group of experts, which simply had to deal with the question completely independently and freely: What would we need to change our criminal law in the sense of modernisation? It is really important that we also rely on the Council of External Independent Experts here, especially in relation to criminal law, which naturally tends to polarize social policy, as we have seen in the course of the discussions. Finally, it is also this trend towards polarisation on key issues that have led us to receive a total of more than 200 opinions in the context of the broad review, which were partly very, very comprehensive and above all extremely different. And there it is already very difficult to really bring all the interests into one's mind. - But I'm still coming. Essentially – and this is the central point that I am concerned with – that we are creating a re-accentration with this draft reform – a re-accentration of criminal law that goes beyond modernisation, namely in the direction that we simply want to change the relationship between the penalties in the case of purely property offences, on the one hand, and in the case of crime and violence on the other. It simply makes sense to increase the protection of criminal law in the area of damage and damage that can no longer be done with money alone, and that is the fundamental concern that Mr Stefan, as he has just said, fully shares. This fundamental issue means changing the relationship of punishments. This can be done in many ways. One can increase the threat of criminal offences in the area of crime, in the case of crimes of body and life. That's what we did in part. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] One could also reduce the threats of punishment in the pure property offences. In the end, we did not do that, but we have tried to implement this emphasis over an increase in value limits. You have to see that. It would be a contradiction to say, on the one hand, yes, to criticize this reorientation, this re-accentuation, but on the other hand, exactly the lever with which we want to achieve this, namely the increase in value limits. That doesn't fit in. This is not just an inflation-related adjustment – no, it is also the lever with which we want to achieve very consciously that the penalties for the purely asset crimes in relation to the violent offences are reduced. This is the main concern of the bill. That is what I stand for, and there is broad agreement. We have noticed this as part of the review. Yes, of course, I also support the fact that we have received many suggestions and criticisms and have implemented what has been done in the course of the review. Especially in criminal law, this is necessary and important. Criminal law needs as broad a consensus as possible in order to ensure the best possible functioning. It is important to note that, in the light of the information provided by the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice of the European Communities and the Court of Justice of the European That is why it is so important to always seek consensus. If Mr Steinhauser now thinks it would be a shame to have been thrown back here again and again and again and again, I have to say that this has nothing to do with blasphemy. On the contrary, this is the honest attempt to find the broadest consensus possible, because it is necessary. Finally, criminal law, like the law in general, serves to ensure peace inside and outside. We need the widest possible consensus. We need to avoid polarization, and I stand for that. There must be no one in this area to adopt his or her personal opinion. I too cannot, and you too, Mr Steinhauser, should not. We need to be aware of consensus here, and consensus-making simply means compromise. I'm sure we did this here. Addressing criticism from the outside, responding to arguments from independent external experts: That is what we have done, and it has led to a great deal of change in the review process. – And it was good to see that. I think that should be the case, that is necessary. This, Mr Steinhauser, which you are now giving me as a frailty of mind, is really a real consequence, that is, consequence in the search for a viable compromise, consequence in the search for consensus. That's what I'm talking about. I don't give a rest until we've found a consensus. That was the ultimate motive of my activity in this area, and that makes sense. I am pleased, Mr Steinhauser, that you say that we would largely agree in the problem analysis. – Yes, but an implementation of what you might see as correct in the problem analysis – personally recognized as correct – without taking other opinions into account, I thought this was not correct in the interests of the right itself. But you can try it once. You only need to make sure that you once have the absolute majority. Then you can want to implement one thing that you feel is right, but I would also warn against a personal opinion as correct. It would not really serve the right and the actual task of securing peace inside and outside. Perhaps there are two points in detail, because this has also been mentioned by you, Mr Steinhauser. – The change in the state of injurement and the element you took out serves to clarify the situation. The intention concerns a part of the situation and is necessary in order to achieve such a clarification, because it is ultimately an aspect which has not yet emerged, namely legal certainty. Legal certainty and the relevant rule of law criteria are indispensable in criminal law, in terms of appropriate sanctions. It is very, very important to take this into account. It is important to me – and I am also in favour of this – that the increased protection of sexual self-determination in criminal law, which you have praised, can actually be realized. I think it is very important that we make real progress with this new criminal provision on the violation of sexual self-determination. I am also in favour of the fact that we have carefully and rationally expanded sexual harassment. That is also necessary. I know that some people are too far and others too far, but I think that what is now in place here is not enough. On the one hand, criminal policy is highly sensible and, on the other hand, sufficiently determined by the rule of law. It is also in line with the basic principles of criminal law. Not every unwanted contact should already call the prosecutor and the judge on the plan, but those who are really intense and deplorable should also find very probably criminal boundaries. That's what I'm talking about. You will not hear from me this word that the Boulevard media have so much liked to fall on. It has so far been reserved for colleagues to mention and use Steinhauser. I certainly do not use this word because it is impoverishing, obnoxious and therefore does not really justify it. That's what I'm standing for. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Furthermore, I do not want to limit the basic approach of this criminal law reform to the relationship between property offences and violent offences. In principle, it is a matter of greater criminal protection of the personality. This also concerns provisions relating to data security. It is about the fact that we wanted to create, for example, cybermobbing as a matter of fact, new instruments that would protect the personality as a whole more criminally. We have also made clarifications, for example in the case of a breach of peace. Everything together, I think, leads to the fact that you can say: On the basis of the greatest possible and broadest possible consensus – and to that end, I think he is necessary and sensible – we have finally created a draft that will now also be available to you after the changes in the parliamentary process, which I believe is something very meaningful. I would also like to use this opportunity to thank my employees warmly. It was really very, very much work, commitment and initiative that were put into this matter. On behalf of my group, I would like to see Mr Mag. Christian Pilnacek thank you, but also my staff in the cabinet Mrs. Mag. Karoline Edtstadler and my chief of the cabinet Mr. Chief Advocate Dr. Alexander Pirker. They should also be mentioned in this context, because, I think, it is useful to point out that in the end what we have presented here would not have been possible without a really working teamwork. Therefore: Thank you to all those who have contributed, but also to all those who have been involved in these highly constructive discussions within the Committee on Justice. This thanks to all the political groups. Another little thing. Mrs. Meinl-Reisinger, because you meant that no time should be lost with regard to the reform of criminal enforcement, which is not the subject of this draft: I'm here with you, that's not a question, but I can calm you in so far as I really can say – not least knowing what my team is doing in the Federal Ministry –: There's no day with us where nothing happens. No, it really happens every day, and we do everything we can to push things forward as fast as it goes. All in all, I can only ask that you also give your consent to this draft law, which I consider to be a truly successful one. You have a chance here to help a good law come true again. I'm asking you to do this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e23301	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e23323	Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank the staff who work so valuablely behind the scenes, on behalf of my group. – Thank you very much for this really successful work! What is the purpose of the reform of the criminal code? – It has already been said here: On the one hand, one wanted to create a better balance between crimes against body and life and property crimes – that was successful – and on the other hand, with a structural change, to better protect personality rights. Really “hotly disputed, wildly disputed” could be said when it came to improving two paragraphs of sexual criminal law. I am particularly pleased that an agreement has now been reached – for the sake of women. The protection of sexual integrity is an essential element of a self-determined life of women and girls. [[Abg. Singer: And men too!]] The novels of the Criminal Code take an important and good step in the right direction. For this, women's organisations, women's institutions, women's ministers and I have fought very hard, we have been working for years, and it is therefore a great success. The extension of protection against sexual harassment is an important step that makes clear that sexual harassment is not a cavalier offence and is socially undesirable. Not only will the contact of the victim’s body parts belonging to the immediate sexual sphere be considered a nuisance in the future, but any intense and excusive sexual harassment will be punishable. Sexual assaults on women are not a cavalier offense. – I keep saying this so that it goes into the minds of so many gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Sexual harassment has long been punishable in accordance with labour law; the criminal offences in labour law are now also enshrined in the Criminal Code, and that is good. The new criminal record of the violation of sexual self-determination is also important in the sense of women. It must be clear that a No must be sufficient; if Mrs says No, she means No – and not Yes or anything else. Other improvements for women in the context of violence are also included in this novel of the Criminal Code, namely the strengthening of the rights of victims in Disversion. Hard grounds have been introduced in the case of acts of violence in the family, and the removal abroad for the purpose of forced marriage or cyber-mobbing become criminal offences. There is also an increase in the penalties for qualified body injuries, for example the genital mutilation, the FGM. I am convinced that these many new provisions in the Criminal Code improve the self-determination and sexual integrity of women. That is why, from my point of view, this is also a woman's spokesman, as a women's politician – I say it now – big throw. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e23369	Next, Mr Magistrate. Darmann speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e23393	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I wish that it would not have been necessary to speak again to the current item on the agenda – the ban on sexual offenders' activities – because it is only because of the fact that you have rejected this request from the government groups and once again, after several parliamentary initiatives by the FPÖ, do not want to jump above your own political shadow, although you, ladies and gentlemen – and this has been viewed by you during the debate in the Committee – have become aware of the problem, and I believe that I could also make it understandable to you how important it is for sexual offenders who have been taking care of minors in custody, in which education has been misused, after a fine of detention, to not give you once again the opportunity to work in the same field of work and to care for our children. It has been seen to all of you that you have understood, and if Mr Brandstetter has just meant literally earlier, criminal law needs broad consensus as far as possible, then I do not understand you, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, at first, because with our requests we have been able to convince both the Greens and the NEOS as well as the Stronach team. That is to say, the political spectrum is already extremely broad, and therefore it is not clear how to express itself against the content of our request by SPÖ and ÖVP, ladies and gentlemen! The proposal, which is now under discussion, has also prompted me and our group to do something that I have already announced on several occasions in the Committee, namely that we will not loosen the issue of freedom. On the side of the government groups, this criminal law reform will be regarded as comprehensive, yes, as a centenary work. Mr Steinacker has literally said that she praises this modern criminal law at the height of time. – I ask you: Is it not much more important to have effective and effective criminal law – taking into account the dangers we know, ladies and gentlemen? Is it not important to deal with the dangers there? I also raised this point in the Committee: We all, as fathers, as mothers, as grandmothers and as grandpas of children and young people, in whatever degree of relationship, know that this summer holiday camps will take place, and the main problem will not be the instigated nose or the spade that the child enters, but the possibility – I emphasize: the possibility – which is still given by our criminal code that condemned sexual offenders in this holiday camp will take care of our children. You have to let this go through your head, which is crazy! And we are the ones who would be called to remove this problem, this danger from the world. Unfortunately – with all personal respect, Mr Federal Minister; we have had the debate in the committee several times now – you always resort to the argument that, because of a certain percentage of relapses, you cannot prohibit the other who are not arrears from working in this field. In my view, this is an argument that is cockbucks, especially when it comes to the welfare of our children, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ as well as with representatives of the Stronach team.]] As I have also said that we will remain there and will continue to try to get a parliamentary majority to finally amend this section 220b of the Criminal Code in the direction that it is an absolute ban on activities for There is a number of sexual offenders in this area, there is again today again a corresponding motion for a resolution which has been distributed on the basis of its scope. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] I have already explained it in the key points. In addition, this request also includes, ladies and gentlemen, that in the future there will be an application procedure for public and private institutions based on a criminal record information for sexual offences, on the basis of which everyone who seeks to obtain a job in the care, education or supervision of children, i.e. minors, is obliged to present this criminal registry extract in the relevant public or private body, in order to take care of mentally impaired and defenseless persons and to exercise it in a professional environment. If there's an empty message, because someone didn't do anything, he'd have to do it. If this institution does not require this certificate of criminal record, there will have to be penalties, ladies and gentlemen, because there is a topic on the table that cannot be discussed in breadth like other paragraphs and that cannot be considered and assessed differently according to ideological origin, because, I believe, we all agree that people who are already punishable as sexual offenders have lost nothing more in the education and supervision of our children, but also, of course, where it is concerned with the care of defenceless persons, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] So please go inside and think about whether our requests are not really acceptable – even in this case! I also worked it out in the Committee: It is a task for the Federal Government to present a relevant government paper. We do not want to talk about the outcome of this government proposal. We are not concerned that the liberals will achieve this achievement if we make a reform here when they sell their project, but it is about creating this danger from the world. A study of the year 2010 of the Berlin Charité, in the “Süddeutsche Zeitung” of 17th century. In May 2010, printed – can also be accessed on the Internet, for all those interested – says that 80 percent of the pedophile men fall back. In order to see a need for reform in this field, there is no need for an 80 percent, ladies and gentlemen, because if we can only prevent one, two cases by abolishing the possibility of them returning to this field of work by an absolute ban on activities if we can prevent this, then we have already been very, very much further – namely here as a whole, in a consensus as broad as possible, as the Federal Minister has said. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to ask you to take another look at what is contained in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, namely Article 1 concerning human dignity: “The dignity of man is untouchable. It must be respected and protected” – in conjunction with the Federal Constitutional Law on the Rights of Children, which is still to be discussed today, which was also decided in Austria in 2011. There's in art. 5 written – and I really ask you to pay attention accordingly, because this is an order for us to take corrective action here and to implement this absolute prohibition of activity –: “Every child has the right to nonviolent education. Physical punishments, the addition of mental suffering, sexual abuse and other abuses are prohibited. Each child has the right to protection against economic and sexual exploitation." Ladies and gentlemen, as legislators, we are called upon to act accordingly. That is why the agenda item 11 to be discussed is in itself an opportunity for you to agree to this, but in particular the request I made in the broad outlines also offers an opportunity, in the next vote, to add color to this danger to our children, including the renewed sexual harassment and the sexual abuse of defenseless persons, to finally get out of the world. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e23493	The motion for a resolution, which has just been tabled by Mr Darmann, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. I do not want to be small, Mr Darmann, but I would like to make one comment: In the case of applications distributed in writing, it is of course left to you to make the explanation in detail or less detailed. That's all right, too. However, I would ask all Members of this House to maintain at least that form, to comply with the minimum standard and the sentence 'I am therefore bringing forward the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs N.N. to say and to mention the topic and then to follow the explanations. I accept it, but that is why I would ask all my colleagues to do so in the future. At least that form we already need the formal introduction to take place. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e23676	Mr Brandstetter has spoken a second time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e23698	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen. I would just like to say a sentence on what Mr Darmann has just said. The fact is that no one can dispute that, of course, we have the legal possibility, in § 220b Abs. 2 of the Criminal Code, which also lays down an unlimited restriction on the employment of minors. That is, the possibility of an undetermined professional ban on sexual offenders already exists, we already have in our law – however, and that is important, under judicial control. There is no need for criminal policy to demand more here. [[Abg. Darmann: Who decides?]] – The court decides on that, and that is a good thing. [[Abg. Darmann: With experts?]] – The court decides on this, and no one has thought of anything better. That's called the rule of law, Mr Darmann, yes. That's right, and there's no better thing. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] To all that you have said, I would also like to say: I mean, you paint a ghost on the wall, that's a ghost! - Just so you can shoot this ghost with cannons. [[Abg. Jarolim: That was an unbearable word report!]] The fact is, clarification: It is already provided in the law for the possibility of an undetermined professional ban for exactly the group of offenders you mentioned. That's it, that's fact, and no one can argue. I'm sorry, but the
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e23787	Mr Jarolim, I give you a call for an order for this call. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ as well as with representatives of the Stronach team.]] Now comes Mr Mag. Big deal. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e23822	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear tax consultants at the gallery above! When I became a member of the National Council, a colleague came to me. a book was handed over, on it was “Strafrecht für Wirtschaftsficheränder”, and it was essentially about the falsification of the balance sheet. After reading this book and after many meetings in the Committee on Justice, it was now possible to achieve that this variety of regulations, divided into many laws, could be combined, because these many regulations had not only different definitions, but also different dimensions of punishment, and it was no longer possible for normal legal users to have an overview of these criminal regulations. Now this has been summarized and only the true criminal is now in the Criminal Code. What's going to be punished? – It punishes the representation “in an inaccurate way ” if one presents it as false or incomplete, which is “adequate to cause a significant damage. ” Now you know, there's no real balance. It's just the question: Why is it, and how is it evaluated? With the statement “in an irresistible way ” and“ a considerable damage, ” one can catch people, determine an increased amount of punishment, and make mistakes in accounting punishable. Also important is the separation between the organs and the auditors, because these are quite different approaches and other points of view that will take place during the accounting process. The issue of when active repentance is conducted is also dealt with accordingly. The issue of unfaithfulness, which many colleagues have already mentioned, is also particularly important to me. Because of the case law, we have had an ungood stomach feeling in the economy. The managers no longer trusted themselves to make the decisions. Bank directors no longer agreed to issue the loan. It is also important to redefine this state of action, to define again this “irresponsible way” where mistakes can occur, and also to increase the level of punishment, i.e. the damage that arises, from €50,000 to €300 000; for in this way, we can make the many small loans, at least the many small management decisions, punishable insofar as they are not conducted in an irresistible way. This will help to ensure that the credit terminal that is there can be solved again, that there are opportunities for our companies to provide our companies with financial resources. That too is an essential point of this criminal law reform, for which I thank you very much. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e23865	The next item is the motion for a resolution by Mrs Weigerstorfer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e23886	Mr President. Minister! Yes, many issues have already been addressed which are affected by the criminal law reform, but yet one that I would like to refer to now, namely the planned increase in the crime of animal disease. Not only is it a major concern to me personally, I believe I can also speak here on behalf of many, many animal friends and, above all, many animals, and would like to thank the Minister for the way in which both committees, both in the Health Committee and in the Justice Committee, have also been somewhat granted our request. It is in the Constitution that the person who keeps, or cares for, an animal is obliged to maintain, feed and provide the animal with an appropriate level of subscribing. and that no pain or suffering may be caused to the animal. However, despite these already existing protective measures, you know that, unfortunately, in recent months, animal torture in Austria has increased very much, from 2013 to 2014 alone, it has been 200 more cases. All of us, when we have been persecuting the report, still have very good eyes on the wild boars that have been tormented by young people to death, the swan that has been stoned to death from fun, jux and tollery. Only a few days ago, people's students stepped an hedgehog until he was really seriously injured and then even had to be suffocated. So you see, there is an urgent need for action, and there is also a wealth of studies that clearly prove that extreme atrocities against animals or sadistic animal torture are almost always some sort of ‘introduction drug’ and the further consequence is abuses of people, weaker, children and older people. So I'm very glad there's an increase in punishment. I would have liked to say honestly that it was at least three years ago, and our neighbouring countries Germany and Switzerland presented it less time ago. It's gonna be two years now. But it is the first step for which I would like to thank myself on behalf of many animal friends, but I would also like to stick to the subject and say: It is a first, a small step, but I believe that there are still very many steps to be taken in this area, because animals have feelings, and appreciation for animals is, in my opinion, a very, very important basis of our overall social behaviour. Therefore, a first little thank you to the Minister in the sense of all animals.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e23943	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Grossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e23965	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The criminal law reform contains many important innovations to make our criminal law more modern. The Minister has summarised it under the following heading: It is about a heightening of personality rights. And this height assessment is expressed in many things: in the long-standing production of the balance of the threats of criminal offences in the face of crimes against body and life, on the one hand, and asset crimes, on the other, but also in the heightening of the legal property of sexual self-determination. But this reform of criminal law also takes a step towards taking greater account of today's technological possibilities of criminal law. Because – ladies and gentlemen, you all know, we hear it, we read it via Facebook and Twitter as well as in other so-called social media forums, in comments in online media and much more –: There are a variety of ways to harm others in their reputation, to insult others, to threaten others, or to incite people. At the push of a button, you can reach a variety of people in a very short time, as well as expressing a lot of undesirable things, and there is a need to keep legal order step by step with these technical and social changes and to provide people with the necessary protection. The existence of cyber-mobbing, including the re-design, with the re-formulation of the dangerous threat, but also with the re-formulation of the heating paragraph, has taken essential steps to ensure that the population is protected. However, what seems very, very important to me is the broader education of consciousness. I think that the awareness of injustice in these areas is not yet sufficiently strong, and one has to say: In the case of youth, I imagine, it is still best done by school, by appropriate public education measures. But we need a broad awareness-raising in the population because, as I think, many are not aware that they are already in the criminal field with one foot or two feet, when they place many things on Facebook, via Twitter or via other media. I would therefore ask you, Minister, to set in motion a broad awareness-raising system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e24010	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e24031	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Very shortly at the beginning on the question of the protection of sexual self-determination and sexual harassment. I can only give you, Mrs Worm, quite right, I think it is a good solution. And I think it is very good, especially in the light of this debate, which was conducted in an unbearable way, that we have a solution, as such behaviours simply belong to criminal law, because they are not too cheap, and so they are really, if the Ultima ratio principle is interpreted very closely. [[I would like to congratulate the NEOS and the SPÖ representatives.]] Another thing, to freedom of expression: Statements of opinion are not only legitimate if they please one, but also if they insult when they shock when they disturb, namely the population as well as the state. Unfortunately, there is still a criminal record in Austria, § 282 para. 2, in which a person is punished if he publicly approves a crime in a way that disturbs the general sense of law. That is, people who take action against criminal law by condoning the ponized act are threatened with punishment. In my opinion, this is clearly in conflict with the fundamental right to freedom of expression when we criminalise such statements. When we remember the question of homosexual paragraph: It is precisely such a debate about such a section that may be criminalised by this crime, which still exists. This must not be so because we need exactly such discussions, which must be allowed in a living democracy. Freedom of expression is the mother of all fundamental rights, since it is the freedom to demand the other fundamental rights, and that is why we must always be very careful when it comes to restrictions on freedom of expression. In addition, the section is also dead right and, as has been said, it does not justify this massive restriction of freedom of expression. We could have abolished just such offences within the framework of the StGB-Novelle. I You still have the opportunity here to agree to the request from Mr Korun and me in the late understanding. I think this is very essential because freedom of expression is the basis of a living democracy and we must protect it accordingly, wherever it goes.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e24080	Mr Wittmann spoke next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e24101	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! In principle, this criminal law reform is a reform that is extremely supportive, and we have for many years complained that the relationship between the punishment of offences in the body and life and property offences has come into disorder. In principle, criminal law must in itself reflect the social circumstances and must also be accepted, and therefore it must be renewed from time to time when new values arise when new technical possibilities are given when new acts arise – and this has happened here. An example I can quote: A judgment of a court in Austria, €60 000 misappropriation, six years of imprisonment; another decision of an Austrian court: 14 Knifes, a woman is killed, seven years of imprisonment. That there has been a misunderstanding and that in no way has stood up to social developments and that it no longer corresponds to our values, that is obvious. This has been corrected: The lever were two ways. One is to raise the value limits from 3,000 to 5,000 or from 50,000 to 300 000. In my opinion, these limits reflect the social values, and I believe that one could probably have gone up even further with a value, as it is possible to replace them with money. The other, an injury of body and life, is not payable with money, especially if it results in serious consequences. That's why I'm for doing that. I am also at the controversial infidelity paragraph for doing so. Another example from practice: A bank director will, although for a loan granted, all the Councils will be on the spot and Reimbursement was made on time and no damage was incurred, because the ex-post view said: At the time of the loan, the credit quality of the credit was not given, so it is infidelity! – So there is also a clarification that in certain things the damage must also occur. I'm fine with that. I find this law successful, I find it adapted to social developments, I find it correct in its tendency, and I also consider the lever to make it over the value limits to be correct. And this also includes redefining the commerciality, because, in particular, small crime, especially in small offences, has been punished overly well, and the redefinition of industrialism does not give the interpretation much scope.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e24146	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Schrangl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e24168	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister for Justice! Mr Ostermayer, Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We liberals welcome the higher punishments for crimes against body and life. With the sanctions against cybermobbing you go absolutely in the right direction and adapt the criminal code to the technical conditions of our time. But what we think has been totally forgotten is to protect those who enforce this criminal law for us. We don't do anything for the police who become victims of attacks every day and every day. We do not do anything for the prosecutors, judges, experts and witnesses, who are also with us – thank God not as terrible as in the Federal Republic of Germany, but also with us – ever more often faced with distress, threats and sometimes attacks. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Unfortunately, the government parties and the Justice Ministers have not recognized the need to take this terrible development into account in the legislative text. We as legislators are, please, obliged to those people whose task it is to protect the rule of law and democracy, and we must not leave these people in the rain. We liberals will therefore continue to fight for minimum penalties for attacks and threats against our executives. Mr. Federal Minister! For you as an expert: It may be possible to provide for these groups in an analogous way to the regulation of the § 39a Criminal Code. On the other hand – the minister did not want to take the word into his mouth, I take it in my mouth – one has put in the stuff for the po-grapple. [[Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek: Not for it, but against it!]] There, however, the Minister of Women went on glue properly. Since she does not bring anything together in education, she has moved on to the po-gross. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It's a little bit overstretched to strike here with the sharp cull of criminal law. Yeah, you're right, Mrs. Colleague, it's morally not all right, but since you're dealing with the sharp cue of criminal law, it's covered. In addition, it is an authorisation crime and not a private debt offence. There could have been a weakening, so that it does not come to an opportunity for unloving competitors to be approached somewhere, but is really only used then, if something really happens. Then you have to bear the financial risk, and then I don't think you're going to blame anyone for it. In a completely wrong direction, one has also gone in another matter, namely the release of cannabis. This is also often demanded here in the House, not only by the greens that have become more conspicuous in this respect, but also more and more unfortunately by the NEOS. However, the medical and psychosocial price is very high, and must pay it especially the boys. On the homepage of the Greens and also on Wikipedia you can read about the great, healing effects of marijuana, and also the media are full of it. However, the “New England Journal of Medicine” comes to other insights. It says that marijuana consumption in puberty in particular has terrible consequences. And even if you repeat that alcohol would be much more harmful and much more often consumed, this is nevertheless, please, still no reason to release cannabis and release this drug to our young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e24219	Next word: Mrs Kucharovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e24241	Mr President. Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! I find – and this has also confirmed the statements made by Mr Schrangl – that we cannot say it often enough: With today's StGB-Novelle we take such an important step towards self-determination of women, for self-determination over one's own body! A long-standing demand from us SPÖ women and other women's organisations will finally become reality. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Victims of sexual harassment now finally know that the right is on their side, whether in the working world or in all other areas of life. The extension of protection against sexual harassment clearly makes it clear that sexual harassment is not a cavalier offence. And the symbolism, to regulate this in the criminal code, is of great social importance. Sexual harassment has no place in our society and is clearly punished. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Every unwanted and depressing touch simply does not go, for each person has the right to self-determination over his own body – and the po is quite clearly part of it. I felt it was inconceivable that, in particular, a colleague put it in advance and took it off. Po-Grappling is an excusive touch and, as has been said, can also be punished in the future. In addition, by strengthening the protection of sexual self-determination in the future, it will also be possible to say no, whether this is clearly expressed by words or by crying, but also by first-hand arrests. This is a great success for women affected. Let me address another area of the StGB. An important requirement during the review process was to decriminalize sexting as part of the sexual self-determination of young people without impoverishing the risk of cybermobbing. What does sexting mean? – Sexting means sending nude recordings via SMS or mail. So far, it has been regulated in such a way that young people who have sent their own photos, for example, within a relationship, have themselves been guilty of child pornography and have thereby made themselves punishable. The distinction – and this we meet – between primary and secondary sexting ensures the sexual self-determination of young people while at the same time protecting their intimacy by prohibiting spread. Finally, a great deal of thanks to our Minister of Women for her tenacity, which has not been relaxed in the negotiations with the Minister of Justice and which has thus met with further improvements in the spirit of women. Because one thing is clear to us: My body is self-determined. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e24298	Mrs Schenk. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a point of order. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e24319	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The reform of criminal law is very comprehensive. We have heard a lot about it today, and many issues have been addressed. I would also like to say a few words. As far as the changes in sex criminal law are concerned, I already have a different opinion than my previous speaker and also as some other previous speakers. I believe that we have gone too far and that these changes in these areas are more of a superfluous regulation, that they are almost the result of a regulatory will. We already have sufficient legal, criminal law, and I do not think we have to write everything in criminal law that some left women's organisations want to kill. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and FPÖ.]] I would also like to address the Greens because there is some sort of double morality here. You have to show this and tell people. On the one hand, they are very much committed to harder punishments – we have already heard it in the statements, it should be tightened up, Po-Grapchen et cetera, even more punishments, even harder punishments, even longer punishments et cetera, et cetera – but when it comes to left-wing demonstrations, when it comes to accusing people who go to a ball peacefully, shaking, throwing, when it comes to doing property damage, then the greens want to eliminate and destroy the section “land peace break”. This is a double morale, ladies and gentlemen, who smell to heaven and who also need to be addressed here. [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and FPÖ as well as representatives of the ÖVP.]] There are also positive areas in this criminal law reform. Cybermobbing has been recorded as its own crime. Unfortunately, it has been rejected here to make its own anti-mobbing law, to make it a criminal offence, which I have often demanded. Mobbing has many facets, mobbing happens in many areas, not only on the Internet, in the working world, in schools, already in kindergartens, in clubs, in the neighborhood. In particular, the education and school sector is particularly concerned here, and not for nothing has the public prosecutor Fichtenbauer launched an official test procedure at the beginning of this year, in January, which concerns an anti-mobbing strategy in schools, because this problem is very obvious and very large, increasing and nothing is done about it. Here, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, the opportunity has been denied to make this criminal law reform its own anti-mobbing law. Those affected really feel shaky, it's a blow to the face of those affected. I have contact with many interested parties, including the self-help group in Graz, with Mrs Pichler. And if they have to read or hear that experts from your working group say: Mobbing people are supposed to change the place of residence or the workplace!, then they can only wonder how realistic this assessment is. There is a real question of what is going on in this working group or what is going on in these people by giving such answers to those affected by Mobbing. I believe that we need an anti-mobbing law and, in conclusion, make the following request in this context: [[Quoted print version removed]] I ask for your approval and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e24395	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mrs Donk is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e24471	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Tür. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e24492	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! With this reform of criminal law, we treat cybermobbing for the first time as legislators. According to the City School Council, there are 150 cases of cybermobbing each year alone in Vienna schools. And these 150 cases are just those serious ones that lead to a school change or a school drop-off. I'm afraid the dark count is higher. In 2010, the tragic case of 13-year-old Joel occurred in Velden in Carinthia: After a mobbing attack on Facebook, where it was about nude representations and its sexual orientation, this young boy took his life. Due to the inadequate legal situation, the perpetrators could not be investigated. At that time, there was no concrete case for a court decision, Facebook did not cooperate. Since then, Joel's mother Michaela is fighting for cybermobbing to be taken seriously. SPÖ and ÖVP are implementing a point of their government programme. It corresponds to the social reality that with § 107c StGB, we create the crime stock cybermobbing to protect children and young people from psychological violence on the Internet. It's a shame that blue and green don't take part in this progress. Progress and modernisation of our criminal law are also evident in the Drugs Act. Of course, we are dealing with drugs, we are not looking away, but the Austrian way, the successful Austrian path, is called “therapy instead of punishment”: The possession of minimal amounts of cannabis is no longer punished. We don't want very young people, we don't want first consumers to land immediately with the prosecutor and the judge. We believe that young people with their problem with health authorities, with their parents, are better removed. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Overall, our reform of criminal law is characterised by a new, modern balance in the criminal framework between property offences and violent offences. Wealth crimes are tending to be more easily punished, violent offences are more severed, because the health of body and life is unique, not to replace and restore money, and therefore needs our special protection. A wormhead drop remains, Minister of State: The Jugendgerichtshof, abolished under Minister Böhmdorfer, leaves us. The Jugendgerichtshof assumes a modern, European application of criminal law. The SPÖ will continue to fight for an Austrian Jugendgerichtshof. Mr. Federal Minister, come with me! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e24544	Now Mrs. Klubobfrau Ing. Dietrich speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e24565	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Tow crime is a serious offence because it ends with death for many refugees. So far, tow crime has been regulated in foreign law. We want the punishments to be tightened. That is why I shall put forward a motion for a resolution to regulate tow crime in criminal law from now on. Mr Hagen has already made himself strong in this regard in the Committee on the Interior. The request was postponed, but it was all agreed that it would be useful to increase the level of punishment. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e24623	The one by Clubobfrau Ing. The motion for a resolution tabled by Dietrich is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e24700	A second time, Mr Darmann, has been mentioned as the next and provisional last speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e24721	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! I cannot, of course, leave the previous, absolutely distorted statements of the Federal Minister in the room without comment. Mr Federal Minister, you have indeed tried here to make the High House and also the listening people believe that the current legal situation is that there is already an absolute ban on activity and there would be no need for action here. You have access to this issue, which is diametrically opposed to that of our group by 180 degrees, because one thing is clear: First of all, the legislator has presumed to distinguish between mild and severe consequences for victims in sexual criminal law, which in itself is an insanity, when one knows that these consequences can only occur much later, whereas the decision whether or not a person is sentenced to a certain level of punishment or not can be made much earlier. Secondly, it is said again and again that it is simply impossible to express an absolute ban on activities and asked how to do so. I would like to ask you, and also the honourable Members, who have so far still voted against this absolute prohibition of activity: Why are officials doing this? From a certain level of punishment, there is an absolute ban on the profession of an official. Why is that for a lawyer? From a certain level of punishment, he can no longer exercise his profession. Why should it not be for condemned sexual offenders in dealing with our children and young people, in dealing with defenseless persons? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You must answer that, ladies and gentlemen. And that is also a question I put to you, Mr Federal Minister, because it is anything but an absolute ban on activity if there is a cannibal rule! And now, in current law, it is a kann-destination. A judge may prohibit his activity in the event of mild consequences. A judge may prohibit his activity for a certain period of time in the event of serious consequences. He needs an expert, a review, and we know what about this one. Reports always happen – namely misestimation of the further risks posed by these persons. And then there is a relapse state, repeated rapes. And this is to be ruled out by an absolute ban on activities, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is our access and, I hope, sooner or later also the access of the majority here in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e24802	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We now come to a number of votes, including a few votes of a national nature. So I'm asking for attention. I shall vote separately on each of the Committee's proposals. Vote on agenda item 10: Draft Criminal Change Act 2015 in 728 of the Supplements. For this purpose, the following applications shall be submitted: Amendment or amendment tabled by Mr Mag. Schrangl, ladies and gentlemen. Amendment tabled by Mr Mag. Steinacker, Dr. Jarolim, colleagues. There is also a desire for a separate vote by Members against. First of all, I will vote on the parts of the bill, which have not yet been voted on by the supplementary or amending amendments mentioned and by the request for separate vote. Deputies Mag. Schrangl, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an amendment which is in its own right. 1 z 16, 24 and 25. Whoever comes in for this, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever is for this, please give a sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Deputies Mag. Schrangl, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an additional request for the insertion of a new paragraph. 3 in Sections 85 and 86 of Art. 1 refers. Whoever is for this, please give a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. Deputies Mag. Steinacker, Dr. Jarolim, colleagues have tabled an amendment which is in the form of an amendment. 1 C 53. Whoever is for this, please give a sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Deputies Mag. Schrangl, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an amendment which is in its own right. 1 Z 62, 65, 68, 71 and 74 to 78 and 83. Whoever is for this, please give a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever is for this, please give a sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Deputies Mag. Steinacker, Dr. Jarolim, colleagues have an amendment concerning Art. 1 Z 84. Whoever is for this, please give a sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Deputies Mag. Schrangl, colleagues have an amendment with regard to Art. 1 Z 85. Whoever is for this, please give a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. Deputies Mag. Steinacker, Dr. Jarolim, colleagues have tabled an amendment to the Z 87 amendment regulations in Art. 1 refers. Whoever is for this, please give a sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Deputies Mag. Schrangl, ladies and gentlemen, have an amendment concerning Art. 1 Z 87 § 153 para. 3 introduced. Whoever is for this, please give a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever is for this, please give a sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Deputies Mag. Schrangl, ladies and gentlemen, have an amendment concerning Art. 1 C 90 and 95. Whoever is for this, please give a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever is for this, please give a sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Deputies Mag. Steinacker, Dr. Jarolim, colleagues have an amendment concerning Art. 1 Z 101. Whoever is for this, please give a sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Deputies Mag. Schrangl, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an amendment which is in its own right. 1 Z 103. Whoever is for this, please give a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever is for this, please give a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall proceed to a separate vote on the subject. 1 Z 155 as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Deputies Mag. Schrangl, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an amendment which is in its own right. 1 Z 162 and 163 and 175 and 178 to 180. Whoever is for this, please give a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever is for this, please give a sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Deputies Mag. Steinacker, Dr. Jarolim, colleagues have an amendment concerning Art. 3 Z 33. Whoever is for this, please give a sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. Whoever is for this, please give a sign. – This is accepted by the majority. That is why we shall come to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are also at third reading for this draft law to give a sign. – This is, in turn, accepted by the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted and adopted at third reading. vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report 728 of the Supplements on criminal offences in violation of sexual self-determination and sexual harassment and public sexual acts. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. (E 94.) Debates of the European Parliament Meinl-Reisinger, ladies and gentlemen, on the examination of the abolition of the value-limits. Whoever is for this, please give a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. Debates of the European Parliament Darmann, colleagues in the field of life-long ban on sexual offenders in the field of education, training or supervision of minors, defenseless and psychologically impaired persons in private and public care institutions and organisations. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must be taken. For this vote only the official voting documents which are in the House of Members can be used. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I would ask those Members who vote in favour of Mr Darmann's motion for a resolution, ladies and gentlemen, to vote in favour of the 'yes' vote, those who vote against, to cast 'No' vote. I now ask the writer, Mrs Lueger, to begin the call for name; Mr Gahr will replace them later.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e25082	The vote will end. [[Abg. Vavrik is about to throw his ballot into the constituency.]] No, I can't do that anymore, my colleague. [[Abg. Vavrik, despite the information given by President Head, says that a vote is no longer possible, is voting in the poll.]] Please don't count that voice! I have already declared the vote to be terminated. I've hesitated long enough. I would ask you once again not to take this vote into account in the vote. I am now interrupting the meeting in order to list the votes carried out by the House's officials under the supervision of the scribes. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e25147	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. Members cast: 168; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 72, ‘No’ votes: 96. The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Darmann, ladies and gentlemen is therefore rejected. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Alm, Angerer, Aslan, Belakovich-Jenewein, Bösch, Brosz; Darmann, Deimek, Dietrich, Doppler, Ertlschweiger; Fuchs; Glavischig-Piesczek; Hables, oats, hagens, hoebarts, moorings; Jannach, Jarmer; Karlsböck, Kassinger, Kickl, Kitzmüller, Köchl, Kogler, Korun, Kumpitsch; Lausch, Lichtenecker, Lintl, Loacker, Lugar Robert; Maurer, Meinl-Reisinger, Mölzer, Moser, Mückstein, Mühlberghuber, Musiol; Rebaur Kathrin, Neubauer Werner; Pirklhuber, Podgorschek; smoke Walter, Riemer, Rosary Barbara, Rosary Walter, Rossmann; Schellenbacher, Schellhorn, Scherak, Schimanek, Schmid Gerhard, Schmid Julian, Schrangl, Stefan, Steger, Steinbichler, Steinhauser, Strache, Strolz; themesl; Walser, Refusertorfer, Willi, Windbüchler-Sushill, Winter, Worm Peter; Singer, Zinggl. Members voted with ‘No’: Amon, Antoni, Aubauer, Auer, Bacher Walter, Becher Ruth, Berlakovich, Buchmayr, Bures; Cap; Darabos, Diesner Wais, perforation; Ecker, Ehmann, El Habbassi, Eßl, Fichtinger Klaus Uwe, Fekter, Fichtinger Angela; Gahr, Gerstl, Gessl-Ranftl, Greiner Karin, Grillitsch, Groiß, Grossmann, Gusenbauer-Jäger; Hakel Elisabeth, Hammer Michael, Hanger Andreas, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Himmelbauer, Hofinger Manfred, Höfinger Johann, Holzinger, Huainigg; Jank, Jarolim; Karl, Katzian, Keck, Kirchgatterer, Knes, Königsberger-Ludwig, Kopf, Krainer Kai Jan, Krist, Kucharovich, Kucher, Kuntzl, Kuzdas; Lipitsch, Lopatka, Lueger Angela; Matznetter, Mayer, Obernosterer, kilnauer, ottenschlager; Pendl, Pfurtscheller, Plessl, Preiner, Prince; Rädler, Rasinger, Rauch Johannes; Schieder, Schittenhelm, Schmuckenschlager, Schönegger, Schopf, Schultes, Sieber Norbert, Singer Johann, Spindelberger, Steinacker, Strasser; Tumandl, daughters, door; sub-railers; Vetter, Vogl; Weninger, Wimmer, tiny, Wittmann, Wevinger, Worm Gisela; Yılmaz; Zakostelsky.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e25335	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Schenk, fellow Members, on the anti-mobbing law. Whoever speaks for it, please give a sign. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. Vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dietrich, ladies and gentlemen, on ‘Higher penalties for tractors regulated in the Criminal Code’. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. Agenda item 11: Request by the Justice Committee to take note of its report 729 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Vote on agenda item 12: Request by the Justice Committee to take note of its report 730 of the supplements. Whoever is for this, please give a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Vote on agenda item 13: Request by the Justice Committee to take note of its report 731 of the supplements. Whoever speaks for it, please give a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[18:20:01]] Vote on agenda items 3 and 4
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e25421	We are now moving to the vote on Agenda items 3 and 4, which I make separately on each of the Committee's proposals. First we reach the vote on Agenda item 3, draft tax reform law 2015/2016 in 750 of the Supplements. For this purpose, the following additional or amendments shall be made: Amendment or amendment tabled by Mr Mag. Zakostelsky, Krainer, colleagues, Amendment or amendment tabled by Mr Mag. Rossmann, ladies and gentlemen, Amendment tabled by Mr Mag. Loacker, ladies and gentlemen, Amendment or amendment tabled by Mr Mag. Dr. Fuchs, ladies and gentlemen, on the request for separate votes and two votes in favour, As well as amendment tabled by the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Mr Kogler, ladies and gentlemen, there is also a request for a roll-call vote. First of all, I will have to vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary or amending proposals referred to above and on the request for separate votes, taking into account the aforementioned request for a roll-call vote and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Mag. Zakostelsky, Krainer, colleagues have an additional or amendment to Art. 1 Z 2 and Z 3 lit. d. Whoever is here, please give a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Deputies Mag. Loacker, ladies and gentlemen, have an amendment to Art. 1 Z 3 lit. b. Whoever is here, please give a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Whoever is here, please give a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Deputies Mag. Kogler, ladies and gentlemen, have an amendment to Art. 1 Z 4, Z 10 and Z 40 lit. b. The vote has been taken on this subject. As this request was made by 20 Members, this vote must be taken. The official voting papers shall be used. In accordance with Rules of Procedure, Members are called on and asked to put the votes in the votes cast. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the amendment tabled by Mr Kogler, Mr Kogler, Mr President, to vote in favour of the motion for a resolution. I now ask the writer, Mrs Lueger, to begin the call for name; Mr Gahr will replace them.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e25530	The vote will end. I interrupt the meeting for a few minutes for the counting of votes by the staff of the House under the supervision of the scribes.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e25567	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote: Members cast: 171; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 38, No votes: 133. The amendment tabled by the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Kogler, ladies and gentlemen, is therefore rejected. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Alm, Aslan; Brosz; Dietrich; Ertlschweiger; Glavischig-Piesczek; Hable, Hagen; Jarmer; cook, kogler, korun; Lighteneckers, lintls, loackers, lugars; Maurer, Meinl-Reisinger, Moser, Mückstein, Musiol; Reproducer; Pillow, Pirklhuber; Rossmann; Schelhorn, Schenk, Scherak, Schmid Julian, Steinbichler, Steinhauser, Strolz; Vavrik; Walser, refuser, Willi, Windbüchler-Sushill; Zinggl. Members voted with ‘No’: Amon, Angerer, Antoni, Aubauer, Auer, Bacher Walter, Becher Ruth, Belakovich-Jenewein, Berlakovich, Bösch, Buchmayr, Bures; Cap; Darabos, Darmann, Deimek, Diesner-Wais, Doppler, strike; Ecker, Ehmann, El Habbassi, Eßl, Fichtinger Klaus Uwe, Fekter, Fichtinger Angela, Franz, Fuchs; Gahr, Gerstl, Gessl-Ranftl, Greiner Karin, Grillitsch, Groiß, Grossmann, Gusenbauer-Jäger; Hafenecker, Hakel Elisabeth, Hammer Michael, Hanger Andreas, Haubner, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Himmelbauer, Höbart, Hofinger Manfred, Höfinger Johann, Holzinger, Huainigg, Hübner; Jank, Jannach, Jarolim; Karl, Karlsböck, Kassinger, Katzian, Keck, Kickl, Kirchgatterer, Kitzmüller, Knes, Königsberger-Ludwig, Kopf, Krainer Kai Jan, Krist, Kucharovich, Kucher, Kumpitsch, Kuntzl, Kuzdas; Lausch, Lipitsch, Lopatka, Lueger Angela; Matznetter, Mayer, Mölzer, Muchitsch, Mühlberghuber; Neubauer Werner; Obernosterer, kilnauer, ottenschlager; Pendl, Pfurtscheller, Plessl, Podgorschek, Preiner, Prince; Rädler, Rasinger, Rauch Walter, Riemer, Rosenkranz Barbara, Rosenkranz Walter; Schellenbacher, Schimanek, Schittenhelm, Schmid Gerhard, Schmid, Schmier, Schönegger, Schopf, Schrangl, Schultes, Sieber Norbert, Singer Johann, Spindelberger, Stefan, Steger, Steinacker, Strache, Strasser; Tamandl, Themessl, Girls, By; sub-railers; Vetter, Vogl; Weninger, Wimmer, Winter, tiny, Wittmann, Wevinger, Worm Gisela, Worm Peter; Yılmaz; Zakostelsky, singer.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e25753	We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report, taking account of the amendment tabled by the honourable Members. Zakostelsky, Krainer, colleagues on Rule 1 Z 10 lit. i and Z 40. Whoever is for this, please give a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall come to a separate vote on the supplementary amendment tabled by Mr Dr. Fuchs, colleagues, on the insertion of a new one. (b) in Article 1 Z 19 as well as in the resultant Litera territory. It has, in turn, been called for to vote. This is, of course, carried out. I am saving myself the explanation that I have read twice before. To carry out the vote: Please, those who vote in favour of Mr Fuch’s supplementary request, “Yes” vote, those who vote against to cast “No” vote in the urn. I ask the writing to perform the name call. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e25814	The vote will end. I am interrupting the vote-listing session. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e25848	Ladies and gentlemen, I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote: Members cast: 171; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 74, No votes: 97. Mr Fuchs, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. b in Art. 1 Z 19 is therefore rejected. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Alm, Angerer, Aslan, Belakovich-Jenewein, Bösch, Brosz; Darmann, Deimek, Dietrich, Doppler, Ertlschweiger; Fuchs; Glavischig-Piesczek; Hables, oats, hagens, hoebarts, moorings; Jannach, Jarmer; Karlsböck, Kassinger, Kickl, Kitzmüller, Köchl, Kogler, Korun, Kumpitsch; Lausch, Lichtenecker, Lintl, Loacker, Lugar Robert; Maurer, Meinl-Reisinger, Mölzer, Moser, Mückstein, Mühlberghuber, Musiol; Rebaur Kathrin, Neubauer Werner; Pilz, Pirklhuber, Podgorschek, Rauch Walter, Riemer, Rosenkranz Barbara, Rosenkranz Walter, Rossmann; Schellenbacher, Schellhorn, Scherak, Schimanek, Schmid Gerhard, Schmid Julian, Schrangl, Stefan, Steger, Steinbichler, Steinhauser, Strache, Strolz; themesl; Vavrik; Walser, Refusertorfer, Willi, Windbüchler-Sushill, Winter, Worm Peter; Singer, Zinggl. Members voted with ‘No’: Amon, Antoni, Aubauer, Auer, Bacher Walter, Becher Ruth, Berlakovich, Buchmayr, Bures; Cap; Darabos, Diesner Wais, perforation; Ecker, Ehmann, El Habbassi, Eßl, Fichtinger Klaus Uwe, Fekter, Fichtinger Angela, Franz; Gahr, Gerstl, Gessl-Ranftl, Greiner Karin, Grillitsch, Groiß, Grossmann, Gusenbauer-Jäger; Hakel Elisabeth, Hammer Michael, Hanger Andreas, Haubner, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Himmelbauer, Hofinger Manfred, Höfinger Johann, Holzinger, Huainigg; Jank, Jarolim; Karl, Katzian, Keck, Kirchgatterer, Knes, Königsberger-Ludwig, Kopf, Krainer Kai Jan, Krist, Kucharovich, Kucher, Kuntzl, Kuzdas; Lipitsch, Lopatka, Lueger Angela; Matznetter, Mayer, Obernosterer, kilnauer, ottenschlager; Pendl, Pfurtscheller, Plessl, Preiner, Prince; Rädler, Rasinger; Schieder, Schittenhelm, Schmuckenschlager, Schönegger, Schopf, Schultes, Sieber Norbert, Singer Johann, Spindelberger, Steinacker, Strasser; Tumandl, daughters, door; sub-railers; Vetter, Vogl; Weninger, Wimmer, tiny, Wittmann, Wevinger, Worm Gisela; Yılmaz; Zakostelsky.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e26037	We shall come to a separate vote on the amendment tabled by Mr Dr. Fuchs, colleagues, on Rule 1 c 19 lit. f. It has, in turn, been called for to vote. The procedure is known. I ask the writing to begin with the name call.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e26074	The vote will end. I am interrupting the sitting for the purpose of voting.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e26105	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. Members cast: 169; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 65, No votes: 104. The amendment tabled by Mr Dr. Fuchs, colleagues, on Art. 1 Z 19 lit. f is therefore rejected. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Angerer, Aslan; Belakovich-Jenewein, Bösch, Brosz; Darmann, Deimek, Dietrich, Doppler, Ertlschweiger; Fuchs; Glavischig-Piesczek; port plotters, oats, hoebarts, moorings; Jannach, Jarmer; Karlsböck, Kassinger, Kickl, Kitzmüller, Kogler, Korun, Kumpitsch; Lausch, Lichtenecker, Lintl, Lugar Robert; Maurer, mölzer, Moser, Mückstein, Mühlberghuber, Musiol; Rebaur Kathrin, Neubauer Werner; Pillow, Pirklhuber, Podgorschek; smoke Walter, Riemer, Rosary Barbara, Rosary Walter, Rossmann; Schellenbacher, Schenk, Schimanek, Schmid Gerhard, Schmid Julian, Schrangl, Stefan, Steger, Steinbichler, Steinhauser, Strache; themesl; Walser, Refusertorfer, Willi, Windbüchler-Sushill, Winter, Worm Peter; Singer, Zinggl. Members voted with ‘No’: Alm, Amon, Antoni, Aubauer, Auer, Bacher Walter, Becher Ruth, Berlakovich, Buchmayr, Bures; Cap; Darabos, Diesner Wais, perforation; Ecker, Ehmann, El Habbassi, Eßl, Fichtinger Klaus Uwe, Fekter, Fichtinger Angela, Franz; Gahr, Gerstl, Gessl-Ranftl, Greiner Karin, Grillitsch, Groiß, Grossmann, Gusenbauer-Jäger; Hable, Hakel Elisabeth, Hammer Michael, Hanger Andreas, Haubner, Hechtl, Heinzl, Hell, Himmelbauer, Hofinger Manfred, Höfinger Johann, Holzinger, Huainigg; Jank, Jarolim; Karl, Katzian, Keck, Kirchgatterer, Knes, Königsberger-Ludwig, Kopf, Krainer Kai Jan, Krist, Kucharovich, Kucher, Kuntzl, Kuzdas; Lipitsch, loacker, lopatka, lueger Angela; Matznetter, Mayer, Meinl-Reisinger, Muchich; Obernosterer, kilnauer, ottenschlager; Pendl, Pfurtscheller, Plessl, Preiner, Prince; Rädler, Rasinger; Schelhorn, Scherak, Schieder, Schittenhelm, Schmijdenschlager, Schönegger, Schultes, Sieber Norbert, Singer Johann, Spindelberger, Steinacker, Strasser, Strollz; Tumandl, daughters, door; sub-railers; Vavrik, Vetter, Vogl; Weninger, Wimmer, tiny, Wittmann, Wevinger, Worm Gisela; Yılmaz; Zakostelsky.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e26291	Deputies Mag. Rossmann, colleagues have an amendment to Art. 1 Z 19 lit. f. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. The vote on the motion for a resolution will be taken at the next voting time. 1 Z 19 lit. f of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. Who's calling for it? – This is accepted by the majority. Deputies Mag. Zakostelsky, Krainer, colleagues have an amendment to Art. 1 Z 20 introduced. Who agrees to this request? – This is the majority and therefore adopted. Deputies Mag. Loacker, ladies and gentlemen, have an amendment to Art. 1 Z 38. Who is in favour of this proposal? – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall vote on this part of the draft law as it stands in the Committee's report. Who's calling for it? – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the supplementary amendment tabled by Mr Dr. Fuchs, colleagues and colleagues concerning Art. 2 and the subsequent renumbering. – This is the minority. Rejected. Deputies Mag. Zakostelsky, Krainer, colleagues have an additional or amendment to Art. 2, Art. 3, 4, Art. 8 and Art. 14 Part 1 inserted. Whoever is in favour of this request, please give a sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Deputies Mag. Rossmann, colleagues and colleagues have tabled an additional proposal to insert a new Z 10a in Art. 14 Part 2 on the content. I ask for an acceptable sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. Deputies Mag. Zakostelsky, Krainer, colleagues and others have an additional or amendment concerning Art. Part 2 and Art. 14 Part Two. Whoever is for this, please give a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. Whoever speaks for it, please give a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall come to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who would like to give their assent to this draft law at third reading. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Zakostelsky, Krainer, Mag. Rossmann, colleagues on automatic consideration of child allowance and more user-friendly design of tax forms. Who agrees to this request? – This is accepted by a majority. (E 95.) [[The representatives of the Stronach team will sit first.]] [[Abg. Come on, go, go!]] [[The Members of this House are standing up.]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I'm sorry. I have already cleared the vote. [[Cheerfulness in the hall.]] We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Rossmann, colleagues and colleagues on the reintroduction of an inheritance and gift tax as well as a replacement tax on private foundations. [[Abg. Fekter: Do you want the SPÖ private foundations in Linz? What party has private foundations?]] Who's for it? – This is the minority. The application is rejected. vote on the motion for a resolution by Mrs Lichtenecker, colleagues, on the immediate evaluation of the research premium. Who's for it? – This is the minority. This request is rejected. Debates of the European Parliament Loacker, colleagues and colleagues on the merger of tax (family-related) transfers for the creation of incentives for employment. Whoever is for this, please give a sign. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. Debates of the European Parliament Zakostelsky, Krainer, colleagues on electronic transmission of donation data by donor organisations to the financial management for investment purposes. Who's calling for it? - That's the majority. The application is therefore accepted. (E 96.) We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 4: Request by the Financial Committee to take note of its report 755 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[18:52:52]] 14. Point Government Template: Federal Act amending the Copyright Act and the Exploitation Company Act 2006 (Copyright Novelle 2015 – Urh-Nov 2015) (687 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e26434	Now we come to the 14th. Agenda item. With regard to this government proposal, a period of up to 6 years was granted to the judicial committee. The report was published in the Official Journal of the European Union on 21 July 2015. Negotiations on this subject should therefore be included in this meeting. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e26471	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Yes, such federal laws can be very exhaustive for ministers – also in the field of justice. We have a law in front of us, and one could say: What lasts for a long time will at last not be good in the Austrian Parliament. This copyright-novelle, by the government parties by means of deadlines without committee advice in the truest sense of the word, is a bill that cannot be accepted with good conscience. I can explain this on a few points. First: I think that Mrs Steinacker, the chairman of the Committee on Justice, will speak again. I think it is very remarkable that we have today adopted an inheritance novel and that the President of the Justice Committee must ask a question to the Federal Minister of Justice at the time of Question Time to the Minister of Justice: What impact does this new right of inheritance have on Austrian citizens? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kitzmüller.]] I would inform myself of the impact of a law on the committee before. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is why we look at this law a little closer. It is a legitimate desire primarily for the art-makers, i.e. those who produce a work – but of course the scientists and others – that they do not know their rights and that they receive a corresponding remuneration for their creative performance. There was just this empty-case remuneration – an old instrument. If today, in some legislative terms, the speakers – especially the government parties – have spoken: Ah, we have laws that finally happened in the 21st century. Arrived century!, I can only say: This is not a law for the 21st century. For example, the terms “Cloud” and “Streaming” where copyright infringements are ongoing are not at all taken into account, but are about the storage media. I am already hearing the argument of the government parties in my spiritual ear: Yes, we have achieved a compromise that hurts both sides, namely: The artists do not get all they want and the economic operators, especially those who are in charge of these devices in trade, for these storage media, do not get what they want. That is therefore an ideal law. The only ones who can rejoice – or the only one who can rejoice – is the state itself, because with the economic impact there are: ‘In any event, excessive retroactive stress should be avoided.’ Now there are companies that have already said in response to court judgments: We make provisions, we make deposits for any cost. – This is to be avoided, i.e. the reserves are dissolved. Then where do they fall in? – In the operating profit, and therefore the state will take action. But if the artists are to do something for their achievements, then the whole thing is covered with 29 million. However, if these 29 million were to be added to the 3rd. To be reached on September, what happens to the rest of the money? – This, of course, also goes into the profit of the company, and therefore the state is also taking a nag with it. In reality, the economy and the artists are the losers, and the only winner is the Finance Minister with the budget. This is a state in which you can't really pass a law. What happens then, apart from the fact that you can even ask for something back – that is, those who then find the euros on their voucher, they can then ask the whole back retroactively. And if this border is exceeded? – I am now quoting the economic impact of the ministerial draft: “In the event of an identified breach of this volume, the general contracting parties are obliged to hold talks on new tariffs for the future.” That is to say, further dispute, further lawsuits, court proceedings. This is not the legal certainty that the parts of the contract, namely the economy and the artists, have expected. [[Abg. Deimek: Who's negotiating this?- Oh, my God!]] But no wonder: If you still have to go through a law without committee advice with deadline before the summer, you must not be surprised. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And what you still like as a standard subject to a law, these are very clear, certain concepts of law. I'm just reading: “The collecting society has to repay paid remunerations (...) to the last consumer”, and the facts that justify the claim are “to make credible”. But now only a basket from paragraph 42b, namely paragraph 8: ‘On its website, the collecting society shall offer an easy, understandable and easy way for the average user to assert the right of refund and to exempt from the obligation to pay, which shall enable effective enforcement and shall not entail excessive difficulties.’ We will need a Supreme Court decision for each of these terms.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e26535	Next, Mrs Mag. Steinacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e26556	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Dear Citizens! “Decisions require conflicts that need to be decided,” said Ludwig Erhard, a former German Federal Minister of the Economy – as true, Mr. Rosenkranz, as true! [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] To decide, this is our task as government parties. Creating rules for our citizens and legal certainty is also our task. [[Abg. Deimek: What about legal certainty? They're going to shop in Germany, that's embarrassing!]] The discussions on copyright on storage media remuneration have been a conflict that has lasted for more than ten years and where different interests have now been interfering for many years. We've made decisions. The economic operators and consumers wanted as little a burden as possible, as little compensation as possible for the storage of copyright-related plants on their storage media. The artists and cultural creators in our country demand the copyright remuneration and compensation for their achievements. Of course: These are two poles – one wants a lot, the other relatively little. We have decided: with the government template and the discussions we have conducted with all the parties involved, with the artists, the members of the Chamber, the economic operators, the collecting societies, the authors and the scientists. We have opted for this remuneration in the form of the storage media charge, because it is the fee for the allowed private copies. Now, mobile phones, hard drives and computers are subject to this remuneration obligation. A maximum of 6 per cent of the typical price level of these devices may be paid as a remuneration. [[Abg. Deimek: That’s to say, I’m now paying the Jelinek with my phone!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] Mr Rosenkranz has already discussed the issue of reimbursement, i.e. consumers who make it credible that they do not use this for the storage of works protected by copyright may demand reimbursement accordingly. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: These are the pensioners with the photo cameras!]] With €29 million, this is accordingly covered in the sense of the burdens of our citizens. As the second essential point, we have implemented a recast of the Cessio Legis in copyright. There are also two poles: on the one hand, the producers who want the rights of the films to get really good financing and to make sales efficient, on the other hand, the directors who accompany a film accordingly from the beginning to the end. We have opted for producers in this presumption, in case nothing else has been agreed by contract. Of course, the directors are free to agree with the producers. Only in the case that there is not, does the legal presumption take effect. We have regulated a second-use right for science and publishers, we also have an extended digital tele loans – that is, the free use of works for educational institutions in order to facilitate distance learning in particular. Ladies and gentlemen, you have known me for some time now. Of course, I am happy to have any discussion in the Committee on Justice. It was not up to me and not to the government parties that this bill was not discussed in the judicial committee, but NEOS wanted to repeat a hearing that had already been held in public debate. We had all done these things, unfortunately you did not agree to a discussion with the Federal Minister and the Legislators of his home. Therefore, we will be left with nothing other than to hold this discussion in the future, as well as on the issues of copyright law and collecting societies over the next year. As government parties, we bear responsibility because it is important to create legal certainty. Ladies and gentlemen, this novel supports all those people in our country who create intellectual property and bring us forward in culture, science, innovation and technology. At this point I can say a very good thank you to all those with whom I have had the many conversations over the last few weeks! It is a good compromise for artists, consumers, science and the economy. Copyright at least one step further into modern development, and we have achieved a high degree of legal certainty. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e26625	Next, Mr Magistrate. Dr. Zinggl speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e26643	Mr President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Let me begin with the most unpleasant deficit in the new copyright law: the lack of legal certainty. It is still not clear what is possible in the web and what violates the copyright law. I believe that you too, Minister, do not know that you must not spread Happy Birthday's singing free of charge via Facebook. I'm sure many of us don't know. But let us leave Facebook in this context. May Happy Birthday be sung at public school events? I asked for this in the morning really well-known copyright experts, who were not sure under the new law. Then how should a student or a student know? Modern copyright would have to provide clear and clear answers to such daily questions in order to ensure legal certainty. You, Mr. Justice Minister Brandstetter, point out at every opportunity – just recently in criminal law – that this legal certainty is one of the most important criteria for amending the law. I know that the debate on copyright and opinions go across all parties, so a new regulation would have been a classic matter for a self-confident Parliament. There has also been efforts by all parties, but they have been stopped. I think it was feared by the two ministries that it might have come to a consensual proposal, I say now, which could not have come from the ministries. Then, rather, this “crust” of a law that is passed very quickly with the shortest assessment period without hearings and without committee – quickly, so that there is not too much criticism so that the waves do not go up. The waves are still very high, as we know. Despite this short assessment period, there have been 99 experts who have consistently been critical and have pointed out problems we know – regardless of legal certainty. There is, for example, this lack of contract law. We and many others have always pointed out that such a thing as minimum standards for artists must be guaranteed, ensuring that the artists are not pulled over the table by the production companies and that the production companies do not dictate their conditions, as is usual today. Such contractual rights exist in many countries, only we do not continue. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mrs Steinacker, we will see to what extent your promises will actually be effective. It is very bad – Mr Rosenkranz has suggested it – the new film copyright. They simply assume that for the time being, film-makers will abandon their rights to the production companies. I would say that this is discrimination, especially directed. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: A gag!]] This has nothing to do with copyright strengthening. For example, you can't imagine that for the whole music area at all. But with the filmmakers, copyright is simply transferred to the producers. This means that not only does the director have no claim to the corresponding fees from the use of the films, but the film production companies can also process the film in terms of content or in any way. We have also tabled an amendment to that effect. I am convinced that if you decide on this law, it will be postponed at the latest by the ECJ and will have to be renegotiated, just as you are very sure – I have already heard this in the speech of Mr Steinacker – that the discussion on the copyright law and all the problems that have arisen has not ended, that everything will start again from the beginning and that the negotiations on this law have really been completed quickly and quickly. I don't want to say much about the hard drive charge. We know that most of this hard drive charge will migrate to the large production companies – the international large production companies. But in the face of increasing cloud and streaming services, the hard drive load is absolutely obsolete anyway. Col. Maria Fekter, cultural speaker of the ÖVP, has said very well that the hard drive charge is a relic from the past century. I don't think there's anything to add to it. No one is satisfied with it, not even some of the representatives of the government groups. You will nevertheless agree and the discussion will continue. What's the whole thing for? Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e26700	The said amendment was distributed in advance. It is sufficiently supported and is therefore involved in the negotiation. The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is also under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e26913	Next speaker: Mrs Hakel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e26935	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! After many years of discussions, numerous discussions and negotiations with all those involved on all sides – artists, consumers – we are now here and finally have the copyright novelle on the agenda. It is also clear, however, that this novelle can certainly only be an intermediate step and that the discussion on the adaptation of copyright to the Internet age will continue – and from my point of view, it must continue quite clearly. This can already be seen by looking at current discussions at EU level on panoramic freedom. By the way, I very much hope that it will come to a right decision and that this will be allowed throughout Europe. We will certainly act accordingly at EU level as a Socialist Group. To the Austrian novelle: I would like to start by mentioning a few positive points in this compromise – because nothing else is it. Firstly, the scope for exceptions from the author's rights is increasingly exploited in the fields of education and science. This means, for example, that educational institutions can increase their ability to build an intranet to facilitate distance learning, among other things. Overall, educational institutions should be able to make greater use of new technologies. Also the copy shipping of libraries to order is adapted to new technological conditions. Another important point is the right to quote, which is made language easier and more generous, so that in the future the quote is also allowed. I would also like to say a few words about the second publication right. This will give the author the right to make a contribution to the public once again after the first publication. The aim is to prevent results of scientific research funded mainly by public funds from being paid for a second time by the public authorities. This will also make research results accessible to a wider public. In addition, scientific authors have legal certainty if they want to publish their publications by means of open access. It is also important to set up an insignificant upgrade in accordance with the German model. Another contribution to the reduction of barriers is certainly the Marrakech Agreement, which facilitates access to works in accessible formats for the blind, the visually impaired or for other reasons. With mixed feelings I see the legal anchoring of the storage media charge. I admit quite frankly that I would have thought that other models of remuneration, such as a tax on internet access or a budgetary levy, would have been more forward-looking for consumers. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The fact is, however, that the hard drive levy has been abolished for years and is Europe-wide standard. There were also strong efforts by artists to finally implement them, so that I was convinced that the storage media burden is certainly only an intermediate step for now the most useful solution. But what was always important to me is to obtain the right to private copies for consumers. This is only possible under EU law if the authors get a fair balance for it. The clear and transparent rules for collecting societies were also an important point for me. I would like to stress that it is already the case that the money comes to the artists, that it is strictly controlled and that many artists do not know that they have to register with the collecting societies. The collecting societies draw attention to the fact that artists must first report themselves so that they can also come to their money. This has often been the case in the past, that artists have thus come to their right. In addition, I would like to mention that the amendment also states that in the future there will be a simple way of asserting a right of replacement or the exemption from the obligation to pay by collecting companies. For me, however, the largest drops of advertising in this novel is the section 38, the successor of the Cessio Legis. The film manufacturer is undoubtedly granted the exclusive right to use a film work on all types of usage. The German presumption system is transferred to Austrian copyright, but the copyright law is lacking in Austrian copyright law. But, hopefully, there is a binding commitment from all sides to work on a draft copyright law from autumn onwards. [[Abg. Zinggl: We have been demanding this for many years!]] Unfortunately, this presumption means that in the future the directors do not have to have a contract, but that it is suspected that in doubt the producer has all the rights. The producer is always the stronger. In this case, the directors are the weaker, as are other film owners, such as actors. This means that if a director wants to conclude a contract with a producer, he obviously does not face him at all. Not only I, but also many other lawyers have already criticized this in the review. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Don't agree!]] We can assume that there will certainly be a number of challenges and processes in order to clarify these questions in the future. We cannot speak of a clear legal certainty. We have tried to start discussions with the coalition partner in order to make at least a minimum change so that all film owners can get a good solution. This was unfortunately not possible – very sad.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e26994	Next, Mr Magistrate. Alm to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e27015	Mr President. Dear Members of the Government! In principle, there are some good new rules in this copyright-right novel: the extension of free use of work, the abolition of copyright registers, the right of second-hand exploitation for scientific work – however, with some critical remarks and restrictions, the colleague Maurer, I believe, will carry out in her amendment. Not gratifying, as Mr Hakel and Mr Zinggl have mentioned, is the successor of the Cessio Legis. We brought the SPÖ a small offer if it might want to become a bit of a coalition break. We have a amendment that takes into account the directors and that, because it is not long enough, could not be distributed – so I have to read it. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] So much on this point. There are also improvements for the collecting societies, but for a very sad occasion, namely the storage media remuneration, which has already been addressed. From our point of view, the tax on hard disks is a lasting damage to the authors. I am aware of her efforts, Mr Jarolim, Mr Hakel and Mr Steinacker, to find a compromise. However, it is a compromise that is simply not a basic solution and that needs to be rejected for reasons of principle. Reason one: With the hard drive load, you go past the real problem. The storage media charge assumes that the volume of privately copied works has remained the same over the years, but that it happens at the collection, because the empty cassette remuneration no longer takes effect. With this finte, the actual facts are simply and simply concealed, namely that the private copy dies and is simply no longer made. We stream nowadays, we use Netflix, Spotify, YouTube, iTunes, whatever, and the private copy falls for this reason and for the reason that there are many other licensing models that do not lead to a private copy no longer. This is one of me now, I would say, probably justified suspicion, because there is no study. We have repeatedly called for such a study in the run-up to these negotiations, but there is no one. The second fundamental reason: It's really a tedious opportunity for authors. One could have agreed at this point on a regulation which is also useful in terms of the volume of private copy remuneration. We are talking here about an economic order of around €20 million, which would certainly have been able to find a better solution, such as a price reduction for those who place a presentation on the market, or a copyright discount, or a regulation to reduce the turnover tax on such maritime goods. – All these are just proposals, but they have never been discussed. The basic reasons are sufficient to reject this storage compensation, but there are still a few reasons why the concrete regulation is simply wrong. First of all, the hard drive charge is anything but perfect and just. Earlier, on the empty cassette, practically only material was landed, which could actually be fed to this private copy remuneration. Now there are digital storage media where everything lands on them possible, and not necessarily just affordable material. Become on SD cards of photo cameras You can hardly find private copies, but all these media are charged. This is not a sound, responsible solution. Secondly, it would be possible to purchase it if this levy were not so high. We speak here of 20 € – plus/minus – on storage media, which is really a lot of money. If a household buys several devices over one or two years, then we are in a dimension of 100 € or more. [[Abg. Steinhauser: This is economically hostile!]] Maybe, yes! [[call to the FPÖ.]] If you deliberately purchase these collateral damage, such a charge would at best be reasonable if it were only to be paid at a bagatel height, but that is not the case at just 20 € per storage medium. Finally, the hard drive charge is also a hidden tax. We are talking here about a cover of € 29 million per year, but these € 29 million are additionally charged with a sales tax. This means that up to €5.8 million of pre-tax deduction will not be taken into account for the Minister of Finance. This too is something that should not remain unmentioned. In summary, the storage volume is really a big mistake. It solves only superficially and in the short term the problem for the authors in the form of a decline in revenue, it conceals the real problem. It has been a sensible new system for the long term, it is a hidden tax that also meets innocent people with great accuracy, and consumers will also feel justified by this tax to copy everything from any still so questionable source, because they pay for it. In the end, the disk load will lead to an increasing weakening of the awareness of copyrighted services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e27093	The amendment is sufficiently supported, properly introduced and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e27160	Mr Brandstetter, Federal Minister, spoke on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e27181	Mr President. Only a few comments on this draft law. The starting point, which cannot be emphasized often enough, is the law of the European Union, which explicitly states that the private reproduction of foreign works must not be possible without fair compensation in favour of the authors. Our Supreme Court has also repeatedly confirmed this. It's about rights that the authors who have artists have. That's why it's about, and not about, any tax that's even hidden in the end; that's not true. If this remuneration claim flows, it is a turnover. Why should it not lead to a turnover tax? This is not about a tax, but about the remuneration provided by European law in favour of the authors of artistic works. [[Abg. Zinggl: What does it look like?]] This could be covered in some way in the past with this empty cassette remuneration. Of course, it doesn't touch anymore, it's clear, because there's hardly any such empty tapes. So what was closer from the principle than the transmission of the mechanical storage media, says: Empty tapes, on the digital storage media, in the form of a new product-related charge to cover these remuneration claims through the collecting societies? That is the basic principle. I say quite frankly to you that we are dealing with a complicated system, it is a brittle matter, but I had the opportunity two weeks ago to discuss this subject in detail with my German counterpart, which was very instructive and very interesting, because the Germans are also facing a change in their copyright. And it turned out that he told me: Yes, we have also considered many models, including budget taxes and the like, but in the end we know that there is no better, really effective model at present to ensure what it is all about, namely to guarantee the remuneration of authors accordingly. - That's how I see it here with us. It is certainly a model where you can theoretically imagine better and more ideal variants, but none that can really be implemented quickly and which actually do what we need now. It is a compromise that is intended to take account of all those concerned, and everyone concerned is not really satisfied – yes, this is the case with a compromise – but one can do this: He builds on what we have had so far, and he makes sure that these claims can be really covered and satisfied by the collecting societies. In this way, I believe that this law is better than no one at all, but – and I would like to say that too – if someone thought of a better model, I would be grateful and would like to take it up, but no one has thought anything better, there is no better model across Europe that would really work. [[Abg. Steinhauser: (in the direction of Abg. Zinggl) Not at all!]] No, that's not a really better model, either, but maybe we'll find one in the future, which I don't even want to put in agreement. Finally, it is clear that this issue is subject to very rapid changes due to technical development, no question, I am also aware of that. And this issue is not going to be solved insofar as we also have a directive on collecting societies to implement. Of course, it has already been mentioned that we have also implemented the new rules on copyright law provided for in the government programme. We will also consider this, of course, there will also be an appropriate evaluation. So I'm not saying what we can do now is currently the best possible, but in the future I may also be able to imagine an ideal solution, only at the moment I don't really see it, at least not so that you can implement it in a functional way. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] Forget Please do not: We have also included in this draft some things that, I think, are worth mentioning: We have expanded the free use of work for scientific and educational institutions, schools, universities, which makes absolutely sense. We have also expanded the free use of labour for people with disabilities. We have introduced the second right of exploitation for scientific authors. As far as this so-called Cessio Legis is concerned, I do not really understand the excitement about it, because it is a question of dispositive right to private autonomy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Zinggl.]] It is totally unacceptable for the contracting parties to agree on what they want. If the directors want to have more rights, they can certainly enforce this in the normal way of contract design, it remains dispositive law. In your proposal, too, you are, I assume, and I also hope that you do not go that far as to propose binding law. These are areas where private autonomy is meant to leave its scope, which is also good. That is why I see no reason at all for the fact that we should now necessarily put in place some regulations in this area which, in the end, hinder the free contractual design of those concerned. That wouldn't make any sense. That is why I really believe that this law may not bring about the legal certainty that no one has really achieved in this sparse area across Europe, but it brings more legal certainty. You can never have enough of legal certainty, and this law brings more legal certainty than none at all. Therefore, I believe that it is the best solution at this time and that this law makes sense as well. I therefore call for the appropriate support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e27252	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Dr. Fekter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e27274	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mr State Secretary! As with the copyright novels in the mid-1990s – I was lucky to be there – and at the beginning of the 2000s – I was there too – there were almost unbridged, conflicting interests this time too. I would like to thank you here from the speaker's desk at the opposition parties for the constructive cooperation in the run-up. We have received several suggestions. At the same time, however, I apologize to the opposition parties involved in these talks that we did not continue the talks with the opposition at the parliamentary level before the government template. Mr Zinggl, you know it was also difficult to reach a uniform position within the EIA and find the government position for a novel. However, we have included a few good things in the novel, such as the second right of exploitation for scientific contributions. We have clarified rights for schools, universities and educational institutions, especially in the sense of free use of labour. We now have better definitions in the law, it is also much more legible in terms of rights of protection, and above all we have achieved better quotations for broadcasting. However, the difficult issues were the Cessio Legis on the one hand, since I must say that I expressly welcome them as they are currently formulated in the law. In fact, it is normized, that is, the parties can make up for it, they do nothing, there is a legal presumption. Of course, I know the wishes of the filmmakers that they want to have more rights in the law, but this hinders the exploitation of the films. It is useful for the film maker at the most common when we produce many films and they are well usable. That's how we built up a great location. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Austria is an internationally recognized film location, also because the law is so clearly regulated that the films can be used afterwards. The fact that I have no pleasure with the storage media charge is known. However, I nevertheless agree with the fact that, on the one hand, old burdens between trading and collecting societies are solved, which were significant, and on the other hand, clear rules bring the negotiators into a corset that I consider to be manageable. For me personally, the percentages – 6 percent, 11 percent – are far too high. It can easily happen that, as Mr Rosenkranz has done, the lid has already been reached in September, and then the bureaucratic procedure is something that is not so easy to achieve in terms of reimbursement. But, my venerations Ladies and gentlemen, I expressly welcome the fact that transparency for collecting societies has been implemented – specifically that the directive has been preceded – and we now have better transparency obligations for collecting societies. However, the implementation of directives by spring 2016 will have to bring even clearer minimum standards for copyright contracts for collecting societies, especially with regard to consumer protection and the question of: How are the “little” artists doing with their supremacy in the collecting society? – You will have to discuss this too. Copyright law will be the next major challenge in this regard. [[Abg. Moser: The artist's train ours!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e27319	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Schrangl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e27341	Mr President. Dear Members on the Government Bank! High house! Imagine, you borrow a car from a car dealer, are very short incompetent and put a scratch in the paint. An expert then determines the amount of damage, you or your insurance plan to pay the amount, but the car dealer says: No, that's far too low, that's not a contribution to my life assurance, that's not a fair reward for my work! – You are irritated, you are rightly irritated. The government is also doing exactly the same with the hard drive charge. [[Abg. Lugar: Where is the quote? That's not a quote, dear friend!]] –Yes, thank you very much, it’s not quite right, but I took it out of the “standard”. For predators – and now it comes, Mr. Cot! – you have to pay compensation. [[Abg. Lugar: Exactly!]] Yeah, right, and that's why you have to mention where you got it from. Thank you very much. The government parties have, in any case, chosen the lightest way and ignore this harmful nature of the hard drive. [[Abg. Fekter: No, that's wrong, predators aren't paid off with that, but the legal ones!]] – Yes, that is true, but that is also a compensation and not a mass tax. [[Abg. Fekter: He doesn't know!]] However, I do not want a mass tax on the back of the Austrians, I do not want to put the Austrians under general suspicion. 11 per cent, as you have said, Mrs Colleague: For a telephone with 128 gigabytes and a price of about € 1,000 at the moment, this charge alone is over €100. No one wins with it, but loses the domestic economy. Mobile phones, hard drives are easy to obtain abroad and in the Internet shipping trade, so Austrian trade and its employees will lose. Mr Brandstetter said first that there will be no more law that will last 200 years. However, for a few years it should last at least and not be a day fly, one forgets technical reorganisations such as streaming and cloud.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e27415	The next item is the speech by Mr Jarolim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e27436	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! I think we are talking here about a solution that will be completed for the duration of three years, and we are talking about that we want to bring a quick solution to artists who are certainly not among the great earners, namely those we are looking at here. In this respect, I can do so with Mr Fekter's succinct speech and also with reference to the qualities that we have incorporated into the law. Of course, it's the closest thing that if you're building a new system, you're oriented towards what's already there, and you're developing it a little bit further. That's what we did here. This also made it possible to find a quick solution. And whoever helps quickly helps better. [[Abg. Deimek: Three years, that hurts! That means helping with the SPÖ!]] Of course, it is not the yellow of the egg, you can always think about how you can be even more effective, how you can always anticipate technical developments. Unfortunately, this has not been successful, and I think it will not be so easily successful either. We are now discussing it within the political groups – I do not know how you are doing – in any case extremely controversial, since the most diverse aspects are already covered in each group. If we have two parties, it is not very easy, but we do not have two parties, but perhaps ten or twelve who are trying to balance all their interests. This, of course, leads to the fact that you already have to look at the facts in a very, very complex form alone, in order to realize at all what it really is to be put under a hat. Considered in this light, it is, I believe, a good solution. We have already said in the deadline that the wailing is about the same size everywhere, which is usually a sign that the comparison is not the worst. I think the glass is half full and not half empty. In order to take a small step which is still an improvement – I would like to thank my colleague, Mr Steinacker, and all the others who have contributed to it – I must make one more request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I believe that we are going to reassess how important it is to us that what we accept actually occurs, and if not that is re-adjusted. In this sense, I believe that we are taking a step in the right direction. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e27488	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e27533	Next speaker: Mrs Maurer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e27555	Mr President. Dear Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! There is a part in this law that would have to be considered as progressive in terms of science, an open-access measure. Open Access is the key to making publicly funded research available to the public as well. This draft law provides for the second-use right for the first time. This means that scientists have the right to provide articles already published, for example, on their homepage or students. That was the background. Mr Brandstetter, we discussed this once a year ago at an appointment. Unfortunately, however, this § 37a, as you propose it, can hardly actually be effective; You act as if you were supporting the opening of science. But if you look more closely at the section, you can see – and that was contained in all opinions, in all the assessments of universities, by the Ministry of Science and so on – that this has not been changed. This section acts as if it were doing something for the scientists, but in fact it is a section that makes it as difficult for scientists to make use of this right as possible. For this reason, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is a very long sentence, I would like to justify it more precisely. You see in this section that this right is restricted to members of the scientific staff. This means that grant holders, doctoral candidates without a job relationship and scientists with a free service contract or contract of work are in principle already excluded. – This is absurd, because the right is probably due to the public funding of research work, not from belonging to a particular group of persons. Secondly, it should only apply to research by at least half publicly funded research institutions, but not from at least half of the research projects financed by public funds. – The difference is that this formulation excludes, for example, private universities or other privately funded research institutions. If they recruit public funds, these scientists do not have the right. Limit further Enter the right to at least twice-periodical works – collections, you say. This means that all notes, anniversary writings, volumes and so on would be excluded. These monographs, however, represent a very important part of scientific work. Then you have the limitation inside that contributions may be seconded after 12 months. But this is a much too long time in the natural sciences, medicine and technology. Until then, the results of this science have been overtaken many times. The real purpose, namely open access to research results, is not fulfilled to the extent that it would be necessary. Finally, the most important point from my point of view, which is done wrong: I have tried in advance to achieve a joint change with the two government parties. That was not possible, and I have also been told that it is simply not desirable. In this section, you can see that the accepted manuscript version may be second published. This means, of course, that the number of pages in the Word document I send to the publisher, with my one and a half line spacing formattings, does not correspond to that number of pages that will be in the original publication, because that will be lay- Automated and graphics are inserted. Editorial changes may also be made. That means I can only publish my Word document or Office document almost second. This means that scientific usability is simply impossible with an accepted manuscript version. That's why I have to say, it's nice that you've now taken this in, but actually that's a section that won't really be useful for scientists, because it's a lot of restrictions. In fact, this right can be used as little as possible. It's, I think, a little bit of a fake action from you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e27656	The amendment is sufficiently supported, properly introduced and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e27747	Mr Ostermayer spoke on a point of view. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e27769	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to express my concern to Mr Zinggl because he said that we were afraid that a consensusal proposal would come from Parliament. – You don’t have to have this worry. If you are able to achieve a consensusal proposal from Parliament, which also creates the interests of those involved, i.e. the artist, the consumer, the economy – I can say that on behalf of my colleague Wolfgang Brandstetter and on my behalf – we are happy to be ready. You have, I think, if I have read it properly, in two days her 11th anniversary here. It would have been a lot of time to bring about a consensus. I just know that this has been a highly controversial issue for years, is a very controversial issue and we started a year and a half ago to see if we can find a solution in this controversial area. What is it all about? – We hope all of us agree that spiritual benefits have a value that one has the right to receive a remuneration for spiritual benefits. Then only the question arises: How can one connect the complex system of a creative person who does something – artistic, spiritual, scientific – with the consumers of this performance? Now there are different variants: A variant that was always put in the room was a connection to the GIS, for example. Another proposal was to link to a broadband levy or an Internet connection charge. The third variant we have chosen is that we do what most European countries do, namely to connect to the storage medium and thus to continue what we have already had in the past with the empty-case remuneration, which is also in line with the current state of the Judicatur. That this is a complex issue, in which the balance of interests is not quite as simple, we have been totally aware. The fact that this is not a solution that will last forever has always made us aware of the technical development. Nevertheless, we have decided not to continue to keep artists from holding back their justified remuneration from taking this step. A second point: We also discussed the various variants with those concerned. For example, the question of connecting to GIS in the event of broadband charges, but also the question of how to connect to GIS. When we talk about that many pay a fee for something that few produce, then you can always evade it and say it's a mass tax. In any case, it is no matter what model you choose. The point was only that all those artists and representatives of artists and collecting societies and so on, with whom we both have conducted an intensive dialogue, said they want to pay a fee for their performance, a link to an economic process and no form of alimentation, even no form of mäzenatism. I have also repeatedly talked with my colleagues, culture ministers, culture ministers, when I met with them, about how they solved this issue. I can tell you – I am not quite sure now, but I think it is so many – 23 countries of the European Union have chosen this solution. I am also aware that there was a desire on the part of the artists to agree on a higher amount to raise the lid. I have tried to explain that this is what we are doing in the compromise with a majority in Parliament. That is why we have talked to each other, and the Members have then tabled this motion for a resolution that we want to evaluate the amount after a full financial year in order to see whether the amounts we have adopted are adequate for the turnover in this area. I would like to take the opportunity to thank all those who have participated in these many discussions, to try to contribute to a solution in an unsolved matter for years. I would like to express my full thanks to the Minister for Justice for this wonderful cooperation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e27839	Mrs Himmelbauer is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e27860	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! In short, Mr Maurer's second right to recovery. We talked about it too. There are still concerns on our part as to how far this goes. However, we have already said before that it is part of the copyright law and that we can also take this into account in the later discussion. - So much for it. However, I would like to use my short time on the subject of storage media compensation, i.e. the remuneration of private copies, because I share these concerns that have now been raised in many places with regard to the future capacity of this solution. User behaviour changes – whether it's music or movies, series or books. For the most part, what is already digital is licensed or used via streaming offers; legal possibilities that exclude private copies or restrict them by payment, on how many devices I can use them at all. You also have to see it differentiated. I don't think we can talk about the fact that a private copy itself does not work out. That's what's going on. It is not true that 100 percent of the market is not. It's probably also a generation question, but if you look at the 2014 music market figures, then you see exactly the trend in this digital direction, going in the streaming direction. But there were still 46 percent of physical carriers in 2014. We have already heard it, if there is the right to private copy, then it must also be paid. I think this is undisputed here in the house. I could now also kindly ask Mr Ostermayer to pay for this from his budget, which he will probably not do. Nevertheless, my wish would have been that there should be a common way between workers, rights holders and users. I think there are still very attractive, sympathetic solutions here in the room that need to be looked more closely – and more precisely, because there are still open questions regarding the amount of the delivery or the technical implementation. Mr Brandstetter showed himself very openly in the discussion, but had to create legal certainty due to his legal competence. Mr Ostermayer, you said that you also discussed alternatives in advance. I hope you continue to do so. Excuse me, I am quite a bit pessimistic in the direction – unlike Mr Hakel – that, although the decision is taken today, we must have an outdated model for a very long time. I am still ready for discussions when there are alternatives and we are preparing the way for a modern model.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e27919	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e27940	Ladies and gentlemen! If you look at the empty cassette charge and compare it with the charge now planned, you can see one thing quite clearly: The empty file charge was sensible and necessary. Many may still remember sitting with the tape recorder at the radio and waiting for the favorite music to come, and then pressing the recording buttons to get to the pleasure of the favorite music on cassettes, without paying anything for it. I, too, did this in my youth, then put it in the walkman and I enjoyed it. That was, of course, useful. Why? - Because there's been a damage. A damage has arisen to the authors. The authors sent these pieces, for which they were naturally rewarded. But I took advantage of it without paying for it. That was perfectly meaningful. Today, however, the situation looks different, because if I download a piece of music legally over the Internet today, I already pay for this piece of music. And if I save this piece of music – otherwise it won't work – on my hard drive on my computer, I'll pay again. That means I paid twice. But on the computer, I don't start much. I want to hear it in the car, or Otherwise, so I need to save it back to an external disk. And then I'll pay back on your model. That's the problem! The problem is that there is no damage to the artists, but, quite the contrary, to me as the consumer of the damage, I have the damage. So, what, for heaven's sake, do you want to leave here in accordance with EU law? – There is no damage here. Even if I buy a CD for which I paid again, and then because I don't want to walk in the car a hundred CDs, save it to an SD card, and then have it in the car – and that goes with the modern cars – more clearly and better order, no damage either. Or do you think I'd buy a second CD if I couldn't? - I wouldn't do that. That is, if I try to change the format so that it fits better for the playback devices, then no damage is done either. It doesn't have to be paid for either. We are not yet talking about the hundreds, thousands of Austrians who, for example, buy a cell phone for which they have to pay €20 more, and this mobile phone never sees music or anything else, because many Austrians just use the phone for calling; and yet this charge is on it. Or if someone buys a computer and needs it mainly for word processing and a bit of internet surfing, this charge on this device is also. That's the problem! That means, in fact, this is an extra tax that will be collected. It's not about artists at all. It's not about getting the artists paid for anything, because they don't have any damage. Where's the damage? Explain this to me! Where's the damage? – There is no harm in all of the things I've listed now. If you want to do something about using illegal copies to cover, as it were, illegal copies, then it is against EU law; that is what the EU does not want! There are other mechanisms to combat illegal activities. But when it comes to legal streaming, when it comes to legal copies, it's covered, then there's no damage either. And if these collecting societies, which are sometimes very questionable from my point of view, because they use a lot of money for themselves, want more money and come to you, Mr Ostermayer, and then ask for it from you, then it may be that they would like more money. That's no question, of course, the empty cassettes come in less. But it's something else that you'll ride out and ask the taxpayer back to the cash desk. This is, as it were, the side of the medal. If you already want to do something for the artists, then raise this charge to the original and not to the storage media, because you do not know what to store on it. For example, I have at home a huge memory, there are only vacation pictures, photos of my children and other pictures on it. There's no single piece of music on it at all. And yet I have to pay. If you already want to do something, then charge taxes on the original, because only the original can be copied, perhaps even illegal. You could actually do something, and that would be fair. But don't make any extra- tax for all Austrians who are already taxed more than enough on taxes and taxes because of your government work!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e28025	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law in 687 of the Supplements. The following applications have been submitted: A motion for an amendment by Mr Maurer, ladies and gentlemen, an amendment or amendment tabled by the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Dr Zinggl, colleagues and an additional or amendment tabled by Mr Mag. Alm, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I will vote on the parts concerned by these supplementary or amending proposals, in accordance with the classification of the draft law, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted on. Mr Maurer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, tabled an amendment on Article 1(1). Whoever is here, please give a sign. – That is rejected. We shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law as it stands. I would like to ask those Members of the House who give their approval to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Deputies Mag. Dr. Mr Zinggl, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an amendment which includes the amendment to point 3 of Article 1. Whoever stands for it, please give a sign in this regard. – That is rejected. Deputies Mag. Alm, ladies and gentlemen, also tabled an amendment to Article 1(3). I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this amendment to give an appropriate sign. – That is rejected. We shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law as it stands. I ask those Members of the House who give their approval to a positive sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Deputies Mag. Dr. Zinggl, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an additional proposal concerning the inclusion of new points 3a to 3d in Article 1. Whoever speaks in favour of this supplementary request, I would like to ask for a corresponding sign. – That is rejected. Deputies Mag. Alm, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an additional proposal concerning the insertion of a new point 3a in Article 1. Whoever is here, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – That is rejected. Deputies Mag. Dr Zinggl, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment concerning Article 1(27). I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are here. – That is rejected. We shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law as it stands. I ask those Members of the House who give their consent to a sign of confirmation. – This is accepted by the majority. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the draft government proposal. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a sign in this regard. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now come to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Zinggl, ladies and gentlemen, on copyright law. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of this motion for a resolution, are a sign of approval. – That is rejected. We shall also proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Members. Steinacker, Dr. Jarolim, colleagues in the evaluation of the indicative value. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is accepted by the majority. (E 97.) [[20:05:07]] 15. Point Report of the Committee on Justice on the Government template (490, B.C.E._Other Organiser Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Federal Republic of Brazil on extradition (719 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e28171	We're coming to the 15th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e28198	God, Mr President! Mr. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! When Amerigo Vespucci entered Brazilian soil around 1500, he said: If there is a paradise on earth, it can not be far from here! – This is not just what many holidaymakers think, but also people who have been on the run. One of the most famous Austrians who fled to Brazil – better to say, who had to flee to Brazil – was Stefan Zweig, who left us not only “The World of Yesterday” but also this booklet “Brazil. [[the speaker keeps the book up to date]] A country of the future’. The fact that Brazil is a country of the future has also been thought by some Austrians in the Second Republic who have been in conflict with the law. The Names of the Both famous or most famous Austrians, who fled to Brazil at the end of the last millennium in the nineties, both began with the letters “R”, one I call “Ry” and the other “Ro”. "Ro" was a simple cheater. What does “simpleer ” mean? – He has been sentenced to over 50 million schilling for commercial fraud, while Mr. “Ry” has already done a much greater damage, namely, in his own words, over €5 billion. This probably corresponds merely by chance exactly to the volume of the tax reform that we have decided today. The former found himself in extradition detention for over a year, the second over four years. Finally, both have been condemned. However, the second one, which constructed a network of companies and thus committed tax fraud, could not be condemned in Austria for this tax fraud because it was a fiscal offence. At that time, it was only possible to deliver it to reciprocity. With this deficit, or with this gap, we are remedied by the extradition agreement that we are deciding on today. It is not only for reciprocity, but also for fiscal offences, that is also because of the offence, for which Mr. “Ry” could not ultimately be condemned in Austria. This agreement, of course, follows the extradition agreement, which we have concluded otherwise. It consists essentially of three sections: the condition for extradition, procedural matters and final provisions. Essentially in terms of the conditions, I have already said, is that fiscal offences are also included. I would like to stress in the procedural provisions that it no longer requires exclusively diplomatic transport, that we do not need certifications for everything, but that the simple way is also provided, in particular electronic transport is also possible. All in all, it should shorten extradition, and thus we actually have a Win-win-win situation. The requested State must spend less money on extradition detention. The requesting State will quickly come to legal proceedings, criminal proceedings and execution, but the extradition itself does not have to wait so long until it receives its trial. That is why we fully agree to this agreement! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e28258	The next honourable Member is Mr Magistrate. Dr. Feichtinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e28280	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! In the context of the debates on the judiciary, in which we have already adopted today a law on inheritance law, of which each and every one of us will be affected at some point, we are going back to the area of criminal law. I am not going to take back as far as Mr Vetter is concerned, but I am also going to give a few examples. Ronnie Biggs was a member of the British band of robbers. In 1965 he fled to Brazil. He was known to have been able to withdraw from detention there for decades and eventually returned voluntarily. He was probably the most internationally known example. The case that was most known in Austria concerned Peter R., I would like to call him so, Mr Vetter has not fully quoted the name either. [[Abg. Fekter: It was a colleague from Parliament!]] [[Call the ÖVP:Rosenstingl! Member of the Blues!]] The name was already mentioned several times in the calls. The further course of the case may thus be assumed to be known. Mr Vetter has already carried out comprehensively, which includes the extradition agreement. The legal basis that we have with it is precisely what we need in times of simple, international travel movements in order to open up more extensive opportunities for Austrian law enforcement authorities to become the people who have gone to Brazil. The Federal Minister called them so beautiful in the committee as “spitzbuben and Spitzbubinn” who want to withdraw from Austrian law enforcement. The extraditions will now be put on a contractual basis and the agreement will be put into force in order to simplify and speed up the implementation of the extradition procedures. The Committee on Justice has already unanimously agreed to the conclusion of this agreement and we therefore request broad approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e28329	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We are now voting on the request of the Committee on Justice, the conclusion of the State Treaty in 490 of the Supplements in accordance with Article 50(1). 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. [[President Hofer is waiting until Abg. Wenninger's up.]] – It is now unanimously adopted. [[20:12:21]] 16. Point Report of the Committee on Justice on the Government Template (501 d.a._Other Organiser Declaration on the withdrawal of Austrian reservations on Art. 13, 15 and 17 as well as the explanations on Art. 38 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child (720 e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e28378	We're coming to the 16th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Rosenkranz has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e28405	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Of course, it can be thought that this is a side-by-side exhibition, but on the other hand it is very attractive, because it is a piece of politics that is so significant what one can consider to be the misery of a bourgeois party, which is still called a family party. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What's this about? – In 1992, the Republic of Austria ratified the Convention on Children’s Rights, and at that time a reservation was filed against three paragraphs, three articles – 13, 15, 17. Articles 13 and 17 concern the right of children – we speak of children, well-known – to consulate printing works and thus also new media fully, Article 15 assures children the right to gather freely and to join together. The reservation was lodged because at the time a majority was clear that it was in the interest of the parents, and not only in the interest of the parents, but that it could be the duty of the parents to intervene if there is a risk that the consumption of printing works or media – pornography, for example, would justify, and also require, violent representations – or also a certain approach – to the environment of drugs. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There have, of course, already been groups in the past who have spoken against these reservations from their point of view. According to a very clear ideological tradition, the family sees less than autonomous unity than under general suspicion and thus represents a model of society: here the collective, the state, and there the individuals. That is correct from their point of view. Of course, we see this completely different. For us, the family is a unit on which the state is founded, which is also preceded by the state. State intervention is justified only if the family fails and the child's well-being is at risk. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We believe that this Child Law Convention with these reservations was a good thing. These reservations were reasonable in 1992 and are still valid today. And now, of course, I'm wondering: Why are you taking away from it now? The explanatory statement was very elegant, and you or your minister – the family minister was that – refer to the evolutionary and dynamic character of human rights. That's really interesting now! I would now like to take a brief look at the concept. What is that supposed to mean? – Does that mean that you were already aware, at the beginning of the ratification of the Convention, of the fact that you are doing this once, that is, the critics, especially in your ranks, who have just made these reservations, calm down with the introduction of a reservation and then sometime the reservations are losing their justification, their sense, and then you do what you do today, namely that you delete it? [[towards ÖVP]] Or is this a follow-up justification, so not a conscious strategy, but you have to do something right now so that you can explain what this swivel is supposed to justify? Both are bad, and both show – and this is the wrong thing about it – a constant of your policy. They presented this to the reproductive medicine law. They lead us to child care, to freedom of choice. We see this and fear where it will end, namely as regards the issue of rights of marriage and adoption. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And now I dare to please you, a diagnosis: Why is that so? - You have a trauma. Sometime around 1968, when you had to get to the idea that your positions were outdated and no longer majority-able. Of course, you can react to this in different ways. [[Abg. Schönegger: Are you a psychologist?]] One could draw on its foundations, reflect on its principles, remove the spirit of time, and try to formulate these principles in a contemporary way, re-enter them, and shape the spirit of time. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Lopatka: That's what we do!]] But what you've done is completely different: They simply and simply, some murmuring, some reluctant, some no matter what, let themselves be driven in a certain direction by the spirit of time that others have influenced. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And then at the end, when it was as far as it is now admittedly in a somewhat peripheral point – but we have already had very important points – you have forgotten and suppressed this process. What's coming next, and I'm actually afraid where that's going to be – there's always nice titles, there's something quite wonderful about children's right-wing convention, so you'll have to figure out what can be behind it – the sexual pedagogy of diversity. This is next, and we already see how important it is to make it clear that parental rights are valid, because what we already hear from this page is: [[towards SPÖ]] If parents are so corrupt, don't get involved with modern circumstances and stand in the way of a liberal society, you have to do so against parents! I have already read such articles, and they have already been said in the Committee. It would be really high in time for you to get together! Until then, we are represented by the FPÖ alone the position of the families.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e28507	The next honourable Member is Mr Magistrate. Nice to meet you. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e28529	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Free Party, in particular! A question might be: Let the honourable Mrs Rosenkranz speak more often, because then she does not have to pack everything she thinks about the subject. This has not suited everything you have said now. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Darmann: Did it hurt to look in the mirror?]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the excitement is not appropriate. I think we all agree that children are the weakest member of society. And every sort of reasonable and somewhat developed society has everything to do to protect this weakest member of society. That is indisputable, and that is not a question at all. [[Abg. Hoebart: That was a bubble now!]] However, the assumption that, due to these reservations, which we then submitted to the Convention on Children's Rights, the situation of the children in Austria would be better or vice versa by disbanding these reservations and the withdrawal of these reservations would be worse the situation of the children in Austria is simply absurd. It does not change at all, because the MRP remains valid and the MRP's retention of intervention continues to apply, so it does not change anything. It is therefore only logical and sensible to take this step today. By the way, we follow the statement made in Vienna in 1993. The Federal Republic of Germany and many other countries in Europe, the Czech Republic, Malta, Norway, Slovakia, Slovenia, Serbia, Great Britain and so on have also withdrawn their initial reservations, because they have just become obsolete in content. [[Abg. Darmann: You don't have to make every fool!]] Therefore, Mrs. Rosenkranz – we are sitting next to each other and are happy to discuss each other again and again –: Let us not argue about Emperor Bart on this issue! We agree. [[Abg. Deimek: That would be new to me now!]] Let us, therefore, fight together across all sides of the party to alleviate the sufferings of children in this world, especially at this time when the future is being stolen in the Middle East, in Africa and so on by a whole generation of children, by criminals à la IS or Boko Haram! Let us, therefore, fight together to alleviate this suffering! I am allowed to close with the great Styrian poet, with Peter Rosegger: “A child is a book from which we should read and write.” – Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e28617	The next honourable Member is Mr Magistrate. Dr. Feichtinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e28638	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr Schönegger has already described it so beautifully: The children are the weakest link in the chain and need our special protection. Children have rights – these have been codified, among other things, in the Child Law Convention. This Convention is based on four guiding principles: the right to equal treatment and protection against discrimination, the primacy of child welfare, the safeguarding of development opportunities and the consideration of child will. And the rights of the Convention, based on the above principles, are divided into three areas: the right to promote and develop – “provision” – the right to protection – “protection” – and the right to participation – “participation”. On the occasion of the ratification of the Convention, which has already been set out, a number of reservations have been imposed by Austria. It has now become apparent from the review that the withdrawal of these reservations would not affect the applicability of the European Convention on Human Rights and its reservations of intervention. Rather, this withdrawal will express a clear commitment by Austria to the full implementation of the Convention on Children's Rights, as well as by the Committee on the Rights of the Child. We therefore request broad consent to withdraw these reservations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e28679	Mrs Windbüchler-Sushill. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e28700	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The key challenge of the Convention on Children's Rights is implementation and implementation. And that is also what the States must actually use for and aim at: ensuring that children's rights are respected. The UN has to review this on the basis of a state report, together with the NGOs, and this has also happened in 2005 and 2012. And one of the recommendations of the UN Children's Rights Committee was to withdraw these reservations. As my previous speaker said, a formal act. Children in Austria do not do much, it does little, because this formal act simply concerns the UN Convention on Children's Rights and does not protect any child directly in Austria and also protects more than it has been or unfortunately not. Minister! I believe that you are among those who recognize the Convention and also know what it means to have a convention ratified in the Federal Constitution but also as a Convention. At the same time, however, refugee children and vulnerable minors still do not enjoy protection in Austria. There is still a reservation that criminal law always applies to foreign law. There is still the reservation in the BVG that refugee children are not protected accordingly as all other children. Austria still distinguishes between refugee children and non-refugees children. And I think it is finally time, especially in the light of the crises and wars, the persecutions and those seeking protection, to change this. Mr Minister, it is up to you to take clear steps and say: Yes, every child is worth the same amount in Austria. – This is also what the Austria Children’s Rights Committee continues to recommend. This reservation does not do children anything, because of the withdrawal there are no improvements. It really needs proper steps in the right direction.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e28742	Mr Scherak. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e28764	Mr President. Mr. Minister! This was really exciting now because, of course, both Mr Schönegger and Mr Feichtinger are right with the fact that the fear scenarios drawn by Mrs Rosenkranz here were not right, because, as I said, they were really only reservations that had been given some care, and there was never a contradiction that would have been done in any way. In other words, it does not really change anything, and both speakers have now admitted this to the government parties. This is also exciting, because the government template literally says that we are making a comprehensive commitment to the implementation of children's rights. And that is simply not true, because the reservations were always irrelevant, as the examination of Mrs. Family Minister Karmasin has shown, which is why they are now withdrawn. Only: We do not make a comprehensive commitment here. We're not doing anything de facto. The essential points of how the implementation of the Child Law Convention takes place, so that at last all children in Austria receive the same care – whether they are from abroad or abroad – that is not regulated again. Nor is it regulated again with the optional protocol. Austria is still stingy to finally ratify this. It is about children being able to contact the UN Children's Rights Committee directly that they can really exercise their rights. We have to do that at last, but we don't. These are things that could really change something and improve the legal status of children. And that is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] If you really want to do something for children and children's rights, you agree. The reservations that we withdraw are completely irrelevant.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e28824	The motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported, properly put in place, and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e28876	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Committee on Justice, the statement on the withdrawal of Austrian reservations. 13, 15 and 17 as well as the explanations on Art. 38 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child in 501 of the Supplements in accordance with Article 50(1). 1 Z 1 B-VG. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Scherak, colleagues on the ratification of the 3. Optional protocols to the UN Convention on Children's Rights. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is rejected. [[20:28:22]] 17. Point Report by the Committee on Justice on motions for resolutions 1210/A by Mr Mag. Michaela Steinacker, Dr. Johannes Jarolim, colleagues concerning a Federal Law amending the Civil Procedure Code, the Disciplinary Statute for Lawyers and Lawyers as well as the Law on Court Organisation (721 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e28940	We're coming to the 17th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Vetter. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for his - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e28967	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. This initiative is about three different materials, I start with the third one, because it is the least extensive: a small increase in judicial administration rates among the Supreme Courts. We also have a regulation in the ZPO and one of the Disciplinary Statutes. In the ZPO, a new regulation on the question of procedural arguments has been inflamed by the fact that the legal judge's question has been resolved by a court, in so far as the legal judge's right is not only to comply with the distribution of business, but also to draw up the legal distribution of business. You know, the right to the legal judge is constitutionally secured and really very, very important – so that you don't look for any judge who perhaps punishes the strictest or least strictly. The reasons for the proceedings are, for example, domestic jurisdiction, local/local jurisdiction, jurisdiction and the like. Personally, in the more than 30 years in which I have already worked in courts, it has never occurred to me that this provision has been infringed, but it is still in place, and this case has been taken as an occasion for re-regulation: especially oral proceedings, involvement in the case itself and so on, so as not to cause any delays to occur. The disciplinary statute was to be re-regulated in so far as we changed the entire administrative jurisdiction a few years ago and then the OBDK, the Supreme Disciplinary Authority of the Lawyers, has disappeared. These agendas were taken over by the Supreme Court. This shift in competence in the last instance ultimately meant that the cost recovery schemes had to be re-established. It was assumed in the regulation at that time that it would cost a little more than it has cost so far. So so far, the OBDK has cost about €100 000 a year. And now the question has been: How do you calculate the costs incurred by the Supreme Court, because these are to be replaced by the Chamber of Advocates in Vienna? There were discussions that reached a flat-rate amount of €600 000. Now we have agreed on an amount of about €150 000. That means it's one and a half times as much as it's been before. This will allow the Bar Association to live. You must also see that in those cases where there is a guilt in disciplinary matters, the disciplinary judge also has to bear the costs. If these costs are not in a reasonable relationship, then the purpose of the penalty would probably not be achieved in the way it should. What I want to say is: If the cost substitute goes beyond the penalty, then every accused person would wonder. If one meets this rule as it is now made, then I believe that one remains within the appropriate framework, so that the criminal accused at all does not receive the replacement penalty for administrative costs, because, like the example in my previous speech, extradition itself, the procedure itself should not be the punishment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e29021	The next speaker is Mr Jarolim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e29043	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. The things that Mrs Vetter has done can be left out, that is all right, which includes our common request. The following are still: There are always problems in proceedings where at the outset the question whether courts are at all responsible for them, and if so, which court, that is, the essential for a procedure is not properly resolved and where, after a longer trial of the Supreme Court or another court of which, at least in the appeal, decides, the whole thing was void, everything was back again. This is now to be clarified by a new regulation, according to which, at the beginning, all the objections that are necessary must be fully raised. If not, then there is no more nullity, that is, it will not de facto anymore, because the obligation is expressly there. This should result in the procedures becoming shorter, and in particular that there is no excessive use of courts, for reasons that are actually with the parties. I think it's not an epoch, but it's still a real step in the right direction. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e29080	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 721 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – The draft law was also adopted unanimously at third reading. [[20:35:50]] 18. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (669 d.e._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Public Prosecutor's Act (732 d.b.) 19. Point Report by the Committee on Justice on motions for resolutions 781/A(E) by Mr Mag. Albert Steinhauser, colleagues on the introduction of a state attorneyship independent of the Federal Government (733 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e29143	We now come to points 18 and 19 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Magnificent came to speak. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e29171	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Minister! I would like to start with a passionate plea, but not with a plea by me, but with a plea by a professor of criminal law who has published in the "Kurier". Even the title leaves no doubt as to what he wants: ‘Justice Minister without the right to order’. And on top of that: "The mere existence of the law prevents justice from being reliably held out of party-political disputes. That's exactly what the Minister of Justice has to do. () The law of order is naturally contrary to the law of law.’ This professor will do this even more in detail. It's not really a lot to add to that either. But I don't want to hide who that was: It is the criminal law professor Brandstetter, who is now Minister of Justice. I have to say to his defense, even the newly praised Minister of Justice Brandstetter was still passionate for a reform and for the abolition of the law of law in his first interviews. And then the troubles of the plane have begun. Then the working groups did, and at some point this reform remained half-way. The Minister for Justice has done something that was not quite wrong, even though we were not satisfied with it: As a provisional, he has introduced a kind of instructions board to get the situation under control. We have already said at that time that this Council of Instructions must not, of course, become a permanent state in Austrian tradition. The Minister of Justice has also said, of course not, that is not a provisional which is to become a permanent state. Now it's all That's different. Now it is this directive council that is going to be permanent, and the law of law remains with the Minister of Justice. That is exactly what I meant in another speech, Minister of Justice: Your problem analysis fits, and then the reform remains halfway. You said today, I'm a friend of the golden middle. Only, Minister, the golden middle is often only the mean and the compromise is not always the best solution. That is exactly the problem, because we now have the situation that: You have recognized the problem very well, but now come with a solution that largely does not change anything about the problem. What is the problem with the Council of Instructions, and why does it not solve the problem? – First of all: Although the Council of Instructions is formally independent, the decision of the Council of Instructions is practically prepared by the same officials who prepare the decision of the Minister and who are subordinated to the Minister. That is to say, a structural independence of those officials who prepare the decision of the Council of Instructions, from the minister to be controlled by the Council of Instructions according to this model, so to speak, is not available. The second point goes in the direction of saying that even attitudes are, of course, again and again nourishment of speculations, because attitudes are discussed at least as emotionally as publicly as directions. Now is the problem, the respective Justice Council does not have to take up the advisory board in the case of the institutions. That's just a can. He can, but he doesn't have to teach him. Now the problem comes back to the board of instructions. He could, of course, check a Minister's decision on recruitment if he was educated, but he would have to work through millions of file pages, as in the hypo procedure, for example. In this respect, he will decide again on the same basis as the Minister – as was prepared – and will come to a similar result, little surprising. The third point is the question of influence beyond the formal supply chains. We know that there is a wide range of service meetings where the leaders of the judicial system, officials et cetera, who are subordinated to the Minister, meet small prosecutors and the joint procedure is discussed and agreed. I say immediately – so that this is not misunderstood – that is not illegal and is permitted in principle, legitimate and makes sense in some situations. But in practice, of course, it is so that pressure can arise in such situations. And if a minister wants to take influence on the prosecutors at some point – not you, I don't put you at all – then he will do that about these service meetings, just there he will put the pressure on. He does not need instructions or advice counsel because he still has all possibilities about these service meetings – and they are related to the formal guidance chains, because you are still at the forefront – to influence the prosecutors. If we look at it now: Is the seeming problem, that was a point, solved? – No, she is not, because the Minister of Justice continues to decide. And if there is a contentious attitude or instruction, then further discussion will be held. Has the formal influence been suppressed? - No, he's not because there's still service meetings. Is the informal influence subverted? – No, because the minister is still at the top, and sometimes – not everyone – you are looking for what the top one wants. All in all, I would say – if you are friendly – a half reform. It's a shame that you don't remember what you're a criminal law professor and young have been represented by advocating Justice Ministers. I think a sustainable reform would have been useful. And yes, you could have written history. It's a shame that you're going to miss this opportunity. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e29243	Next speaker: Mr Dipl.-Ing. Berlakovich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e29264	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The reform of the Ministry's law is the essential point of the Novelle of the Public Prosecutor's Act. In the past, there have been very strong debates on this issue over and over again. Often the impression that something is happening behind the back, that it's mussed, the look was bad. A little bit of the previous speech by Mr Steinhauser is also swinging. They are constructing event cases here, where everything can indicate that things are not right here. And that's where the dog is buried. [[Abg. Steinhauser: For this we make the laws to prevent this!]] If you continue to think about it consistently, the listener gets the impression that there is a minister or a minister who is always in this function, and that's wrong. The answer is given with this novel, and that is: transparency. Transparency is exactly what the impression is that we are being muzzled here and making it visible how decisions are taken. In this sense, Minister Brandstetter has acted correctly and has presented the reform of this right of guidance. It is based on a proposal from a group of experts set up by the Minister, who said that we wanted to arrange this, and this has been taken into account here. In my opinion, this is more than a question of instructions, because it is a matter of responsibility. And it is best to be removed from politically elected mandaters, who are, of course, ultimately responsible to the citizens. A minister has a responsibility and must also explain them publicly, in my opinion to a far greater extent than an official or another expert. The Minister is responsible to the public and must also present himself if he gives or does not give direction. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I think this is a very important matter, because it is precisely this responsibility that a minister or a minister must meet, especially on such a sensitive issue, especially in cases of great public interest. In my opinion, this reform is guaranteed here because it ensures transparency for the public. [[Abg. Moser: Yes, then leave it as it is!]] It's supposed to enter into force with 1. January 2016. We are also laying the legal basis for the so-called Council of Instructions, which should advise the Minister in cases in which he gives a direction. This Advisory Board shall draw up recommendations which must be justified and which must also be made public. However, the recommendations of this Decision are not binding. If the Minister does not take account of these recommendations of the Council of Instructions, he must disclose his decision to Parliament in an annual report. This too is a point that ensures transparency, because in this case the ministers have to stand up and explain to Parliament why he has decided in this way or otherwise. Where a procedure is initiated following the referral of the Council of Instructions by an order, there is also the possibility of a review by a legal representative. So another element is to make sure that something is not going wrong here. The Board of Directors shall be established at the General Procuratorship; the Head shall also be the Chairperson of the Advisory Board. His duties are then also to justify and make public decisions. And the two other members should be externals, i.e. experts or even practitioners, lawyers with long professional experience, and no active judges, prosecutors or lawyers. They shall be independent and shall not be bound by any instructions, shall be appointed by the President-in-Office on a proposal from the Advocate-General and after hearing the Presidents of the Supreme Courts. They'll be ordered for seven years. All this already shows that very careful and very neat action has been taken here in order to support this right of guidance accordingly. In any event, the new body is to be set up in all cases where the Minister intends to give instructions, and in those cases where the Minister himself is caught. In addition, the advisory board should always act when the highest institutions of the Republic are involved in Causen. In addition, as has been said, there is also control by the legal protection officer. I think this is very positive. Through this system, this transparent system is intended to ensure that such decisions are also technically correct and in order. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e29326	Mrs Dr. Reciprocating. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e29348	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! Dear taxpayers! The Federal Minister for Justice, like any Minister of Justice, is democratically legitimized and therefore democratically deductible. In any case, unfair instructions do not occur because of close control. And if this should happen once in a hundred years: What would be a better solution? Is it possible to outsource the law to a non-democraticly legitimate state attorney? That would be much worse. One would have a state in the state that is not accountable to the people. One has now agreed on an independent board of instructions. For optical reasons, I understand the Minister's need to share responsibility. With all due respect for the General Procuratorship, which certainly does very, very good work, I see its role in this context very, very critical. And for the following reason: As part of the ordinary jurisdiction, the General Procurator shall determine whether a appeal is entitled or not. First of all, as Chairman of the Council of Instructions, to decide whether there is a procedurally affecting instruction, whether or not to be given an instruction, and then to decide in the same procedure whether or not a appeal is entitled or not, is actually incompatible. If the General Procurator forbids an instruction, how should he later comment objectively? In my opinion, this is very difficult for Austrian criminal justice. In reality, the law of the Minister of Justice should remain with this one, because it is democratically legitimate and can ................................................................................................................................................................ For important reasons of the state, a certain and, at least, transparent influence is quite healthy in a rule of law. But if you already want to improve the look – and I have a certain understanding for the Minister – then I think that moving an independent judicial council, which is fundamentally legitimate, would have been a good solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e29390	The next speaker is Mr Wittmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e29411	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! There are two priorities in this bill. One priority is the reduction and clarification of the reporting obligation of the public prosecutors, which I do not want to address. The other is the law of the Federal Minister, which is now to be extended by a board of instructions. In principle, the SPÖ never said that the public prosecutor's law should not exist, it was always the question of who and who should exercise this law. The fact that over many years we have preferred the law of a state attorney elected by two thirds of the National Council, and thus very well legitimated by Parliament, is not a secret, but we have now agreed on a compromise, as is customary in a coalition. It's just the second best solution for us, but it's a better solution than before. The law of law remains with the Federal Minister, the Council of Instructions is established at the General Procuratorship, and the General Procurator is certainly someone who understands something of these things, because he is now constantly engaged in dealing with them in his reporting duties. In addition, two additional persons from outside are appointed on the basis of a proposal from the Legal Protection Officer after consulting the President of the Constitutional Court, the Administrative Court and the Supreme Court. So much more can't be remembered to objectively do that. I think that is a good way of doing this and I also give the Minister a security. If two persons authorized by the Supreme Courts, together with the person who knows about the reporting obligation so and so, decide on a case, then, I believe, it is quite a possibility that one should consider that this is all right. This instructions council shall meet if an instruction is to be given when the highest organs are affected or when there is great pressure from the public in a causa. I think that's reasonable. The composition is reasonable, the settlement is reasonable, and in the end there should also be a right of guidance which remains with the Minister. The decisions and recommendations of the Council of Instructions will certainly be made on a technical and factual basis and objective basis. For this purpose, the selection of persons, but also the fact that the general procurator, who is constantly concerned with these things and knows them in detail, is ultimately someone who knows how to deal with such a thing.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e29448	Mr Scherak. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e29471	Mr President. Mr. Minister! There are two points that are relevant. Point 1 is the question of whether the prosecution is an institution of jurisdiction or a part of the administration. We have actually answered this question, because the Federal Constitutional Act provides that the public prosecutorship is an institution of jurisdiction. If we now have a minister who is assigned to the administration, who can give an order to an organ of jurisdiction, then this is a bit problematic with the separation of violence – Montesquieu would probably turn around in the grave – because that is as similar as if the Minister could give a direction to a parliamentarian. This is incompatible with the separation of violence. That is a completely wrong solution. One could decide that the prosecutor's office is part of the administration. So it is wrong because that simply does not correspond to the division of power. To that end, we support the Greens' request, which is also under negotiation. The second point, which is relevant, is that on the one hand we have a Federal Minister who said in an interview with the “Kurier” when he took office – literally! –: ‘The objective must be to abolish the right to order ().’ First of all, you have not achieved your goal, and it is equally exciting that there is a judicial speaker of SPÖ, who is also opposed to this law. Now I'm wondering, What doesn't work? SPÖ Justice spokespersons, SPÖ Constitutional spokespersons, ministers on the side of the ÖVP – both are against the law of order, as well as some opposition parties – but it still comes, it still remains. Something's wrong, something's funny.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e29506	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Stefan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e29527	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If I pick up what my previous speaker just said, it could be believed that we have influenced this, because we have always spoken against the fact that there is a state attorney of our own, and always the opinion, it is important that the Minister has the political responsibility and finally stands at the end of the chain of law. That is why we also support this request, because we think it is a very good compromise that the Minister is using an advisory board that supports him in the decision-making process, that he is made as transparent as possible, as he supports, but ultimately remains the decision of the Minister, because he is politically responsible to us here in Parliament, we have the opportunity here to talk to him, at least to criticize him. This is the best way to exercise our control rights. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The state prosecutorship would be the wrong way, because that would be a new state in the state, another new institution. When it comes to talking about it, new officials needing to prepare something – that is, a negative effect from this side alone. In addition, this would be a policy of the special kind, for: Who's going to order? – That’s always a political decision, we don’t need to talk about it. Anyone who knows how to make decisions in Austria also knows that such a state attorney according to some just random majority and perhaps compromises or otherwise something It is a matter of political importance. In other words, we would have a new political body, which would then be a Deputy Minister or Minister of State or whatever would make decisions and would not in fact be responsible to Parliament, even if it was elected by Parliament. This would not be transparent to Parliament, so it should be rejected in principle to introduce a state attorney. A compromise solution is to leave the right of guidance to the Minister, to continue to make him politically responsible, but to put this advisory board to his side. Our criticism of this refers to two points. On the one hand: The composition looks such that the General Procurator is the Chairman of this Advisory Council and two members are still elected. These two members are eventually selected on the proposal of the Federal Government, and we believe that this is wrong, in fact Parliament should have the right to propose. In view of the possibility of review and the sharing of powers, it would also be useful if this advisory board were to be occupied on a proposal from Parliament. The role of the general procurator is also quite problematic – as Mr Nachbaur has already said – because he has a dual function because, on the one hand, he decides, for example, in the annulment of the law, whether an appeal is received, and on the other hand, as chairman of the Advisory Council, whether an instruction should be granted or not. He's got a double function, that's not good. We would like to have a different composition and order mode, but in the end we consider this to be the currently better solution, for which far better solution than the state attorney's office. The crucial point that the right of decision-making, which remains the political responsibility of the Minister, has moved us to agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e29578	Mr Brandstetter spoke on a point of view. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e29600	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to draw attention to what Mr Steinhauser has already said. I really enjoyed the passionate discussions with him in the Committee on Justice, and they were really further. I am also very glad, Mr Steinhauser, that you are attentive to my previous scientific work as a university teacher. Keep doing this, it can only have a positive effect! I'm very happy about that. But one thing has to be clear, and I'm quite right about that: What can you write story with? Revolution is a way to write history? - Maybe, I don't know. But if you ask me, I must honestly say that I prefer evolution because the revolution is usually not very sustainable in terms of improvements. The fact is, I do not have the inclination to always want to absoluate one's own opinion. I do not want to say that my own opinion is further developing, because the experience is also developing. You always have to be open to that. It is, and everything else is worse, actually unscientific. And that's why I said at the beginning of the discussion, at the beginning of my term of office: Let's really think about what an expert group is about. to changes in the right of guidance in the current form is feasible! That's how I formulated it back then. What can we really achieve, what can we do, even within the framework of the constitutional law, which is more or less prejudicial to us? We now have a constitutional requirement. Finally, what the group of experts, who had proposed a wide variety of participants from various areas of justice, justice and judicial professions, was the realization that the law of law in the field of supervision has always had to be used in order to prevent and prevent misdevelopments, but that this, of course, is subject to parliamentary control. You can't get around this point. What can you do? It is right – and this also corresponds to my practical experience – that the public in many cases requires us to intervene. We do the same, but we do so in a completely transparent form, and that is the key to the solution. The decisive thing is that, if you have to intervene, you have to do so transparently in the interests of a meaningful outcome in the specific case. I have taken the expert group's proposals seriously and have developed them, as I believe, in a reasonable way, in a number of ways. The group of experts has meant, of course, a consultative body, which is made up of completely independent experts – by the way, the general procurator, as chairman of this body, is naturally not allowed – that makes sense, that should be continued. This is the right compromise between maintaining the possibility of intervention in order to avoid misdevelopments, with full parliamentary control and the need for transparency. [[President Bures takes over the presidency again.]] In addition, we have now – and in so far as everything that has been said so far, the details, the essential points of this draft, are not entirely correct – provided for a drastic reduction in reporting obligation to the top. That's very, very important. In the future, all prosecutors, as is the case with the economic and corruption prosecutors, will only report at the end of their activities when it comes to a project report for completion. This is a very important point, because it significantly reduces the number of so-called precepts. The next point – and this too is quite, very important – is the fact that, in future, even cases where there was never a precept, but which have a special public impact, should be guided by this guidance council, so that there is transparency here too. Even if from the first to the last instance the decisions were completely unanimous and no one disputed that this was a right decision, even if there was never an instruction, the public should have the opportunity to understand in a transparent way what decisions there were, at which level. And the next point: This board of instructions will have the opportunity to justify its decision completely autonomously, independently and independently, to make externally transparent, regardless of the ministry. That's important. In addition, there will also be the possibility for institutions to carry out a judicial check once again through the legal protection officer, which you do not need in the case of the indictment, as you know, because you will have the opportunity to object and to exercise judicial control as a victim anyway. That is to say, we have achieved this model: drastic reduction of reporting obligations, transparency in all cases of publicity and the possibility of judicial control also in all cases. That is what I call real progress in the sense of evolution, and that makes sense. That is also the reason why I can say with good conscience that this bill is really a real development, a real progress. If you consider how many decades we have been discussing in this House about the right of guidance, about this seeming problem, then you have to say that we now have something better after a relatively short period of time. We have something that fits into our constitution, and we have found a way to really solve this problem, at least in such a way that a clear development and improvement is achieved. When I think of the alternative model: A state attorney, a Federal Advocate General, whoever, may also be subject to parliamentary control, but in fact many problems begin only from the beginning. It's just a parallel shift to another organ. This may open up the possibility to occupy any posts there or there, but this is of course an expensive solution, which is of course linked to the need to build new structures. The current model is very economical. We do not need new institutions, the general procuratorship is there, it will be able to lead this body accordingly, it does not need any additional infrastructure, so it is a really cost-saving but highly effective model to solve this problem. That is why I believe that I can really say that this is a draft law which we can say is not better at present, which is optimally designed in terms of our constitutional requirements and possibilities. Another detail because this was addressed by Mr Steinhauser: We have also made a regulation for the meetings of the service, which will bring real improvements. In the future, there will be a protocol to be signed by all participants; a perhaps small but highly effective detail. That is, we have a lot of things built in, also beyond what the expert group has recommended to us, so that I can really say: Yes, that's the best we can do at the moment! That is why I would really think that today is a real opportunity to really solve the problem of the right of guidance as it is currently possible. Mr Steinhauser, you will continue to dream that sometime there is something completely different, a new institution, a state attorney, a federal general lawyer, but I am committed to reality to arresting reality. In your diction, I might be something like a realo. Dreams You continue, you dream of an absolute majority you may have once dreamed of a constitutional majority – I finally want a reasonable solution here and now, and that is what we can achieve! That's why I'm asking for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e29682	Reported as follows: Mrs Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e29703	Madam President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen here and perhaps also at home! Today it has already been said that the legal systems and laws should reflect what Value and attitude of the population is. Andersherum said: The values of the population are to be reflected in laws. Well, Minister, ask your students or people on the street! Everyone imagines that justice should act justly, precisely, carefully, reliably, in a certain time frame and, above all, independently. No matter what, that's the keyword. As a layman, I am sometimes confronted with passages from the law of prosecutors. We have the situation that § 8 – I believe it was § 8a – is to be read and was that, in so-called clamorous cases where individuals are public interest with justice at a certain stage of dispute, they may be accused of being accused of being accused of being subject to an interesting reporting obligation on the part of the public prosecutor. You have, I have to say this to you, greatly reduced this reporting obligation, almost completely reduced, but the report as a minister can still be requested. The prosecutor no longer needs to report up before certain investigations and various other decisions, so to speak, by legend, no, he may have to report on the grounds, and we have heard today that the Minister of Justice is a politically responsible person who, of course, also needs to speak and answer Parliament. I have also held various discussions with many of your predecessors. This has been the advantage of this new regulation, so to speak, of reporting requirements, but the need to report if requested remains. Now we have the second point on which much has already been discussed, namely the so-called right of guidance. In practice, you have said that the population wants to have independent bodies, and the General Procuratorate, the Advisory Board – that is now – is something like an independent body. – Yes, if he was the last, but it still remains – several colleagues have clearly explained it – the guidance chain in your hand! On what basis does the Advisory Board now assess investigation reports or final drafts? On what basis? – On the basis of the work of your departments, of course, and your departments are subordinated to you, and there you can work very well with instructions. So briefly summarized: The fact is, there's a new institution behind which you can hide. You can wash your hands in innocence like Pontius Pilate, you can say yes: All this was decided by the Advisory Board, I'm completely independent, I'm innocent! On the other hand, there is still the possibility to influence. And that's just why: They were subject to the feasibility dictatorship, and the feasibility dictatorships are exercised by the parties. In this case, the ÖVP did not want what you, as scientists, wanted very well. On the other hand, it is clear that we have a solution here and now, which is a crutch that is partly worse because it is intransparent – and therefore in good Viennese: I'll give you the Weisel for your advice counsel!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e29760	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. It's a kilnauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e29781	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers and Seers! Mr Federal Minister, according to your comments, any explanation of this bill would actually be unnecessary, but I am still explaining it. [[Congratulations on representatives of the SPÖ]] On the one hand, the present government template contains a reform of the reporting obligation of the prosecutors, of the law by the legal anchoring of the board of instructions and sets out on a legal basis the already existing guidance system, which has not yet been mentioned. I feel as if the law of the Minister of Justice was somehow a privilege in the field of justice. However, this is not the case, but it is anchored throughout the administration, especially in the area of justice in the Federal Constitution. It is true that, in the federal constitution, the prosecutors are referred to as bodies of jurisdiction, but it is also stated that it is possible to make more detailed regulations on the binding, instructions by federal law. That is to say, the law of law, the jurisdiction of the prosecutors is governed by the federal constitution. For this reason, I see the required creation of a state attorney's office as very critical. The law of law is also an essential part of the supervision of the Supreme Institutions of the Federal Government, which results from the management of the administration. The Constitutional Court has already stated that a management without supervisory authority is not imaginable. The responsibility for the department can only be exercised by the Federal Minister if he also has the necessary supervisory possibilities. It is a principle of our constitution that the people can exercise control of the highest institutions of the state, that is, of the ministers, over the elected representatives in Parliament. I do not think it would be appropriate to amend the Constitution in the area of justice. In my opinion, therefore, the creation of a state prosecutor would also be a false approach, because it creates a parallel authority, a completely new authority with increased administrative burden, and, according to some proposals, it would also operate completely autonomously outside the existing and established control mechanisms. Even if it is under the control of Parliament – if one has the objective of excluding any sign of political influence from this authority – one has to ask itself in this context whether one can even create a totally non-political authority in this way. I know that statements or opinions from Greece are more critical at the moment, but the ancient philosopher Platon has already called man a political being. A completely apolitically occupied authority is therefore more likely to remain a dream of wish – and there is the solution that we are now meeting, in any case, preferable to me. Mr Federal Minister, I congratulate you on this draft. He creates more transparency, he creates more legal certainty, and at the same time the political responsibility to the Austrians remains.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e29826	Next item is the report by Mr Jarolim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e29847	Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! So, Minister of State, I know many realos who could also warm up to use a state attorney. I also know some of the procedures that did not exist too long ago, where there was this discussion. This is certainly a step in the right direction today, not a question. The preference would have been that Parliament would be a state attorney subject to control; Parliament would decide this with a two-thirds majority, three-quarters majority, so that there would probably no longer be the accusation of a party-political appointment. That would certainly be a good model. Whether you have to dream about it, I don't know, that's a step in the right direction, an improvement. We are glad that we have achieved this, and will, of course, be happy to agree with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e29880	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 18: Draft federal law amending the Public Prosecutor's Act, including title and receipt in 669 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall also proceed to the vote on agenda item 19: Request by the Justice Committee to take note of its report 733 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[21:15:45]] 20. Point Report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the Government template (628b._Other Organiser The Federal Act establishing the Federal Law on Alternative Financing (AltFG) and amending the Capital Market Act (654 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e29951	Now we get to the 20th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. I would like to thank the Minister of Justice for his coming and give the first speaker on this item on the agenda, Mr Magistrate. Great word. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e29980	Madam President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen. Who has never heard statements like the following: Whoever wants to work, lacks his starting capital; who has new ideas, lacks equity or collateral; Business growth needs liquidity; anyone who gets into the wrong position must and cannot be helped; citizens want to build and operate infrastructure together; environmental policy, such as small-scale power plants, photovoltaic installations and the like, wants to be implemented jointly; Funders are looking for innovations; the small saver also wants to participate in technology or regional projects; Investors, foundations want to invest their money in Austria, but do not find any corresponding projects. All these issues are currently very often blocked – blocked by investor protection regulations, by money laundering regulations, by unusual taxation regulations, by costs for prospecting, auditing and insurance obligations, which often make up more than the money needed. Thus, many companies have not yet been able to be established, grow or survive. Many jobs could not be created or could not be maintained. Many innovations landed in the drawer because the corresponding money was not available. With the present law, we now allow companies to award Mezzanine capital up to €1.5 million without prospect, that companies up to €5 million only need a prospectus light at much lower costs. This law allows internet platforms to help spread information on the web and collect money from the crowd. This law also allows these Internet platforms to issue a public offer and thus a capital income tax and a final tax. This law allows for investor protection to ensure that the amounts are so limited that everyone can assess and use their risk. But in order to achieve a really large growth, which is possible, it needed a few small points. It would be necessary for the projects, platforms operating with securitised securities, to continue to be able to carry out the same prospectus heights without additional requirements. We needed the support and permission to create a secondary market so that it could be implemented. The tax deductibility of risk capital would be necessary in order to bring a real momentum into this form of financing. This law opens us new doors. It will be a positive complement to bank financing and will trigger growth. Let us go through this door together and support the growth of innovative small and medium-sized enterprises in the future with some legal additions too! If we allow real citizens' capital to participate, we will allow the joint implementation of climate policy, regional policy measures, and allow people to invest their money as they think it is right! I thank you for the initiative of the Secretary of State for bringing this law into line here, which gives the first major milestone for the growth of small and medium-sized enterprises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e30028	Next item is the report by Mr Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e30050	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! At the last meeting in the last GP, i.e. in the summer of 2013, all the parties represented here jointly agreed that, according to experience of Staudinger, the entrepreneurship rebel from the forest district, we want to facilitate the possibility of using alternative forms of funding. At the time, some in the opposition did not think that this was possible, it was included in the government programme, and it was clearly assured that a reasonable regime would come. This reasonable arrangement is now in place. One thing was clear from the outset: We are not talking about crowdfunding – it has always been possible to collect donations – we are not talking about applying equity – that is what our Waldviertler shoe manufacturer has done in the meantime – but we are talking about homeing money, passing by every financial instrument, and in this bill there are reliefs that are very generous. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gray]] We have exhausted the full €5 million that the directive allows; up to €1.5 million, so to speak, is the smallest, between €1.5 million and €5 million, there is an easy prospectus guide. We thus create more opportunities, especially through the electronic platforms, for investors to direct lending of companies, to generate the money, to get interest, and hopefully to get back the capital at the end of the day. We can congratulate ourselves on this today. I would just like to add a small package warning: In the first scandal that we may have in one case, the first will come and ask: Why have they not taken precautions in Parliament to ensure that this is controlled accordingly? I want to have said it; maybe I will quote it after some time when such a thing happens. We make a consciously liberal regulation, we reduce investor protection in this area something, but we must be clear that there are also risks in addition to applause, because it is so modern. We move in this field of tension: We must ensure that investors are not lied down and cheated, versus the freedom of entrepreneurs to be able to borrow money. I believe that we have found a good compromise, but we must live by it, and no one can take responsibility. That's a good law, let's see how it goes! I also wish there were more projects to be financed. There are also other examples of innovation, alternative forms of energy, but of course also start-ups with new ideas. If we hope it blossoms, then people may make more profits than losses, then we can all knock on our shoulders, then we've brought something together! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e30098	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Kassinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e30119	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! Whether you say “crowdfunding” or “crowding” or “swimmer financing” – which is a bit of a charm from the expression – is not of significant relevance now. In any case, it is a signal that we see as the right signal, but a seeful, a small signal. One cannot expect this instrument now, so this is certainly not the miracle weapon that is driving the economy. Let us also remember that the cause of the external financing gap or credit clamp is rather questionable, as I believe that there is enough supply and that the demand-side clamp results from an uncertainty, which, of course, includes – and this is the policy and, in particular, the government, of course – a concern as regards general economic development, then we must say: Once companies become insecure, it is a matter of whether loans or similar things are available; if they themselves do not want to take the risk, then crowdfunding or whatever will not help us. I do not want to be ill, we will also vote in favour, I would just like to say in this context that the government is setting completely counterproductive signals at the same time, by increasing the capital income tax to 27.5 percent. They do not seriously believe that it is a positive signal for entrepreneurs or potential entrepreneurs to invest their money in shares or GesmbH shares, if you at the same time tell them that they will pay more taxes in future for the distributed profits by 2.5 percent! The same applies – and this is absurd for me anyway – to the new regulation that capital reserves, i.e. capital transferred from owners, can now no longer be automatically removed free of tax, but is treated as profits from operating activities. It's not understandable to me. And – it has already been suggested – we are not talking about the capital market in the sense of Venture Capital, Business Angels; in Austria we are still sleeping in dornröschen. Nor do we talk – and these would be good signals – of non-profit foundations. In particular, Germany shows us that there is enormous financing potential, especially in the field of research, where we are somewhere in Austria. Summary: This law is good for the reason, a small signal to the extent of a bonsai tree, from which one cannot now expect the salvation of the world – good, but too careful for us. We will also vote in favour of the amendments tabled by the Greens and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. This is less observant than what the government is presenting to us here, unfortunately, again borne in mind the principle that people – in this case the people who want to invest – should be protected from themselves primarily once. This contradicts our free access. In our view, people are primarily self-determined, free people, and they can already be trusted to make an investment to a greater extent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e30171	The next item is Mrs Lichtenecker's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e30192	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to take this opportunity to shed a little light on the dazzling history of this law. Finally, at the end of 2012, when the Schuster from the Waldviertel, Heini Staudinger, said what problems he had, because he had borrowed money from his customers, friends and friends to expand his company accordingly, and thus, of course, has been in conflict with the financial market supervision – with all the facets that have then brought it. Then there were the first initiatives, and it became apparent at once that it is not just an entrepreneur, but that it is also communities, energy transition projects. They have also come into a difficult situation, as they have borrowed money from their parish citizens to build, for example, a photovoltaic plant. At the beginning of 2013 we from the Green Parliament Club took the initiative here in the house and made an survey on this subject, which was very diverse and widely visited – an exciting, intense discourse across all political groups, between entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs, representatives of NGOs, energy transition projects, legal experts. We have taken a lot from this expert discussion, also in combination – because I see Mr Jank in particular – with the Chamber of Commerce, and have gone into further debates. It then has several – how should I say? – Meetings, discussions of all parliamentary groups with experts, with representatives of the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Workers, FMA and so on in the house. I can assure you that the discussions were more than weary. The sessions have become felt longer and longer. What came out was already mentioned by Mr Matznetter, it was a minimal compromise before the end of the 2013 legislative period. That was in July, now we have July again. It took two years for us to have this bill here now. But I think it's a good step here today. That will also be our support in this form. I think it is a good move for the start-ups, for the EPUs, for SMEs and for the energy transition projects. It's a good signal. In the discussion with these, I also hear that this is good, although there are, of course, points that are still capable of improving. I am also pleased that many of the green proposals have been incorporated into this law and found their rainfall in it, and I also believe that it is a great step towards freedom for citizens, what they really want to do with their money, with their savings, with their assets. The criteria we consider important, namely that it is as simple, cost-effective, legal certainty and transparent as possible, as we believe, this law, and the investor protection that we consider to be an essential part, we also consider to be well-fulfilled. On the topic of the evaluation 2019, the question is whether one does not look at each other in the mid-term: What is the balance sheet? Where do you need improvement? Where do you need adaptation? – But in the end it is a good step. Nevertheless: There are several areas that can be improved, I will now take one out, which I will also support here with a request. We consider the plant to be too little at 5 000 € per project. Now I know, you can define this differently: with financial assets and net monthly income and the cuckoo knows what. We think that this is too complicated, we want to keep it as simple and as clear as possible as possible. Therefore, we make the request that in Article 1 in Section 3 para. 1 Z 2 and in par. The amount ‘€5 000’ is replaced by ‘€20 000’. Yes, we believe this is a proposal that underlines the freedom of citizens and invites everyone here to support this proposal with us.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e30232	This was, as it were, an amendment that you have tabled. If that is so, without you mentioning it as an amendment, I take note of that. You have also formulated the changes. The application is therefore properly filed and is also under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e30290	The next speaker was Mrs. Dr. Nachbaur. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e30311	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! Dear taxpayers! There is thank God in Austria an incredible number of wise people. Some are even willing to take entrepreneurial risk. However, the very initial acquisition of capital often poses a major problem. Unfortunately, the venture capital market in Austria is very low, and often banks are not allowed to lend loans to entrepreneurs at all. One of the main reasons for this is Basel III. I have mentioned and criticized this so many times: This monstrosity of over 4,000 pages makes a successive distinction between companies and states as borrowers. While banks can buy government bonds without having to subordinate them with their own resources, it is becoming increasingly unattractive for banks to finance companies because of their many requirements. However, it is not the task of banks to finance states. Indeed, the taxes and taxes that have just reached a record level in our country are intended to do so, but banks should fulfil their core function, namely to collect funds and to lend loans to people and companies. Therefore, Austria at European level should be strong in order to suspend at least temporary Basel III. Basel III has turned out to be an absolute SME killer, and without the Americans signing Basel II, the overzealous Europeans are even negotiating Basel IV. That's really absurd! But this is a pan-European problem. So let's see what Austria could do, regardless of the EU, to make it easier for young entrepreneurs and start-ups to get to finance! I have the following proposals: If a private person enters his money into a young company or into a non-listed company, he should also have something for this increased risk, i.e. a rate reduced by half if his shares become somewhat worth over time. [[Abg. Katzian: His employees, too?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] Next proposal: If a private person enters his money into a young company or a non-listed company, he must be able to submit his claim for loss to a later investment if a loss occurs. Or: If a private person enters his money into a young company or a non-listed company, that venture capital must be immediately write-offable in the event of losses, not as it has been over the course of seven years. This would then be much stronger than the form of investment, even to where you can practically watch how the money on the savings book simply melts in front of your eyes. In this sense, I very much welcome the government template, which is likely to significantly improve the conditions in our country for crowdfunding. It is really good, in principle, to represent very much the government, what you have done. But I have a question: Why Set Are you currently making shares and bonds worse than cooperatives or other forms of participation? In particular, shares and bonds are the most relevant and at the same time regulated instrument and the most important instrument in the capital market. It seems to me to be as if one wanted to do the right thing here at first, but then the anti-capital fraction of SPÖ once again prevailed. It would be a failure if they were to prevail once with useful ideas that would help create jobs, for example, that for the first three employees of a young company only half the additional wage costs should be borne. Or that you delete the minimum-coast. That's absurd, anyway, why you're supposed to pay income tax if there's no profit at all. We finally have to get away from these ideas from the left moth box with this overtime euro, the 35-hour week et cetera – to measures that really do something for the real economy! Only in the real economy can one create prosperity – never by these ideas, which at the end of the day only raise public debt and thus burden the next generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e30361	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Alm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e30382	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Last week, Minister Stöger told us in the committee that he has €70 million for start-ups. That's a nice thing. Let's consider where this money comes from. This is, of course, tax money that is put in the start-ups. On the one hand, this is okay, on the other hand, there are a lot of people who want to invest in young companies because of their private assets. That's where you're wondering: Should one be jealous that these “rich bags” – I look consciously in the SPÖ ranks – have some tax reliefs, and do we not find it more convenient for these people to use their own money to make these finances that we would otherwise make from tax resources? That means: How do we create a market for private venture capital? - That's the question here. For example, we can take Germany as an example, which, with the INVEST grant for venture capital, provides a 20 % grant on these investments and thus has a lever of more than 400 percent on the tax money used. The crowdfunding law, as it stands, is a good law. It took a little while, but it's there. We do not see in this draft any showstoppers that would make it impossible for us to agree here. Of course, there are a few things that we see a little different. As criticised by Mr Kassinger and also tabled by Mr Lichtenecker as a request, we also consider the one-time plant restriction of € 5 000 to be too low. Even with every caution that Mr Matznetter has called for, we can assure the people that they know what they are doing with their money. In this respect, we have also brought with us an amendment, in reality a two-part amendment, because we do not see why the holders of not entitled to these transactions and the owners of small concessions after the WAG already. The application is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] We must not, however, stand by this crowd-vesting, crowdfunding, alternative financing law. That's just a part of mobilizing private capital. I have mentioned earlier that it must be considered to introduce something like a venture capital exemption, a “real-economy investment exemption”, as we call it. Harald Mahrer already announced him for the summer. I wish him luck in getting through with it. We must also remember, however, that there is still a lot to be done in the areas of foundations and institutional investors, where very small single-digit percentages of assets would also help to support innovative young companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e30453	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Hanger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e30474	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! What does the eco-shipping dealer Green Earth have with the company Hydroconnect, which produces an innovative hydroconnected screw for fish, together with the company oekostrom AG, which has realized the project simon, or for example the Caritas Hotel magdas HOTEL with a packaging-free supermarket in Innsbruck? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Light ecker]] – All have one thing in common: They financed projects through crowdfunding. [[Abg. Lightenecker: Exactly!]] These projects may not exist if there was not this crowdfunding. However, these lighthouse projects in Austria must not deceive us that crowdfunding does not play a major role in us. Considering this in the European comparison, it is noted that this is much more developed in Europe than in Austria. In the UK, for example, investment capital for crowdfunding is ninety times as high. What are the causes of this? – This is probably a question of mentality, which is why we have access to equity financing. But a very essential reason will also be that in Austria we do not have a uniform legal framework, that the prospectus obligation has already begun at €250 000. And this very new law, which we are currently debating, is an improvement. I would like to express my express thanks to our State Secretary, Harald Mahrer, who has taken this very initiative, so that, as Mr Lichtenecker has already said, we can finally proceed after a relatively long discussion. What are the main advantages? – There is simply the possibility of financing projects by companies that cannot be financed traditionally, projects that cannot otherwise be implemented into reality. A major advantage for young entrepreneurs is, in my opinion, the fact that, if a business idea is there, you can easily check on a crowdfunding project whether this idea is actually marketable. You have to find the crowd, you have to find people who are willing to invest. And if you don't find it, a project actually fails. This does not cause high risks either. A third issue, I believe, is also very important: crowdfunding is an interesting marketing tool. Interesting crowdfunding projects get attention, and this can, of course, help start-up companies to achieve their goal faster to place the product on the market. There is also a disadvantage, I think, when talking about risk capital, you always have to address it: It is also about, as the name says, risk capital. It must also be said to the investor very clearly that his investment can also be lost if the company does not develop as we all wish. It is also important to always emphasize this. We must not create expectations that are not correct. But the biggest advantage – and I think that's the most important thing – is: There are many tasks to be done in the political spectrum, but the most important task, I believe, is to keep people in employment and create new jobs. I am very convinced that crowdfunding can also create new jobs. That, I think, is the most important advantage of crowdfunding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e30517	Furthermore, the amendment tabled by the honourable Member is Mag. Alm has been properly introduced and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e30581	Next speaker: Mrs Ecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e30602	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Crowdfunding is a relatively new form of financing. This method of obtaining money can be used to equip new business ideas and other projects with equity. In doing so, the companies are not getting capital from an investor, but from several people, from a lot of people, the so-called crowd. Experience has shown that this type of funding has already worked well and proved itself. I agree with the Minister for Economic Affairs that it is a useful addition to the already existing forms of financing. The Alternative Financing Act thus creates the legal framework and shows that we are giving high priority to start-ups in Austria. Our society and also our economy are based on innovations. Especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, the Alternative Financing Act is interesting, especially for those companies that are not represented on the stock market. Crowdfunding has proved particularly successful in developing prototypes and making them ready for the market. The investors are not only the lenders, but also the customers and interested parties. Now to the innovations of this law in detail. The obligation to a full capital market prospectus was increased from € 250 000 to € 5 million. In between, the prospectus is stamped. For an emission volume of between €1.5 million and € 5 million, only a fourfold prospectus can be created in the future. An investor can invest up to €5,000 a year per project. This EUR 5 000 limit can be exceeded if the investor earns more than € 2 500 net per month. Then the double of the monthly net income can be charged. Alternatively, 10 percent of the financial assets per investor can be invested if this amount exceeds € 5 000. [[Abg. Lightenecker: All too complicated!]] The right of withdrawal for investors is two weeks as in the field of consumer protection. Within seven years, issuers may not absorb more than €5 million less of the amounts already repaid to investors. If this threshold is exceeded, a capital market prospectus must be created. In general, I see this law as very positive, especially as regards the basic idea behind it. All in all, I believe that this law should prove itself in practice once to be able to take further steps here. In my opinion, the most important thing is that the start-up scene is being supported – another step of this government, which shows that we are driving forward the concerns of entrepreneurs in this country and are for improvements. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e30639	The next item is the speech by Mr Köchl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e30660	Dear ladies, ladies and gentlemen! Estimated Secretary of State! You may know the saying: You get a credit from the bank if you can prove that you don't need it. – This statement has a lot of truth in it. Now in connection with the crowdfunding law, this is all the more true. In origin, as we decide here today – also with the voices of the Greens – this law is actually a green law. It is a law on the basic democratic financing of entrepreneurial ideas, once I put it that way. The Greens have basic democracy as an essential element in their programme. So our proposal: basic democratic financing of innovative ideas. If we set a decisive starting impulse here today, this will have our support. You can certainly do a little more courageous – and there are the corresponding applications: 20 000-€- instead of 5 000-€-limit. Yes, of course, but I'm still really happy now, because we're on the 8th. Last July, exactly one year ago, this request by Mr Ruperta Lichtenecker was tabled here in Parliament; and after a year we now have a very reasonable basis for further developments. However, I would also like to say that not only is this a tool, as we finance entrepreneurial ideas, but it is also a matter of finally forcing the founding culture – and in this we are very much in agreement with the Secretary of State in Austria. I'm allowed to express my opinion. I have the impression that most Austrians are sitting as tired as you are now here in your armchairs about the idea of investing money in companies. So there are the people... In Austria, it is still totally reserved and a little tired. We can, of course, facilitate and encourage this by such laws. So I'm quite, very optimistic that there's going to be some things going on. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We have some proposals: 40-point programme for the ‘founderland strategy’, where there is a lot of reasonableness. And since this legislative period lasts even longer, 40 months in about, I assume that now every month we implement such a law, i.e. such a measure within the scope of the crowdfunding law. This is a very ambitious goal. But it would actually be my goal now that we go in this direction. And whatever I want to say, We urgently need a more open access also to the subject of shares, stock company, small stock company, but also to reform more open access to the subject of cooperative law, to establish revision associations of other nature independently of Raiffeisen. So that would be quite, very important approaches we want to support. I am now optimistic that we have made a good start together with today. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e30715	Next, Mr. Mahrer has spoken. Please, Mr State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e30736	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Good thing needs a while! And since the courage was constantly raised, namely that one could be more courageous, for example, as regards the minimum amount of investment, I expressly thank the Social Democratic Group for its courage at the beginning, because at the beginning we moved very different levels together, which affected the respective amounts with respect to prospectus obligations on the one hand, but also the possibility of individual investment on the other. I must say that I am very satisfied at the end of the day – after many months of intense negotiation, very valuable negotiation, including the proposals of the opposition parties, even before the assessment phase, but also in the assessment phase of the law. And I believe that just as Mr Matznetter has said, it is a good, a very balanced law that carries a risk – and that must be said at this point. We all have the Greek debate every day in our newspapers and on TV screens and we hear this on the radio. And at the end of the day, hiding money is also about the risk of not getting it back. Of course, this is also a very clear issue in this law. Therefore, this balance of interest also between the need to put fuel on the feet for the economy, for business activities, and the claim not to lose sight of investor protection considerations at the same time. I think we have come to a very good conclusion in very appreciative – and I would like to stress this once again – and, with the addition of very, very many experts, balanced negotiations, which can be seen in this way and which at the end of the day pursues a single major objective of contributing, in addition to other measures – increasing the research premium, tax reform and others – to increase employment. It's about jobs at the end of the day. Ladies and gentlemen, that is to say, business projects that will bring jobs. One can say – Mrs Lichtenecker did that – it is a simple law, it creates transparency, legal certainty, low level access. These were the conditions that actually wanted to have the House in total. This is with the law in the present form. In view of the advanced hour, I no longer want to address the various points, which has been discussed in detail in the Committee. Perhaps you should let me address a point regarding the demand that you might be more courageous. An evaluation is planned. Whenever you find out in the next two, three years, that is, earlier than 2019, whether the regulation has proved itself in this form or not. We will receive plenty of feedback from the platforms and various providers. I am also quite sure that there will be failures, which is in the nature of the market. We're all supposed to keep a cool head. Mr Matznetter has said that if the contribution is higher, it is no longer a shoal financing. It's always a mixture. There may be many small ones, it could also be one or the other bigger. I think the practice will then show how it works. That's good and right. In this sense, I would like to thank everyone, including Mr Köchl, Mr Alm, Mr Groiß, but also colleagues from the Socialist Party. In total, that was, I think, a very good common story. Sometimes it takes a little longer. Maybe some would have liked it to go a little faster, fact is: The child sees the light of the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e30787	Reported as follows: Mrs Jank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e30809	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would like to thank my colleague, Mr Lichtenecker, for presenting how this initiative came about. There have been many such initiatives, including those of a Mr Staudinger, who has reached a general public, and of the young economy in the Chamber of Commerce, which has been very much lobbying for this. Finally, this has led us to adopt this law today. And I think there is broad agreement here in the hall. It is with this law that movement comes into the financing of the small and medium-sized economy, in particular the early financing of companies that are only in the initial phase and therefore cannot yet prove to a classical financier what they can do, what their idea and the implementation of their idea are worth. Of course, this is also about the already addressed risk and the issue of risk protection or risk suspension, but also about creating opportunities for people to take risks consciously, because they believe in a certain idea, because they are convinced that an entrepreneur can rise with his idea, his product, and because they want to support it. I therefore expect an improved corporate culture and a better understanding of entrepreneurship, because of the large number of lenders and entrepreneurs in this form. to grow closer together. The decision to support and finance a particular company is quite conscious! Ladies and gentlemen! This alternative form of financing also strengthens the competitiveness of entrepreneurs. And I would like to give you another input, which shows this and seems particularly important to me: Crowdfunding could also be a good way to finance entry into new markets, i.e. in export, because the opportunities for growth are currently in export. The “Economic Report Austria 2015”, which was presented last week, points exactly in this direction. And we would be well advised, that is, the entrepreneurs would be well advised if they were to set up their business opportunities there too. We know that far more companies than currently export would be successful if they were to benefit from their chances of financing through crowdfunding – and this is already about crowdfunding, Mr. Matznetter, with all its additional forms. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e30854	Reported as follows: Mrs Mag. Greiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e30875	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! In the field of crowdfunding, it is essentially a matter of financing a project, a project no longer exclusively or no longer through bank credit, but through the participation of private investors. The alternative financing law to be decided today – the Secretary of State has already mentioned it – offers legal certainty, both for those who want to work with this capital that implement a project and for investors. The charges are made directly by the issuing company or by crowdfunding platforms. The limit of €5,000 has already been mentioned. Now one might think that it is too little, but this limit provides protection for investors from possibly too risky investments. What is the advantage of crowdfunding? – In particular, it offers young companies a better start-up requirement if they want to start a company or place a firm business on solid legs. Another aspect, even this one is a short one: Crowdfunding not only provides capital, but brings important feedback from the market. And exactly this feedback, this feedback from the market is extremely necessary in the event of a product launch or before the implementation of a new idea. I can now mention some current facts from Graz, where young entrepreneurs are strongly encouraged, start-ups, especially entrepreneurs from the creative scene, and we know that this law to be decided today is fundamental to them. They get into the starting holes and wait for them to get started. They have just begun information campaigns on their products. Today's law is another impulse and will provide a really better prerequisite for young entrepreneurs in addition to the things that are already happening. What happens in addition? – I may briefly mention two examples: the Economic Agency in Vienna or the Founding Garage in Graz of the Institute for Entrepreneurship, which is a cooperation with the KFU, the Karl-Franzens-Universität in Graz, which is very strongly cooperating with the city of Graz, with the aim of innovation, research and to create and promote on-the-spot jobs so that those who work there and then leave the university will become entrepreneurially active on-site and do not move completely abroad. As I said, this law offers good conditions, we will agree. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e30927	Next item is the report by Mr El Habbassi. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e30948	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Today is a good day for all start-ups and all those who want to advance this country by implementing creative ideas for which they need funding. In times when we are happy about every job that is being created, and where many young entrepreneurs who are developing an idea creatively, are struggling to get a financing, it is good that we now create proper framework conditions for building up crowdfunding on ordinary conditions in the future, in addition to conventional funding opportunities, and thus making it easier to get money for ideas for innovation, with fewer prospectus obligations. I think it is important for a location that there is also a thriving start-up scene. The young economy has already expressed itself positively, and I believe that we can all do this today, because what we need is to move what we need is innovation. We need young entrepreneurs who are willing to implement their ideas to take the risk. And it just needs money, and I think it's good that we've created the framework for it with this crowdfunding law. A little comment: Anyone who deals with investments and start-ups and knows that an idea that is at an initial stage can always fail. But, I think, we should feel that they invest their money bravely and thoughtfully in ideas they believe in themselves. Therefore, if we believe in self-responsible people and in innovation, we do not necessarily have to make such restrictions that you can invest only €5,000. I think you could also make a higher sum. This is a wish for the Christian child, perhaps also for this house here. But I think that, in general, we have made a good regulation here, and I would like to congratulate it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e30981	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law in 628 of the supplements. There are the following proposals: an amendment tabled by Dr Lichtenecker, colleagues and a amendment tabled by the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Alm, ladies and gentlemen. I am therefore going to vote on the parts of the legislative proposal concerned by the proposed amendments and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Members of Parliament Dr. Lichtenecker, colleagues and others have tabled an amendment concerning Article 1(3). If you're right, I'm looking for a sign of that kind. – This is the minority. Rejected. Deputies Mag. All Members also tabled an amendment concerning Article 1(3). Whoever stands for it, I'm looking for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law as it stands. I ask those Members of the House who are here for a positive sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. Deputies Mag. Alm, colleagues and I have tabled an amendment concerning Article 1(5). If you're right, I'm looking for a sign of that kind. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law as it stands. I ask those Members of the House who are here for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a sign on this point. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – That is unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[22:07:20]] 21. Point Report of the Committee on Research, Innovation and Technology on the Government Template (691 d.a._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Research and Technology Funding Act (Science Fund-Novelle 2015) (722 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e31083	We're going to the 21st. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr. Dr. Däderle, has been mentioned. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e31112	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! It welcomes a reform of the FWF, the Science Fund, to make a decision, in particular adapting the organisational structure of this fund to the new circumstances. It upgrades the Presidency and introduces a major business Vice-Presidentship. Liquidity management and controlling are improved. There is also a closer look at the material investments made by the FWF and other measures that make the FWF more modern and powerful overall. It was founded in 1968 on the basis of a research promotion law adopted in 1967, it has already undergone two smaller reforms and is now in progress through these new reforms to carry out its tasks even better. These tasks are very important for Austrian science and research. The FWF mainly promotes basic research, which we all know is a central driver of innovation. But this is not the only and not even the first reason why basic research is to promote, the most important reason is that it serves the central interest and drive of research, namely to gain new knowledge, of new knowledge. However, the FWF is also a guarantee of a very high quality of research, because it grants its funding for projects according to strict criteria that are reviewed, evaluated, reviewed, and then approved or not approved by international peer. Another very important feature of the FWF, which is sometimes overlooked, is that it promotes young researchers with its money, because most of the funds go into projects, and most of the projects are carried out in research groups where young researchers, i.e. doctoral students or post-docs, work on research projects. This is a very, very important source of funding for young researchers, adding another form, which can also be mentioned, namely the doctoral colleges. In this respect, however, it is planned that these successively be passed on to the universities. They are still running for a while, but should then be more situated in the universities themselves. The universities benefit greatly from this research funding in a wide variety of ways: especially in terms of quality, even on the basis of application strength – that is with a reason why we are enormously European – but also, of course, by helping to tighten university research profiles. It is known that the research fund has good resources, but that these resources can never be sufficient. They are constantly rising – they have risen as ministers in my time, they are rising significantly even now; the two financial periods 2013 to 2015 and 2016 to 2018 differ by almost 13 percent in increase of the funds that come from the ministry, but there are other resources as well. Nevertheless, the approval rate continues to decline. It simply has to do with the fact that more and more good applications are coming. The approval rate has reached 25.5 percent in 2014. It must be a great effort to increase this quota, which, with this low percentage, promotes a number of people, such as has never been supported – we have reached a maximum in 2014 –. It must be our concern, therefore, that the funds should be increased even further so that this allocation rate will again be slightly higher. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e31170	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled has been properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e31227	Next speaker: Mr Kucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e31248	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Denke has already said a lot about the Science Fund, and I can agree on almost every point today. There are few points where we do not agree. If it is not precisely about tuition fees and access restrictions, where we are also discussing quite hot, I believe there are many points that link us, including the future of the Science Fund. It is the central institution for the promotion of basic research in Austria, and today we put it on new legal-organisational legs with the revision of the Research and Technology Promotion Act. We have taken into account changed framework conditions regarding research funding, but we have also included best practice examples from international practice. There have been more than 30 suggestions from institutions in the assessment process, many of which have also been included. The Court of Auditors also dealt with the FWF a few weeks ago. There have also been some suggestions. For example, the Court of Auditors has found that the organisational provisions of the Research and Technology Promotion Act, which is relevant to the FWF, are extremely complex and suitable for slowing down procedures in the FWF. He also proposed that there be, as it were, restructurings on internal control. – Many of these criticisms of the Court of Auditors have already been included in this new law, in the novelle. Mr Dägenle has already explained the restructuring with the Bureau, the separation with a President/President from the scientific field and a commercial vice-president. These are also international examples from Germany, at European level, which we understand here in Austria. With today's innovation, we create the legal-organisational framework for a positive future. In any case, we will remain involved in the financing of basic research in Austria. This will, of course, continue to be the subject, because we have already discussed this very intensively with the Green Members. This is a subject that connects all of us.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e31286	Next, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek in word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e31309	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! In principle, I can agree with the words of Mr. Däderle. The FWF is one of the most important and central organisations in basic research in Austria, and we therefore find it extremely good that it should be organized and set up in the same way as it is now planned. We have an international environment in research, which has changed considerably. In the country too, changes in the research landscape have been noted, so has the FWF Bureau, the “old” Bureau, made a number of proposals which have now been incorporated into the new regulation. If I can list a few things that are particularly important to us by the liberals: There is, for example, a clear division of tasks. Anyone who sets up an organization knows this is the Um and A – together with clear processes and clear processes, how to make decisions. In addition, for the management of the change from the original honorary to a professionalization, of course according to the Public Corporate Governance Code. The whole is linked to a Supervisory Board that really deserves the name, and a strengthening of the Delegate Assembly, coupled with transparency. One would like to say at the first moment: Heart, what more do you want? Nevertheless, there are some memorable things that we would like to add, so to speak, a “notizzeterl” – under quotation marks – for the government, namely: The President, as is currently planned, – although there is a commercial vice-president – has a huge amount of administrative tasks. Perhaps you observe this in the first time and make immediately corresponding smaller adaptations, this should really have too bad an effect. I would like to thank the Secretary of State, but also the BMVIT, for the additions made after the review of the law. And I hope that with these changes, with this organisational rescheduling of the FWF, there can be a lot of positive for basic research in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e31341	Mrs Maurer is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e31362	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! The subject which is currently before the decision, namely the novel of the Research and Technology Promotion Act, has been decided positively by all the political groups after lengthy, quite complex discussions in the Committee. It has been discussed in a good way, particularly the 3. The Vice-President or Vice-President is concerned with all disciplines. And the committee, the Bureau, is not as inflated now as it was originally planned. There are some important changes which the Court of Auditors has also agreed on, particularly as regards the honorary role of the President/President. So, basically, we are in agreement with this law and we will also take part in it. The FWF is therefore on a stable footing, but it is financially on very poor legs, and I already have to take note with some pleasure of what motion for a resolution is now being submitted to us in the short term. We remember: A year ago, we discussed the threat that the FWF and the ÖAW could not be further financed or that the budget should be halved due to a complicated budget structure. Fortunately, this has been corrected – that is to say, the FWF is now on lower legs – but the volume he has available is far too low. Above all, as far as the figures are concerned, one has to say: What it's all about is how much money actually ends up with the researchers. – And there we had an amount of €628 million in the years 2013 to 2015, which the FWF has been able to grant, but this is only €552 million for the next three years. What is more, the money that the FWF used to receive in addition to the overheads is no longer being made available, but the universities now have to pay from their own budgets, from the university's structural funds. This construction is also totally problematic in total – and the abolition of the doctoral colleges is still coming. So the attempt to speak up on the FWF's budgetary situation here must fail. At its annual press conference, the FWF strongly warned of what will happen in the coming years, namely that the authorisation rate will break down in a massive way. We know that the universities are in a precarious financial situation, and that's why especially for young scientists of the FWF, they have a much greater meaning because they can finance their own posts. However, if the FWF now has fewer resources at its disposal and the overhead situation worsens, there will be much more applications – they are on the rise at the FWF anyway – and the authorisation rate will fall far below 20 percent. For this reason, the FWF has calculated the amount it needs to keep the authorisation rate: There is a lack of 257 million euros. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would now like to say a word on the request of the government groups. – I find this a bit strange: We have put the request in front of us with the following content: “The Federal Government is invited to support additional funding for the FWF Science Fund.” I wonder now that the government consists of SPÖ and ÖVP, one thing: For whom, in concrete terms, should the Federal Government now use more resources? Are there any higher places to beg or where you can make applications? – It is a political decision of this government not to finance the FWF sufficiently! I find this wording to be somewhat remarkable. Of course, it is clear to us why the request is now being made: You will reject my request. In international comparison, the situation is exactly the opposite: two thirds of basic research, one third applied research. With us, as we have said, it is reversed. This government has also decided to increase the research premium to 12 percent, which is €80 million. If one had given it to the FWF, this funding gap could have been closed. But this is where one sees the priorities of a minister of science who has united science and the economy in a department: It is clearly on the side of the economy and not on the side of basic research and science. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e31443	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e31511	Next speaker: Mr Ertlschweiger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e31532	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Much of what has been said today I emphasize thick and fat: It is true that basic research should be expanded, which is an important step, because excellently trained people and well-informed basic research are of fundamental importance for the innovative power of an economy. Basic research is the first step in this innovation value chain. Colleagued Teenle said it perfectly correctly: Basic research is the starting point for revolutionary new insights, for innovation and is primarily carried out by the companies of the economy, since it focuses primarily on application and economic exploitation. Ergo is very important that the state is there helpful and that public funds are increased so that enough money is available to researchers. The FWF, this Agency for the Promotion of Basic Research, has just been newly established, and we are very much in favour of this innovation. It has already been mentioned today: Many of the findings that have been taken into account have been taken into account in the review. The controlling has been improved, the administration has been improved – the FWF has become much more powerful, more efficient, and this, in my opinion, serves to make it even more professional in the future and to focus on the important issues of economic importance. If it still succeeds in streamlining and making the existing funding jungle more efficient, then you can be really proud and also look to the future with joyous courage. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e31571	The next item is the report by Mr Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e31593	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! I believe that an essential positive part of this novel is – and this is what we must honestly say – that a lot of things have been taken into consideration, and that there has been a willingness on the part of the ministry to talk to all the political groups and to introduce the appropriate ideas. I think that was very positive. In any case, Parliamentaryism can work better. – To the concrete things that are changed here. The Court of Auditors' criticism has been met: There is an internal controlling system that is now being installed, which makes a lot of sense. The upgrading of the Delegate Assembly in the FWF makes sense because this involvement can in any case also increase the accuracy of the key programme guidelines. On the other hand, there is the focus of the board of trustees on the decision on the research projects – and therefore hopefully also a faster resolution, which, of course, is in the interests of the applicants – and the conversion of the Supervisory Board into a truly functional body, which can then also fulfil the corresponding control obligations. In addition, there is also the maintenance of the Bureau with the assignment of Vice-Presidents to the respective fields of science and yet the clear definition of the executive position with the corresponding responsibility. The FWF will be structurally converted and, I believe, will be better prepared for its tasks in a more slender and efficient and structural manner. Nevertheless: What's missing, we've heard that, too, these are the means. There is something we must do, especially when we know that every cent that flows into such investment in the future, both in research, in science and in education, makes sense for the future. We will, of course, agree with Mr Maurer's request, including the request made by the government parties. Now it is not great, but it could also be assumed that the expression of living parliamentaryism is that the government parties here call on the Federal Government to do something. You could go out of it! [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Lightenecker.]] [[Abg. Lightenecker: An optimist in the round!]] In principle, we must use more money at the FWF, so we will agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e31637	Mr Mahrer spoke next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e31659	Madam President. High house! As in the previous law, I would like to begin by thanking all the participants: all members of the FIT Committee and their chairmanship, the team of Federal Minister Stöger in cooperation, but above all also the employees of our research section. The creation of this law was indeed a very good example of good cooperation. Here, too, a number of very exciting comments have been made during the assessment phase. Things from the Court of Auditors' audits have also been incorporated, and I believe that the Federal Government, together with the High House, is making a clear commitment to excellence and performance orientation in basic Austrian research. We thus receive a very modern structure for the FWF, which is also set up according to the most modern governance standards. It says, I believe, at the heart of the law – everything else has already been said in length. A point which we have also discussed in the FIT Committee and which is clearly heard: You should not believe everything you hear, Mrs Maurer – an old quote by Marcus Tullius Cicero, a great speaker also in parliamentary assemblies. The fact is that our budget for the FWF for the 2016–2018 performance period is increased by 13 percent compared to the 2013–2015 performance period, namely in figures – I have already said this in the Committee – from € 490 million to € 552 million. The funds are increased by 13 percent, in times when growth rates in other areas are not so high and in which such growth rates must always be publicly defended. Why? We also discussed this in committee: Because we make a clear commitment to basic research! It is also true that due to the number of applications made by the FWF, which increases – and this is an effect of the good work made by the FWF and the entire tertiary landscape, namely to produce very good and also by you repeatedly mentioned young researchers, which means that more teams make excellent applications – the situation becomes more competitive and we, as you rightly say, need to have much more money available to keep this quota. But I just don't like the impression that we'd give the FWF less money. On the contrary: We're giving more money than before. [[Abg. Maurer: That's wrong! The money for the overheads is falling away!]] . This will be re-examined on other measures, which we discussed in the Committee. You're looking at a picture that just isn't right. [[Abg. Maurer: The universities have to pay it out of their own budget!]] – No, that’s simply wrong, because it is financed by other pots. The fact is, we spend more money. You are right on this point: If we want to keep the quota, we need even more budget, but that is also true in many other areas. All the political groups here would like more budget. We'll stretch to the ceiling. I am sure I hear the words and I have heard the request that we should make a total commitment to increased budget resources. [[Abg. Brosz: Who?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Maurer: At Christkind?]] – For example, through means of the National Foundation, if we manage to obtain additional funds there. There are a number of measures that we are taking, and hopefully in the next few days, if we agree, we will send the law for non-profit foundations into consideration – there are a number of different sources that we can tap into – and there, too, we hope for the example of other countries that we can put funds in research and development like other areas. If you only believe in the Christian child, Mr. Brosz, that's nice. You're happy to beg for this. The government is doing good work together in the area of both coalition partners. [[Abg. Brosz: This is a request from the ÖVP!]] And you don't have to say we wouldn't do anything. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Brosz: The request is an increase in Parliament, really!]] That means you can try the Christian child. De facto we spend 13 percent more in the period. 13 percent in times like this for basic research can be seen. [[Abg. Brosz: “The Federal Government is invited to use additional funds” – this is a wavering!]] By the way, you also try to show that in some way we are endangering doctoral programs – with nothing! The honourable Member, former Federal Minister, knows this very well and has also done so: It's being restructured. There's no question at all about anything. That means: Don't let the wrong impression come about outside, don't insure our young researchers and young researchers by saying it's not more passionate at all. On the contrary, we invest in this area and create it new and future-proof. It's written to you in the main book: Doing cheap polemics on the back of basic research does nothing at all. On the contrary, we make a clear commitment to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e31787	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Straster. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e31808	Madam President. Estimated Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Technically, most of it has been said: The FWF is being reorganised. That is good, we make it fit to achieve new goals and want to generate value added and ultimately jobs in our country so that the economic location of Austria can continue to flourish on the basis of research activities, for which I believe we are internationally known. A great thank you to all Ladies and gentlemen, who work in this area, because I believe that great things are being done for our whole country in this sector. Mrs Maurer, I too may replicate; the Secretary of State has already done so. They seem to have criticised the warming of the request from the committee. Did I get that right? - That's right. I can replicate the same thing as in the Committee: In 2015, the FWF budgeted € 171.9 million, which is € 184 million in 2016 – an increase of 7 percent in this area. And that is, the Secretary of State has already said, in times like this, a nice increase rate. 38 current doctoral colleges, including the topic of your application, are secured. In May 2015, four new doctoral studies were approved, and in total, 20 to 30 million € per year will be invested for these doctoral studies. [[In between, call the abg. Maurer.]] – Do you do the same in the lecture, Mrs. Colleague? [[Abg. Tamandl:... yells for an order, Madam President!]] [[Abg. Lightenecker: What kind of aggressive mood is that?]] By the way, it is a good day for this area, because in the morning we decided on the research premium to receive a 12 percent research premium, together with the Financial Office and the FFG, for businesses, instead of 10 percent. In the course of the negotiations on tax reform, the Austrian Fund project was launched and now the reform of the FWF. Finally, I would like to express two wishes: That those ladies and gentlemen in this House, who always have a certain degree of gravity in mind and always tell us that the things that the Federal Government is doing or that are happening in Austria are not worth nothing, from this Austrian-Trauma, which I feel so much, Mrs Maurer, wake up a little. I wish all the other ladies and gentlemen, those with confidence in this country, that we work together to achieve our goals. – Thank you very much and very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e31878	The next item is the speech by Mr Antoni. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e31899	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! As mentioned several times, the Science Fund-Novelle 2015 aims, in addition to ensuring the legal and, in particular, constitutional conformity of the Research and Technology Promotion Act and improving liquidity management, above all at modernising the organisation structure of the Science Fund. In order to achieve these objectives, important measures have been taken. To highlight in this context is, among other things, the substantial strengthening of the Delegate Assembly. At present, the meetings of the Delegate Assembly are taking place on average twice a year. This ultimately means that formal feedback processes are limited. In the future, the delegates will be able to elect their own chairmen in order to determine the frequency of meetings themselves. Furthermore, the extension of the tasks has created an enhanced right of participation in the Delegate Assembly, which will contribute significantly to a better coordination between the Science Fund and the non-university and university research institutions. In my view, it is also common to welcome the strengthening of the Supervisory Board within the meaning of the enlargements of tasks and powers as well as of company law, while also considering the increased consideration of the Public Corporate Governance Code. The FWF's Supervisory Board is currently only very limited as a supervisory body. I think that by extending the statutory tasks and powers of the Supervisory Board, we have increased its scope for influence and thus also created a genuine monitoring body. Finally, to welcome and be welcomed is certainly the planned publication of the relevant information on the Internet. For example, the annual financial statements, the annual estimate, the Corporate Governance Report, will include: and the annual work programmes are published on the Internet. I think we are creating a modern structure with this novel, and we will be very happy to give this novelle our consent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e31941	Next speaker: Mr Bacher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e31963	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! As mentioned by most previous speakers, these science fund novelles are used to make structural changes that not only make organisational structures more modern but also accelerate decision-making and decision-making processes. As in many areas, time is an essential factor, and not least through new regulations and modernisations of organisational structures, decision-making processes are accelerated and thus more efficient. In the end, this also means a more efficient investment. Investing in research and innovation means investing in the future. One has the impression at the Science Fund-Novelle that this approach would be taken into account and that the structure would be more efficient. Whether this is actually the case will be shown in the evaluations in a few years. Nevertheless, the approaches are important and good, and we are confident that the development is going in a positive direction. The overarching goal of bringing Austria to the fore in research is a part on the way to research. I also see Austria through this novel – in addition to the extensive investments of BMVIT – especially as regards top-level research, on the way to the country of research. Important steps must be taken. This requires financial investment on the one hand, but also efficient structures on the other. In order to ensure these efficient structures, a member of the Bureau will be explicitly responsible for business matters and will ensure that there is no liquidity bottleneck. This puts the commercial component in the foreground, which is necessary, because without the financial resources in the focus, a system cannot operate and operate efficiently. This Decision shall also take account of this access. Developments around the structures of research have progressed rapidly over the last 50 years. Accordingly, the Science Fund is also affected. With this science fund novelle will respond to the experiences and changes of the past years and create a modern structure. That is why we agree with this amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, I still have to say: A good day of Parliament is about to end – that is why we decided on the tax reform in the morning, the largest tax reform in the Second Republic. This means that pensioners, employees and pensioners in this country remain more in the stock exchange, and that is a good thing.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e32009	A second time, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e32032	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! I have deliberately been waiting for something, as the request of the government groups has only arrived relatively close to me. I heard him, but I wanted to read it a little more carefully, which is exactly what leads to this contribution. Mr State Secretary, I do not make a murderer's pit from my heart: You've quoted wonderful from Catilina, but a little bit of something you've got to hold on: I can understand if you may not want Mrs Maurer's request because there are specific figures there. What are we supposed to propose to the government, Parliament, other than concrete figures?- Oh, my God! A direction can be written in a resolution, but what I don't understand, really and honestly I don't understand, is the following: If the government fractions themselves think and come up, well, it's kind of true, we already have a little money in there in the party – that's what you said yourself, and that's actually a government task; that would be the task of the executive that the competent rulers sit down and say, there we have a problem with the money, we do something! –, then why don't you do anything? The government groups speak to themselves! I don't know, you only need a doctor if you have visions, or if you already give yourself an assignment?- Oh, my God! Make I beg you to do honest, serious work! Do not self-esteem any papers in which there is nothing but a statement of intent! [[Abg. Kucher: But the State Secretary does not write any requests in Parliament, does he?]] For a statement of intent it would have been possible if you had said that we were trying! Everyone would have understood that. That's how I have to say: The intention is good, the intention is fair, more money for the FWF. Only, this method must be rejected for reasons of form. We shall therefore reject the request and support Mrs Maurer's request, although we know that: We need money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e32069	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 722 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the draft law to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That is unanimous. The draft law was therefore adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Himmelbauer, Mr Kucher, Mr Kucher, Mr President, on additional funds for the FWF Science Fund. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. (E 98.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Maurer, fellow Members, on the closure of the financial gap in the FWF. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[22:46:18]] 22. Point Report by the Committee on Research, Innovation and Technology on the proposal from Members Eva-Maria Himmelbauer, BSc, Philip Kucher, Dipl.-Ing. Gerhard Deimek, colleagues on Open Innovation Strategy (723 d.b.) 23. Point Report by the Committee on Research, Innovation and Technology on Amendment No 1162/A(E) by Mr Mag. Nikolaus Alm, colleagues on ‘500 Days of the Federal Government’. Do something! Open Innovation Strategy development and implementation” (724 d.e.c.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e32175	This brings us to points 22 and 23 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mrs Lichtenecker is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e32203	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) At the last meeting of the Committee on Research, Innovation and Technology, we had a very lively debate on innovation and how Austria is developing. That's good, because it's an important topic. Mr Strasser, there is no one among Members of Parliament who has an Austrian-Trauma, but we are entitled to worry, and that is how it is done. If you look at the European Commission's Innovation Union Scoreboard, you can see that we have lost a place every year in the ranking since 2009 and since 2009, when we started off the 6th place, we have fallen to 11th place. In that respect, we believe it is important to set up the appropriate initiatives. We believe that the two proposals also contribute to this. We will agree with and support the request made by Members Himmelbauer, Kucher and Deimek in this form. Nevertheless, there needs to be a broad debate on innovation and innovation processes in Austria, because of course innovation must be very diverse. It is not only about technical innovations or process innovations, but also about social innovations. Open innovation is about increasing innovation potential and accelerating innovation processes, and that is exactly what we need. We need speed and reforms here in Austria. That is exactly what our investments in the future have to do. But it also needs other reforms, reforms in the trade order. The question is: How can we bring out faster and better spin-offs from universities? How do we improve the framework conditions for modern start-ups and EPUs and small and medium-sized enterprises? These are a lot of anti-lock shoes that we have to deal with. And, of course, it also needs the will to shape the future. Finally, we need a common debate and joint initiatives, and we therefore propose that, together with all the political groups we represent here in Parliament, which are at the heart of the future of Austria, of businesses and of the citizens, we make a parliamentary survey on innovation and on how these processes will actually be designed in the future. We have many exciting new topics, I just call one keyword: Industry 4.0, or the very big challenges facing the door, from climate protection to demographic development. I am convinced that the Secretary of State is certainly also interested in participating in this joint parliamentary survey on innovation.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e32260	Reported as follows: Mrs Himmelbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e32281	Madam President. Estimated Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Traditional innovation theory mainly speaks of innovation in a closed system. So the innovator, according to Schumpeter, is the creative entrepreneur, where the company, for example in a R & D lab, but perhaps also in the garage, is innovated. Open innovation, on the other hand, means the interaction of different disciplines, where one collects knowledge, but also gives up again, where one also binds people from outside and simply makes them available. This is about creating added value to enable and build products and services close to the consumer. But it is also a question of taking risks. I think there is nothing better than that there are disruptive innovations made in Austria. As a policy, of course, we also want to put in place measures here to open up the innovation process. This means actively contributing to image formation, but also to the economy, science, civil society, giving the right tools to work together to innovate, and also to carry expertise to the outside and inside. I do not want to leave the public area out there. I think there are very good examples, even if one looks beyond the national borders, of how public authorities, politics, administration, even innovation can promote open innovation. Challenge.gov, for example, is an American project where questions, problems, ideas can be posted and the public can simply talk and participate. But of course there are also good examples in Austria. A good example that I have just looked at yesterday is from the Ludwig Boltzmann Institute, Open Innovation in Science, which has also taken this path. So there are quite good examples, but I think the potential is not exhausted, there is air up. That means we can do a lot of things there, too. To Mr Alm's request: I told you personally, of course, already in June, with the explanations I do not have my greatest joy. Of course, you can write what you want, but you can't expect the government parties to agree. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] However, we have found the basic idea very positive and, above all, has been extended in the direction that we say that something like this should then be presented to the National Council, and that within a year. One year, I believe, is a good time frame where measures can be drawn up here, but in turn they can be set up with industry, science and civil society. [[Abg. Loacker: don't do anything!]] I see this with Mr Mahrer in very good hands, wish him all the best and look forward to the results.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e32327	Next speaker: Mr Ertlschweiger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e32348	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, Much has already been done. What does Open Innovation mean? – This includes the opening up of innovation activities and processes beyond the boundaries of innovative companies, the involvement of stakeholders in the environment that can contribute to innovation. Open innovation is important, no question at all, because the increase in knowledge is becoming increasingly rapid, it is going all over the world. Even large companies can now only develop a small part of the innovations they consider relevant to their own companies. Therefore, companies are increasingly building on cooperation with universities, with non-university R&D organizations, with start-ups, key customers, subcontractors et cetera. Open innovation is important, ladies and gentlemen. However, it is not the original matter of politics or government. The original task of politics is to create framework conditions. No politician has ever created a job, and the Secretary of State mentioned it at the end of the day only one thing: Jobs. Innovation creates jobs, ladies and gentlemen, and Austrian policy is called on to create framework conditions. We've heard it today, too. With the F&E quota of 3 per cent, we are not so bad in the European field. The problem we have is that we generate too little output with the resources we use. We need to see that we are more output-oriented, that the resources used are more effective, and then we will not fall back into the rankings – whether that is the Innovation Union Scoreboard or the Global Competitiveness Report of the WEF. In my opinion, an improved economic and FTI policy involves streamlining and focusing public funding on key issues of economic importance. We have heard today how important it is to strengthen basic research, as well as new forms of financing and investment for SMEs and start-ups and, above all, support for these start-ups and SMEs in the areas of innovation management. In my opinion, policy should focus on creating the right framework. Open innovation is important, but, as I said, there are also many, many other things that it is important to implement here. If we get under control of the framework conditions and make Austria attractive to companies that are setting up here that operate innovation, then I also believe that, in future, not only the location attractiveness will gain, but at the end of the day, we will also find out what the Secretary of State wants, namely jobs for people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e32394	Next word reported: Mr Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e32415	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, the essential key points of the request have already been presented. It is true, we know that globalisation and the increasingly shorter product life cycles of competitive pressure are constantly increasing, and thus innovation pressure. Open innovation or open innovation concepts describe the appropriate use of knowledge that flows into and penetrates a company, using internal and external marketing channels to generate innovations. – I think the definition is simply important because I often feel that when you talk about a topic, people have different approaches. I am convinced that in a smaller, open economy, such as ours, the exchange of knowledge is a crucial factor, if not the crucial factor for a successful future. Open innovation is a crucial prerequisite for making Austria an innovation leader. Or, greatly shortened: We need to strengthen innovation. I am pleased to say that the current government programme contains a clear commitment, which, Mr State Secretary, is a very great concern for you to push forward this open innovation, and I believe that we can also give the appropriate emphasis to Parliament's request. This is the proposal that we are deciding today, which was a broad majority in the Research Committee and which calls on the government to present this concept in a year, I believe, in order to deserve support not only from a majority but from all Members. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e32452	Next word reported: Mr Mag. Alm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e32474	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! The logic is relatively simple: Innovation leads to employment, innovation is a hygiene factor for employment and is now necessary. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] We've heard it several times: Austria is sleeping down in the rankings, Austria is an innovation follower; we want to open up to the Innovation Leaders. Policy must also provide the basis for ensuring that pensions remain safe. We did this on 20 June. In May, an application was made for Austria to develop and implement an open innovation strategy. We obviously threw a little over the road map provided for by the government parties and the Secretary of State, because on 1 January, we had a lot to do with it. June there was a rather lavish garden festival at the Julius Raab Foundation, where an open innovation strategy for Austria was presented. I brought them – it's a fine document, there's nothing to do with it. Now, of course, the ÖVP had to come with its own application so that, so to speak, the order could be made to the government. That is, to my request, a wordless request from the government parties was joined by the last committee. The request of the government parties was accepted, I was rejected. Explain, I think no one can. I'd have a little more time: If someone has an explanation, he'll be happy to give him back here! - Childish, jealous. [[Abg. Steinhauser: Childish!]] [[Abg. Lightenecker: Jealous!]] [[Abg. Stroll: Copy force!]] - Copy pressure, yes. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] Perhaps we can save ourselves from such games the next time and make a common proposal, which fits everyone, then we do not have to agree to an application and reject a wordless one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e32546	Next word: Mr Dipl.-Ing. Deimek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e32567	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Don't look seriously, it's all right. Why we went along with this request from the beginning, have deliberately included ourselves and worked on it and so on, has quite simply a reason: An open innovation strategy, without now wanting to discuss patents regarding the invention of applications and so on, is necessary. And now, when you break down the whole from the perspective of the state to that of companies: It is a real basic technology and basic culture to be open to innovation. You have to switch from the so-called emergency-invented-here, from jealousy to the Proudly-found-elsewhere – even if it is English, my colleagues will forgive me – you just have to change the culture. [[Cheerfulness of the Moser and Strolz Members]] It is a cultural and a change of thinking, and one must also, in fact, move to what has been so much liked by my colleague Matznetter from the SPÖ, this crowdsourcing, often also emphasizes like the herb house. But you just have to look at what there are good ideas in other good companies, even in other good countries, about innovations. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] If we raise this now to the level of the state, to the higher-level regions: We need appropriate platforms! In small cases, the main table can be with the companies and so on, but where it concerns the states, where it concerns the countries responsible for many companies, we need appropriate platforms to get back to where we were before. Let's think back to the middle of the 18th century. 19th century: Central Europe, the German sector has gleamed with German engineering, Austrian engineering, mechanical engineers, construction engineers. [[Abg. Moser: learn S’ story! 18. Twentieth!]] Then we have a little sleep in the virtual revolution – not a bit, quite neatly – and now we should sleep in 21. In the 19th century, when we connect engineering with the virtual, whether it's Industry 4.0 or as always. We need every effort to get there. I therefore welcome the fact that, if you develop the strategy, you will also have a time frame. – Mr Alm, this may be a way to think about why the one and not the other request... Second point: submit to the National Council. What do we have as the opposition party if the government parties write themselves a paper somewhere and say: We're great and we're the best!? - We want to see it here. We want to discuss it here. Mr State Secretary, a little memory – you know, the innovation of the notebook here from the speaker’s desk –: Don't forget the ACR! It is in your ministry, it also belongs to one of these platforms, where there are opportunities to exchange ideas, of course related to smaller businesses. But I think Austria needs this strategy, Austria needs this paper. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e32619	Next come Mrs. Dr.ck.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e32640	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! We have set ourselves a very ambitious goal in the FIT sector, namely to open up to the leading innovation nations by 2020. This is not going to be a Sunday walk, but it is an absolute necessity, because only increasing our innovative power is our future insurance in order to keep our high wage level and our high social level. Global competition for growth, employment and prosperity is getting harder. Think of the dynamic development in the Asian region, from the education system in South Korea to the Asian trade agreements! But I am speaking only of the purely Asian trade agreements, which account for 40 percent of world trade, not to mention Asia-USA agreements. With a research rate of 3 percent, we have achieved a higher level than the EU cut, but we still have a huge potential to increase output. It is therefore necessary to further develop the innovation system. Innovation must be the credo throughout our society, and Austria has proven in history that it is possible to generate significant innovations such as the Vienna Modernism or the Vienna Medical School by combining different disciplines and cultures. Now it is necessary to leave the comfort zone – traditional methods and domestic resources will not be enough. We already have working approaches – I only refer to the cluster country – and we also have technology centres that fulfill the innovation mission, but we in Upper Austria also have open technology laboratories for everyone, the so-called OTELO, but also various companies that are very successful in crowdsourcing. Interesting in this context is also the Open Innovation initiative for SMEs in South Tyrol, which we should also look at more closely! Now it is necessary to extend this interdisciplinary cooperation and create a framework for development. Mr State Secretary, you have long since been President of the Julius Raab Foundation on this subject. We in the Economic and Social Union have also been dealing with this issue for a very long time. I am pleased that we are now entering the political implementation in which we are very happy to support you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e32682	Mr Mahrer has now spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e32704	Mr President. High house! Dear Niko Alm! I don't think that's a beauty competition. I can wash my hands in innocence, too. Many in Austria have been dealing with the subject for a long time, and this is a good thing, whether this is the innovation department of the ÖBB or the Voest, or whether these are many small and medium-sized enterprises that are research-oriented – the area ACR has been addressed. That is a good thing, and we also need to lift this potential for innovation. There have been discussions with Mr Muchitsch or others over the past few months, where we have repeatedly noted that, in the field of digitalization, 20 000 to 30 000, or perhaps even more, 35 000, highly qualified jobs are at risk, we should not let that happen and do not raise the potential for innovation that we have in the country in very different areas – even with Wolfgang Katzian, we have discussed this recently – but in reality we must all agree on one line, in the same way that we can secure these jobs and in the future create others, driven by digitization. As a small, open economy – and I agree immediately and join with what honourable Member Mayer has done – which earns €6 of €10 of its gross value added on the export markets, we have nothing else left. Innovation – you have referred to it – Where, then, is the big competition taking place, and why should we not shut down all these changes? – I said it in the FIT Committee: At $285 billion, which China spent last year on research and development, and with a planned increase to 480 billion by 2019 and to 600 billion by 2022, the level of the European Union will be reached in 2019 and the level of the US in 2022 – this is more than a doubling! This is – and many may not see this – a total shift in the geotectonic innovation potential of the USA and Europe towards China. In other words, we must make every effort to raise all the innovation potential that exists in this country at all levels. This is not only about basic research and applied research, but also about the whole area of social innovation and a lot of innovation potential in the field of SMEs and industry in the area of employees we have not yet raised. It is therefore a Community, participative, deeply participation-oriented strategy. And if we, the Government and Parliament together, succeed in putting this to the fore in a broad debate next year and in the coming year I believe that this is a very good thing in the sense of the Austrian industry, the Austrian middle class and its employees, because at the end of the day it is about jobs of the future and about prosperity in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e32752	Mrs Yılmaz has just given her the last speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e32770	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! As the last speaker, one always bears responsibility, which is why in a short time: Ladies and gentlemen, the Federal Government has a research strategy and, in addition, the Open Innovation Strategy, which is integrated into the research strategy. It is important to ensure that this access to research results will create networks for companies and will provide them with information and innovative ideas that would otherwise not be accessible to them. The integration of all research areas is equally important. Of course, the 2014 Research Report was a topic in the last Committee on Research, Innovation and Technology. In 2014, we were very good at our research rate, but we must make every effort to reach the target rate of 3.7 percent in 2020. Ladies and gentlemen! I don't want to stretch your social tolerance too much, wish you all a nice evening and hope we'll see you tomorrow.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e32808	I hope so, too, ladies and gentlemen. No one is reported in the word anymore. I'll close the debate. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. Vote on agenda item 22 on the resolution on Open Innovation Strategy attached to the Committee's report 723 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this sign to do so. – This is accepted by the majority. (E 99.) Vote on agenda item 23 on the request from the Committee on Research, Innovation and Technology to take note of its report 724 of the supplements. Whoever is for that, please give a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. The agenda is exhausted. [[23:13:45]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2015-07-07-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00083_d8e32869	I am still announcing that in today's session, the self-employed applications were submitted 1247/A(E) to 1274/A. Questions 5811/J to 5878/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 23:15 a.m., immediately following this meeting. This meeting is closed.
