ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e3482	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to open the 96. Meeting of the National Council. I should like to welcome Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Dr Heinz Fischer, in our midst. [[General condolences.]] I also welcome the members of the Austrian Federal Government. The official protocols of 94 and 95. Meeting of 6. In October 2015, the Parliament's management remained inconvenient and undisputed. As prevented, MEPs are reported ing. Hackl, Podgorica, Julian Schmid and Doppler. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e3529	Federal Chancellor Werner Faymann is represented by Vice Chancellor Dr. Reinhold Mitterlehner. [[Congratulations and bravado with the ÖVP.]] The Federal Chancellor's Office for the Representation of Members of the Federal Government who are present in another Member State of the European Union has also made the following statement for this meeting: The Federal Minister for Art and Culture, Constitution and Media Dr. Josef Ostermayer will be represented by the Federal Minister for Education and Women Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek from 3 p.m. [[10:03:30]] Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e3586	The Federal Electoral Authority has received the notice that the Deputies are Magistrates. Beate Meinl-Reisinger has renounced her mandate and has been appointed to the National Council by Ms Claudia Angela Gamon in her place. Since the election permit is already in place and the person mentioned is present in the house, I will immediately make their fishing observation. After reading the vow formula by writing, the mandater will have to do her fishing with the words “I promise”. I am now seeking the author, Mr Buchmayr, to read the vow formula.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e3622	“They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your obligations.”
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e3644	I promise.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e3659	Mrs Gamon, I very much welcome you in our midst. [[General condolences.]] [[10:04:48]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e3688	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text:
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e3818	In accordance with § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, the request made by the honourable Member's written question 6758/J, which was put to the agenda before the entry into force of the agenda. Loacker, ladies and gentlemen to the Federal Minister for Labour, Social Affairs and Consumer Protection concerning: The partnership of the standstill destroys jobs to be dealt with urgently. Under the Rules of Procedure, the urgent question will be discussed at 3 p.m. I announce that the meeting will be held from ORF 2 to 1 p.m. and from ORF III in full length. [[10:05:56]] There is a statement on the Rules of Procedure. Please, Mr Klubobmann Lugar.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e3864	Thank you. – In accordance with § 59 of the Rules of Procedure and on the occasion of the budget speech today, I am referring to business treatment, namely that we have put a question to the budget service in August. The budget service has received very little or no information from the competent ministry since August and has given reasons for this in its written statement by referring on the one hand to the budget speech here today or to the final budget and on the other hand to the right of interconnection on the other. It is true, however, that we in the Committee have unanimously decided that the budget service can ensure monitoring of Members. Now it seems that the Ministry has refused this information, and that is why we need a more detailed discussion of this issue, because we want to achieve accompanying control with this budget service. For this reason, I propose to hold a debate here on the fact that Parliament can finally carry out its control tasks and that the Ministry does not continue to prevent the budget service from passing on information to us.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e3897	Are there any further comments on the Rules of Procedure? If that is not the case, I shall immediately vote on this request for a debate on Agenda item 1. I would like to ask those Members who are in favour of holding a debate on item 1 on the agenda to have a sign of approval. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[10:07:56]] Application in accordance with § 69 para. 3 GOOD
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e3931	It is my request according to § 69 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure to take the Government paper on the Federal Finance Act 2016 and Appendices (820 of the Supplements) at first reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[10:08:01]] Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e3960	The debate on points 5 to 7, 8 to 12, 13 and 14, 15 and 16, 18 and 19 and 21 to 23 of the agenda is proposed. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. We are going into the agenda with this. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e3984	Consensus on the duration of the debate was reached between the members of the presidential conference. Accordingly, a day block time of 8 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP per 108 minutes, FPÖ 100 minutes, Green 84 minutes, NEOS and STRONACH per 44 minutes. According to § 57 para. 7 Rules of Procedure shall be the speaking time for the entire agenda of those Members who do not belong to a club within 22 minutes of this Decision. In addition, the speaking time of Members who do not belong to a club is limited to 5 minutes per debate. We shall now proceed to the vote on the speaking time just presented. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign in this regard. – This is unanimously accepted. [[10:09:20]] 1. Point Declaration by the Federal Minister for Finance on the Government Template on the Federal Finance Act for 2016, including investments
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e4031	We're now on the 1st. Debates of the European Parliament I give the floor to Mr. Federal Minister for Finance Dr. Schelling. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e4055	Dear Austrians! Estimated President of the Federal Republic of Germany! Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! First of all, I should like to ask the President of the Federal Republic of Germany and you, Madam President, to see to it that I first welcomed the Austrians. Then: They are the source of all the money we have taken in this budget form, so I wanted to address them first. [[I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report.]] 408 days ago I took up the office of the Minister of Finance, and of course I quickly realized that this is not an easy task. And if you look above all at the framework conditions under which the 2016 budget was to be created, you know that this task was a particularly difficult one under these circumstances. It should be noted that not all the characters of the time have been recognized. There are still many people – including politicians and politicians – who are hiding behind the truth. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: heads of state!]] [[Abg. Lugar: That means “before the truth ” and not“ behind the truth ”!]] – Mr Lugar, on which side, front or back, you stand, is completely indecisive! [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] I am Vorarlberger, so come in front of the mountain – to tell you this briefly. I can tell you, my Ladies and gentlemen, from numerous discussions that I, when I'm on the go, report that people have long been far beyond politics in their views. And I'll tell you: The truth is reasonable to people! Yes, I even go so far that I say: It is our duty to give pure wine to the people! [[Abg. Kickl:... at the refugee question!]] I have always known that I will present a budget based on solid data. Only in this way, ladies and gentlemen, can politics become credible again! Policy must restore confidence in people, because this trust is crucial to whether we are successful or not. To be successful, ladies and gentlemen, that has many components. One of them is a very special one, the first step in the direction of success. It does not matter in any way to the length of the first step, but to whether the direction of the first step is the right one. And with the now presented budget 2016, which you can see here in its complete structure and abundance, we are taking the right step in the right direction. The objectives are clear: We want to relieve tax payers massively and specifically. We as the Federal Government have set ourselves the goal of sound budgeting. And above all, we want to bring Austria back to a success course or to a growth course and thus bring Austria back to the top, wherever this country belongs. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The key figures of this budget are committed to payments of around €72 billion and approximately €77 billion in payouts. This corresponds roughly to what this House has decided in the framework of the Federal Financial Framework Act. This, especially when looking at these figures in the long run, shows – and I stay and will say that again and again: Austria has an expenditure problem – and no revenue problem! [[Assured by the ÖVP and by the honourable Member, Mr Schieder and Mr Strolz.]] But what has been achieved in compliance with strict discipline – and I believe we must also present this – is that we will be able to achieve well the key points that are set out in relation to the criteria for the deficits. We will have a Maastricht deficit of 1.94 per cent, and this Maastricht deficit is forecast to be 0.5 per cent lower in 2016. However, we continue to have – and it is important to recognize this – a too high government debt that does not give us the scope we need for future investment. We plan with this budget – and will realize it, my dear friends Ladies and gentlemen – in the third year a structural zero deficit. This budget is, therefore, far more than just a few pages full of sobering figures, but rather it is about putting everything not only among revenue and expenditure, but among the key figures of Brussels. As Minister of Finance, I see my primary duty to deal with the tax money of citizens. This is my responsibility – the responsibility for Austria, the responsibility for our grandchildren, but also the responsibility for taking action far beyond the next election date, in order to have a government budget that we can consider to be consolidated. With this budget, ladies and gentlemen, the first step has been taken. Many further reform steps must and will follow, because only in this way will we bring Austria to the top of the trail and thus back to the top. I went to a coffee house in St. Pölten a few days ago and sat there, there an older lady of my age came to me and told me that she had read that I became a grandfather, and told me that she had three grandchildren herself, and then she thought she was worried whether the prosperity we have today would still be available for the grandchildren. [[Rejoicing]] [[Abg. Kickl: Right!]] I say: It is the task of policy to take action to ensure this! Why are people insecure? – First, because the effects of the economic crisis are still not completely eliminated. Secondly – and this is what the figures show – because we suffer so massively from the hypo disaster that we have too little money at our disposal for future investments. And thirdly, investors and the population lack confidence in the future. All these are very unfavourable conditions for the preparation of the 2016 budget. Nevertheless, my dear ones Ladies and gentlemen: It's not all as bad as it's said by some. Austria is a beautiful country. Austria is a safe and peaceful country. We are a country with highly innovative entrepreneurs. We are a country with creative minds and diligent people. And we are a country that is considered to be a country of great living, a country of high quality of life. We can be proud of this – that should be said too. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] We just have to stop talking bad. We must refer above all to the positive sides, because they are the foundation and the basis for achieving the goal of bringing Austria back to the top. [[Call the FPÖ:More performance!]] - That's a good hint. I would like to write to all representatives of interest in the parent book: Do not continue to be part of the problem, be part of the solution! [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ and NEOS.]] We can proudly point out that we are – and this also proves the numbers – on the road. Then: We have more foreign investment than ever before, and there are many international companies that want to invest in Austria, not least because of the framework conditions, such as the increase in the research funding premium or other framework conditions that are not available in the rest of Europe. However, it is undisputed that Austria is falling back in some areas – for example, in competitiveness, where we need to catch up. If you look more closely at why this is so, you can see: This is partly due to the possibilities of financing, especially those of the small and medium-sized economy, which are not very positive compared to other European countries in Austria. International and national institutes point out that the lack of efforts to secure pensions and reforms on the labour market and in the administration are a danger to Austria. In addition, the high tax and tax burden harms the location and hinders our competitiveness, and the superfluous bureaucracy takes air from our businesses. That means: We must not push the blame on others, but we are required to do our homework. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We had an economic growth of 0.4 percent in 2014. In Germany it was four times as high, and in other countries like Ireland it was the thirteenfold. Thank God the figures and forecasts for 2016 are better. Austria is to go back to the European section of the eurozone – and this is also shown by the economic researchers' forecasts on economic growth. – That helps, but it’s not enough! At the same time, we are far from where we want to be, and we must not do anything in any way, that is to say, to get ourselves at ease. I plead that the location of Austria must return to the Champions League; we should not be satisfied with the Regional League East! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek: Nothing against the regional league!]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, the next few years are crucial. I am confident that in Austria, which I know, the sleeves will be cremated when the framework conditions fit. The creation of a framework is the task of policy, and with this budget we are dealing with these things. However, we must make further reforms, we must continue to reduce debt, we must name things by name and not let them go until we have achieved this goal of playing in front of us. You see: This initial situation has faced three major challenges when it comes to budgeting. Three priorities are taken into account in the present budget: Firstly, this is a specific relief for taxpayers. With over €5 billion, there is no nearly that big position that had to be moved in a budget. If we talk about increases of €5 million or €10 million somewhere, this also leads to appropriate discussions. However, we have moved €5 billion here and – I am still going to go through it – we have financed solidly against it. Secondly, there is an orderly household – despite the strained labour market situation and rising costs in the social systems sector. Thirdly, there is a need to stimulate growth and employment through this budget. In addition, the issue that I am going to address at the moment is a major one which Europe has faced since the middle of this year is a new one, namely the situation in relation to the flows of refugees. All these challenges now had to be put into the figures of this budget. I am concerned that Austria is kept healthy from the inside. We have already put in place targeted measures to strengthen the economic location. Take the example of increasing the research premium from 10 percent to 12 percent. If you discuss this with the research-intensive companies, you can find that they are happy about it and grateful for it and very accurately say that this measure leads to locations being held in Austria. And many of these companies believe that the research premium and the location as a research location are as important as the philosophy where the headquarters are located. – That’s why this has been a right and good decision. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The education budget has been increased. The universities receive additional funds. In order to promote employee participation, the tax exemption was increased from €1 460 to €3 000 per year. We will launch a housing programme with 10,000 apartments as a housing offensive, and we will support digitisation as a future challenge for the site through the broadband initiative, which will be supported by €300 million this year. As a learned entrepreneur, I tell you honestly: I would have liked to see a much wider and faster reform, but here too, the first step must always be taken. We therefore agreed to a clear reform plan as the Federal Government. The first results are available in the meantime; further and must follow. The tax reform, ladies and gentlemen, is €5.2 billion the largest pieces to be taken into account in the budget for next year. In advance, I had to listen to many concerns: Is the time for tax reform correct? Is the economic situation not too difficult? Does counter-financing stop? Will it need a savings package? The Federal Government has made itself very serious, ambitious and committed itself with much commitment to the implementation and has delivered itself on time and success contrary to the unacknowleds of many self-proclaimed experts. This has been worthwhile because the core of this discharge package is the redesign of the tax rates. The entrance tax rate between €11 000 and €18 000 will be reduced to 25 percent, even fulfilling what this Parliament has decided to go “in the direction” of 25 percent. – We went to 25 percent! The peak tax rate applies only from € 90 000. Interestingly, this is considered to be an example at European level, and I am also concerned with tangible effects, which are seen above all as positive signals for the Austrians, to whom, ladies and gentlemen, this discharge through the tax reform is also due! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] With this tax reform, however, we have also begun to deflate red tape. I would like to mention just two examples that will come directly to the citizens: Together with the competent minister Karmasin, I have launched the “Unsolicited Family Aid” project. This is already happening, and if you want to express it this way, you can say: 80,000 children per year are now born into a less bureaucratic Austria. – That is, I think, a very good news. Next, we will realize the automatic employee charge, in which we give back to people the money that is also available to them. – I think these are two good examples of how we and I understand simplification and debureaucratisation. Many such measures will have to follow. All, from apprentices to entrepreneurs, benefit from this tax reform. The price relief alone brings the average earner and the average earner – I think that is already very significant – €1 000. Now this is also spoken by many. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] You can take the test yourself and look into your own wallets, which one of you has just inserted 1 000 €! – That will hardly be anyone, for that is a lot of money! And I think only to argue that this is nothing is not the way the Austrians deserved! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Let us also start by thinking more about this collective reform. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] I assume, Mrs Belakovich, you have put in 1,000 €! [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: No!]] It was just a question. [[Abg. Kickl: He could have needed it well.]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] Yes, we could have needed it well! That's right! These 1 000 € are a lot, and I'm not going to let that go! This question of the need for this discharge must be considered in a further dimension: One has to think in the dimension that we are achieving economic effects: This collective reform and the accompanying measures will bring positive economic effects, as in the meantime confirmed by all the institutions. Just yesterday, the WIFO stated that, in the field of consumption, tax reform will bring us to a significantly higher level of growth. Therefore, the objectives that we have pursued with this reform, namely to increase growth and employment, to strengthen purchasing power in order to boost consumption, are fully implemented, and that is exactly what the Austrian site needs to achieve in order to achieve what we have formulated as targets. Everyone who knows me knows: I'm not willing to distribute tax sugar to another generation. Rather, we need to counter-finance so firmly that the fiscal reform does not have any impact in the budget. I recall that this counter-financing is based on a self-financing effect of almost €900 million. Furthermore, we have put in place structural measures in tax law of € 900 million. In addition, we have already made savings in funding and administration of €1.1 billion. This cost brake is now being pursued in the long term, so that overall administrative savings of €3.3 billion will be achieved by 2020. In addition, we have chained a moderate solidar package with €400 million and used it to combat tax and social fraud 1.9 billion. In total, this sounds like a lot at first. However, it is only 1.3 percent of all taxes and taxes. And I think that if you look at that, it's very realistic that we're going to do it. Together, counter-financing measures give rise to a balanced and balanced overall package. I believe that with this tax reform, the Federal Government has set an example of how to successfully implement a reform and Fairly distribute the burdens. I am quite open, ladies and gentlemen: I would have liked us to make even more of a discharge, but this prevents us from having the debt ratio of 85 percent. We have a net financing requirement in this budget of € 5.1 billion. This is more than 1.9 billion compared to 2015. However, the main elements come from those areas that we actually need to teach: These are the areas of the labour market, asylum and pensions, and also the subject that we have still generated too little growth in relation. Nevertheless, we must continue to achieve this goal of reducing public debt consistently, because if we need room for urgent investment in the future, then we must try to bring debt to an acceptable level. And I say, We will not be able to do this one-dimensionally. I am always talking about rehabilitating the budget on growth. – Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, if you want to get from 85 percent of government debt to 60 percent of government debt only through growth, you have to generate 3.6% growth for ten years. – We cannot assume that this is unrealistic, and therefore we need a course on which to solve this problem through smart savings and, on the other hand, through innovation and growth impulses. If we do not solve this problem, ladies and gentlemen, it will only be bigger. In a household like the Austrian State budget, it is at your home as in the household: Everything you buy, you also have to finance. And this principle must also be applied to the State. The additional expenditure in the household, at home or in the state must be counter-financed. That's what's going on and it's been hard workin' on. All resorts were required to take many – even unpleasant – steps to create a balanced budget. At this point, I can thank all the employees of my home and all employees of the resorts. I would like to thank, above all, the Members of the Government Bank for the constructive talks so that this budget could be drawn up in this way. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I said at the beginning: We will achieve the Maastricht objectives by 1.4 percent and the structural deficit by 0.54 percent. But I also know what discussion will break out; we have this discussion every year. But perhaps those who critically examine these figures should also consider what they said two years ago, what they said and what has not happened! . I support the fact that these numbers are calculated serially and will be maintained accordingly. A proof that we are on the right track is that for the third time we are planning this structural zero deficit, which was an extremely difficult task under these conditions. A look at the budget now shows that the situation was actually marked by the need for iron discipline in order to realize that, at the same time, we set specific priorities, with the principle of: We save ourselves and invest where it is bringing the country and where everyone benefits. I can present the substantial changes in the budget compared to the previous year to you in an overview: In the area of law, security and international affairs, the funds have been significantly increased. Austria is one of the safest countries in the world, thank God. This is due to the good work of our police officers, who are now performing extraordinary achievements again in this difficult situation. In the field of interiors, the 2016 estimate is therefore €497.7 million above the estimate for 2015. This has to do with the additional expenditure on refugees, which I will address separately, but also with the security package for which €72 million has been decided. That means, ladies and gentlemen, This federal government will certainly not save security for citizens! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Our country – which we have proved many times – has a very good, indeed rather excellent reputation in the world. This also includes a good strategy to best represent Austria's interests abroad. For example, Iran's nuclear negotiations in Vienna were successful. Austria is also an excellent address as an important international headquarters. The world is looking back at Austria, so we invest €428 million in foreign policy. New priorities could be developed in this area. In the course of the Russian crisis, it became clear that we need new markets. The decision to join new institutions such as the Asian Development Bank is probably considered. The purpose of this vehicle is to manage orders for Austrian companies in Asia and finally open new markets. International solidarity is important to us. Therefore, the funds for the foreign disaster fund will be increased to € 20 million and thus quadrupled. Development cooperation grants have been increased by €15 million. Our federal army, ladies and gentlemen, successfully fulfils its national defence, international operations and disaster aid tasks under difficult conditions. With border protection, the German army is making an important contribution. I would like to thank the soldiers for their excellent cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior and the NGOs in the current situation. In this budget, the Federal Army receives a special investment package of €96 million for the renewal of equipment. A major reason for the success of our site is justice. The total budget of justice will be €1.3 billion. The biggest area we had to achieve in the budget is the area of work, social affairs, health and family. In order to secure our social systems, we invest almost 50 percent of the total budget. Hardly any other country in the world invests so much money in social security: That's about €39.7 billion! The theme of work reaches €944 million in multi-payments in this budget compared to the 2015 estimate. The focus is on unemployment benefits and active labour market policies. Due to the economic situation, we have increased the benefits to €250 million for older workers in 2016 and € 250 million for 2017 and, at the same time, provided the opportunity to expand the workforce in order to be able to use the funds flexibly. The stability of our social network, in particular the safeguarding of care, is particularly taken into account in the budget. For example, in 2016 in the field of social and consumer protection, €50 million is estimated to be more than this year. The same applies to the health system. We have an excellent health system, and the health system is being further developed. We have provided 86 million € in the health budget. Similarly, family support was increased by 1.9 percent, so that next year we estimate about €64 million more for the family sector, and we want to take particular account of our responsibility as a family-friendly country. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] We have also provided € 15 million for language early promotion. Now on a topic of particular importance for the future of this country, namely education, research, art and culture. We estimate in the field of education and women, despite the problems we have known in the education budget of recent years, for the coming year € 106.4 million more. [[Abg. Lugar: How much is missing?]] For science and research, a total budget of €4.28 billion will be available for 2016 to implement the decided increase in the university budget as well as that for the high school sector. The research rate, ladies and gentlemen, is increasing for the first time to over 3%, and there will be an increase in many European countries such as Sweden or Finland, where research quotas are stagnating or even declining. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] As a high technology location, we also need appropriate top forces. Therefore, we provide €160.2 million to universities. We will provide further funds from the Austrian Fund. This is the fund in which the proceeds of the peak tax rate are deducted from € 1 million and are guaranteed for such a business. More places of study at the university are available for 16.7 million €. Of course, the €100 million for basic research, which has already been promised, will remain fully up-to-date in 2016. Austria, however, is also a cultural nation, and we also let it cost us a little bit. That is why we will also increase the cultural budget by 15.5 million. The point of business, infrastructure and agriculture means that location does not come because we stop. Location means working every day to further develop and improve this country. In order to provide the right framework for companies to carry out their tasks, we have used several instruments. In addition to new financial instruments and the already mentioned discharge of entrepreneurs in the framework of the tax reform, we want to prepare the ground primarily for start-ups and innovations. The site must be attractive, which is driving ahead of digitisation and the necessary measures towards Industry 4.0, so that, as mentioned above, we will make 300 million € available for the expansion of broadband and will increase these funds to 1 billion € by 2020 in total. Our high quality of life, ladies and gentlemen – and you can hear this again and again when you have international visitors – also works so well that there is a well-organised and functioning agriculture as a special characteristic of Austria. The fact that unserious meadows are still managed to the tree borders throughout the country and that our food is of particularly high quality is no longer a matter of course. The benefits of our farmers must also be worth something to us. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Therefore, a budget volume of €2.1 billion is estimated for agriculture, forestry and water management next year. Austria must continue to collect all the funds for rural development from Brussels. There we will not and will not leave a penny for the farmers. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate High House! Let me also address, as already announced, those topics that are probably the most central topic of the past few weeks... [[Abg. Brunner: And the energy resort as well!]] One of the most central issues of recent weeks and months was how we deal with the issues of refugees and integration. Austria, my dear Ladies and gentlemen, there is a very, very long tradition of humanitarian aid. Let us remember the past, the years 1956: Hungary, 1968: Czechoslovakia, now the Czech Republic and Slovakia, and we remember the nineties when Yugoslavia broke up through the Balkan wars and we as a country and the people in that country gave great help. [[Abg. Kickl:... no comparison!]] Nor does ignorance lead to cycling, Mr. Kickl. [[Abg. Kickl: (referring to the written budget speech) The ignorance is black and white!]] The examples show the humanity that characterizes our country. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] One must also be aware of us, and of course this is also not to be overlooked in the so-called historical oblivion process: In all these events, including at the time, there was also much uncertainty, fears and rejection in addition to humanity. [[Abg. Kickl: This is human too!]] [[Call the SPÖ, but don't start!]] Therefore, we should note that this is not a one-dimensional process, but what has happened in the past is all the more so today: Let us take the concerns of the Austrians seriously! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Therefore, it is not only crucial how we deal with the current flow of refugees and how we forward the refugees, but above all how we integrate those who stay with us – a condition for positive asylum – into society. A regulated and fair handling of asylum is essential. With the introduction of the rapid procedures for migrants from safe countries of origin, we have taken an important step, and it turns out that Europe as a whole will be very harmonised with these rules. Especially with regard to the increasing number of applications, we must ensure that we deal with our procedures even faster in the future and that immigrants from safe countries of origin are quickly made clear that they have no chance of asylum. And we must act very consistently here in the implementation of the existing legal situation. The topic of integration will remain up-to-date. There are opportunities here, as well as enormous challenges. It will be imperative that we develop common rules on family integration in Europe, for example, in order to ensure the financialability of integration. No horror numbers, ladies and gentlemen, nor a small speech will help us. As Minister of Finance, I am responsible to the Austrians and I have to act on the basis of figures and facts – and cannot be guided by moods or speculations. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Therefore, in a first step, we have increased the funds for basic supply to € 420 million. The Federal Government has decided to provide 75 million in a special pot for integration, and 70 million will be generated together with the Minister of Social Affairs for the labour market and the labour market budget. We have committed ourselves to the Stability Pact at European level, and I am in favour of it. A evasion is therefore not in question. But it is essential to stress this point that solidarity between individual countries, like Austria, should not be penalised by the EU, and I therefore have to deal with, in time and as the first, with the European Commission, the accounting of the increased costs of refugees in the structural deficit for the coming year. Other countries have followed this example. The Commission is dealing with this. Current issues such as asylum and immigration sometimes dominate the political debate in excess. Responsible policy means reacting quickly and acting decisively here. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Although the refugee issue is currently omnipresent, we must not lose sight of other goals, especially our long-term goal of bringing Austria back to the top. This budget is the first step on the way out of the middle. It is a first step that many more must follow and will follow. We are working on this with concrete timetables, concrete negotiating teams and, above all, very concrete targets. We need, ladies and gentlemen, these reforms in order to create the budgets of the following years and to secure the budget in the long term, because the challenges on the expenditure side with regard to care, pensions and social benefits are becoming more – and no less. The engine of the Austrian distribution machine in recent decades has long begun to stutter. It's just not enough to just turn on a few screws. We have the choice between an expensive repair by adjusting the performance – or by waiting for it to cause engine damage. I'm for the first time. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ and NEOS.]] In our reform plan, my dear friends Ladies and gentlemen, we can make a point: That's the tax reform. But there will have to be further reforms and, in my view, it must continue. We need to secure the pension system in the long term. I have already mentioned that all international organisations, including the national research institutes, point out to the Court that the solution of this issue is crucial to the stability of the country. That's why the Federal Government took place until 29. In fact, next February next year we will present those measures that guarantee pensions in the long term, not for the next few years, but for the next few decades. The 2016 budget therefore provides for additional pension expenses of € 340 million. However, if you look at the average and long-term development, you expect an increase of 4.2 percent. The length of stay in the pension increases, while insurance periods tend to stagnate or even decline. It can't be calculated. That is why we are called for. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the NEOS.]] If our pension system were a car, we would have significant problems with the pickerl in a few years. It is therefore important to take further steps to secure pensions, especially for the next generation, despite all the efforts already made, which are already taking place, and the legal measures taken. We need to think about pension issues in long-term periods – and not just the next election. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ and NEOS.]] We need to do something, I am expressly talking about securing future pensions – and not about intervening in existing pensions. It is not a question of taking away someone, but it is a matter of ensuring future generations' pension. And if we take the recommendations of organisations such as OECD, IMF, European Commission, WIFO, IHS, Court of Auditors seriously, and we should do so, we know that this is one of the serious problems we have to solve. Let's do it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I have already mentioned it, which is particularly damaging to me, is the elimination of old loads. We have taken over the topic of Hypo, HETA to an extent that poses major problems in the long term, but also prevents future investment. I would just like to mention a number: In 2014, the Republic's Maastricht deficit as a whole was 2.7 percent, and without ITA it would be 1 percent. You should recognize the dimension that has been transferred to us for the future. That is why it is about solving the problem. We have addressed the subject with the necessary care, but also with the necessary caution. We have reached a delay in payment through the moratorium, thus allowing for an orderly settlement at all. We have already sold the former South-Eastern Europe networks and have developed a general comparison with the Free State of Bavaria, which we also want to complete and which is also available for treatment tomorrow. For the country of Carinthia, a buyback model is in preparation. This buy-in model ensures that we can get Carinthia out of liability and thus avoid damage to the financial market. The new Management Board of HETA is working with high pressure on the exploitation of the respective assets that are still present in the HETA. In 2016, ladies and gentlemen, we must set a particular focus on the long-term planning of the budget. It is about reorganizing the relationship between the federal, state and local authorities. The administrative reform will be an important element for further fiscal consolidation. And the gladly made accusation, there is nothing going on, is simply not true, because we are only at the beginning of the financial compensatory negotiations. At the end of 2016, this step will also be taken. To illustrate the dimension for you: These negotiations are about 95 billion per year. We know that the financial compensation in its present form is impenetrable and inefficient by many financial flows. There is an urgent need to clean up. It can't be that one ordered and the other pays. That's what we want and will change. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ and NEOS.]] It is about clear federal, state, local and local competences, but also about clear federal, state, municipal responsibilities. It is currently true in Austria that although everyone is responsible for something, no one is responsible for anything. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] An Example, Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen: I was reported to have been negotiating a uniform budgetary law for 41 years, which is a long time. This regulation has succeeded in being completed and signed by the President of the Court of Auditors and by me. This ensures that, on the basis of the recommendation of the budget service and after discussion in the Budget Committee, a regulation for a common budgetary law is actually adopted. [[Abg. Rossmann: That's not how we suggested it!]] – Mr Rossmann, since I assume you do not yet know it, I suggest you read it first and then we continue to discuss it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is a recommendation I like to express, and everything We can then discuss further. It is crucial that we have for the first time a framework condition that we do not, as everyone believed, also depend on an Article-15a agreement. The now announced Article 15a agreement between the countries concludes the countries with each other, but not with the Federation. That is a big step in the right direction, as this budget is a big step in the right direction. It will bring transparency and will also allow us to compare not only the budgets between Austria and Germany in the future, but also between Vienna and Lower Austria, for example. We want to address the issue of cold progression next year, ladies and gentlemen. I say very clearly that the approximation of tax rates to inflation is not a gift from the Minister of Finance to citizens, but it is exactly the other way round: This is a gift from citizens to the Minister for Finance, which is triggered by this cold progression. But in parallel, ladies and gentlemen, I call for a tax break in the Constitution for all local authorities and social security schemes, because one cannot be: by abolishing the cold progression, the Minister of Finance ensures that more money is in the stock exchange – and the others make a basket money. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We want to reduce labour costs and strengthen the economy. We want to take these decisions already in 2016, even if entry into force is possible at the earliest. But if we make such a decision, then it must be a volume, and this volume must be in the order of about €1.3 billion. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have a dialogue on education, which took place on 17 November. ==References====External links== I expect that it is not about cosmetic corrections in the system, but I expect it to be an educational reform that deserves its name. And if we provide additional resources for education, then, I think, we all agree that these funds must arrive where they belong: in the classroom and among the children. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We need a tangible simplification and a red tape reduction, yes, I'm going so far as to say: Stop the regulatory act! Austria is overregulated in many areas and takes the air for people to breathe and the businesses the opportunity to shape. According to the Court of Auditors, there are 558 preferential measures in Austrian income tax law in 2011. We took this report very seriously, carefully examined and acted. A number of these exceptions have already been removed in favour of the major tariff reform, which all benefit from. In this direction, ladies and gentlemen, we must continue to work and critically question any exception. This simplifies the tax system and achieves relief for all. However, we must also, and there you are all called upon to examine laws and regulations mandatoryly on their impact in practice and to consider whether the effort is at all beneficial in relation. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] We finally need to install the one-stop shops, i.e. deliver services at the touch of a button for citizens, as well as for entrepreneurs, abolish unnecessary agents, remove “gold plating”, i.e. avoid over-fulfilment of rules. And we need to adapt social security, in particular their health and rehabilitation facilities, to the new challenges. Removing bureaucratic obstacles is our duty. Instead of exorbitant punishment, it seems to me to be better if we switch from punishment to advice. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For many years, ladies and gentlemen, the Court of Auditors has been bringing us the presentations and reports here, which are all to be improved. I therefore propose that by the end of 2016, half of the Court's proposals have been implemented and half of the implementation of the other half has started. I believe that this too would greatly improve the credibility of politics and restore people's confidence. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] We therefore need more pressure and more speed, this is about all our credibility. And, ladies and gentlemen, we must deliver results – and not announcements. [[Congratulations on MEPs from ÖVP and SPÖ.]] This is the crucial point that we expect, and I assume that this Federal Government is aware that we will increase pressure and pace in the reforms. This is a programme that is crucial for the 2016 budget and for consolidation and implementation, including for the implementation of the budget. I'll invite you all to work on it. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] With tax relief, we have taken the lead: a common plan, a common time frame – and we have delivered. We also need to continue our strict budget implementation, which we demonstrated in 2014 and 2015, in order to achieve the objectives. We must highlight this consequence in order to achieve the objectives. Our reform plan must actually be started and set up so that the successful budget creation is possible in 2017, 2018 and 2019. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] We have to note that every day without reform is a lost day. We have started with the way of reforms and have also achieved significant achievements: the collective reform that relieves taxpayers and taxpayers. With the 2016 budget, for the third time in a row, we are planning a structural zero deficit, and through offensive measures we have set important impulses for growth and employment – despite difficult conditions. It is important to me to continue this path consistently; we simply cannot get out of this pustle. Every day we wait for implementation costs even more money, and that is the money of taxpayers for whom I draw responsibility as Minister of Finance. Every day on which the State and its tasks and achievements are not settled will become a lost day. With all that lies ahead of us: It is not about reform as a self-evident, but about framework conditions that allow as many people as possible to live in close to the prosperity that we as the present generation can enjoy. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I think my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen, in this context to young couples in Austria, who are just setting up their family. I am thinking of a single parent who is just about to finish her training in order to give her child or her children a better future. I am thinking of the many small entrepreneurs with two or three employees who pay their taxes on time each month, pay wages and work hard to advance this country. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] However, I am also thinking of the industrialists who work well in international competition and who stand out in international competition. I am thinking of farmers who are outside in any weather, resist the weather in order to provide us with high-quality products. I am thinking of young people who may not see the perspective for the future, but I am also thinking of pensioners who have a great responsibility for the prosperity of this country and who have made this prosperity possible for us at all. [[Abg. Brosz: I think of the sole employee!]] And I think of those who also get up alone as employees every day, give their best and want to put something aside to ensure something for the pension. – These are the challenges. We are committed to all of you as the Federal Government. I am responsible to all of you as Minister of Finance. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The safeguarding of the prosperity of the Austrians is a central task, this is a central asset. Therefore, it must be our common goal not to give in. We must do our best and strive up! [[Abg. Brosz: How the national football team!]] Leave You come to the football team from the East Regional League again: The Austrian football team is currently presenting it to us. [[Abg. Kickl: But Faymann isn't the coller!]] Here we see very well, as well as Austria goes up into the European top field and is playing, because every team player has the same goal in mind and because every team player plays on a goal. This is the only way to collect points for Austria. We also need this teamwork in politics. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Brosz: The Faymann is the Marcel Koller?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Kickl: The Swiss way!]] Much, ladies and gentlemen, has to and much will be... [[Abg. Kogler: The comparison is great!]] [[Further calls to the Greens.]] [[Vice chancellor Mitterlehner: Frank once tried it, didn't he?- Oh, my God!]] – If we could just briefly interrupt the debate of the 8.3 million football trainers, I would like to conclude, ladies and gentlemen! Much has to be done and much will be done in this country; anyway, I will use all my strength and fight for it. We must combine forces and tackle our problems together! Anyway, I'm not going to let go. I, ladies and gentlemen, will be there if we bring Austria back to the top. Take me by the word! [[Prolonged condolences with the ÖVP and the Abg. Arbitrators as well as applause at the SPÖ.]] [[11:05]] [[11:06:03]] 2. Point Report of the Scientific Committee on the Government Template (797/B._Other Organiser Federal Law, which amends the University Law 2002 and the Research Organisation Act, as well as the request 616/A of Deputies Mag. Nikolaus Scherak, colleagues concerning a federal law with which the University Law 2002 – UG, BGBl. I No. 120/2002, as amended (808 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e4911	We're now on the 2nd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr. Dr. Kassinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e4939	Mr President. High house! The current item on the agenda concerns the university law, i.e. a reform or a change to the university law. But I will also allow myself to deal with one sentence or another on what the Minister of Finance has just said. Let's stick to the university law. The 2002 UG is an undisputed milestone, with the implementation of autonomy, an advanced law. [[Abg. There is no one who listens to you.]] As said, it was enforced in 2002, then under the black and blue government, now there are some changes to this law. We have talked to many experts who basically say that this law does not bring much, is actually not necessary and we could have solved the whole thing about the collective contract or university autonomy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A point that is new now is the way to professorship. The standard procedure for a professorship is an international tender according to § 98. Now, by amending § 99, the way for an internal procedure, an internal occupation is opened, where universities are allowed to define the criteria within the framework of their autonomy. As I said, autonomy is basically a good thing. You'll have to look at how universities deal with this autonomy. The second point of this legislative amendment concerns the so-called study entry and orientation phase, the STEOP, which we in principle reject, because we consider it an inflexible instrument, which only delays the study and brings significant deterioration compared to the previous state. It is enough to make a conditionality chain in the course of the study. That is, if you want to attend a certain course, we assume, a chemical laboratory, then you can pass a certain test, in this case a chemical examination. Whoever it exists comes to the laboratory, and those who do not exist do not enter the laboratory – or static courses with in-depth mathematical examinations et cetera. So the whole thing that is produced from bureaucracy in the study entry phase, at STEOP, can be saved. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The next point that is being changed is the access arrangements. A clear position from our side: In principle, the liberals reject access restrictions. Why? – We do not think this is the right control instrument. The figures show that the access restrictions hit Austrian students disproportionately and refrain from studying. This is a development that we can't approve of. It is now 40 percent of the first allowed students non-Austrian. And that's where we're at the cost. The costs incurred amount to approximately €800 million to € 1 billion, and that for a total budget for the tertiary area of € 4 billion. This means 1 billion € for students of non-Austrian origin, and on the other hand, I'm going to go into it immediately, the money is missing at all corners and ends. That is to say, we call for an EU-wide commitment and for arrangements to be made for either mutual accounts or compensatory payments. We demand charges for non-EU citizens; there are very good possibilities. For example, when we look at the art universities, we see that there are mainly students from very wealthy countries studying – I now only call Japan as an example – for which it would not be a problem to pay corresponding tuition fees, also high tuition fees. There are also programmes in many countries to encourage students from the countries concerned to study abroad. They're highly educated, I'm calling Brazil and Paraguay. These students all go to America, where they pay 40 000 to 50 000 US dollars a year. No one goes to Austria because we are unable to create the appropriate framework conditions. It almost seems to me that we didn't need the money, yes, we didn't want the money. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What has been missing in higher education for years is generally a strategic university plan, where it is once clearly defined the role of universities, which is the role of technical colleges. There is no harmonisation of study courses. There are double-tracks, redundancies, all of which cost money. There is no plan for optimising infrastructure use. I think there's going to be a lot of money left. There is a lack of real student funding, and there is also a lack of money. If we look at the recommendations of the Research and Technology Development Council and at the same time see that in all the rankings that are relevant to it, in particular innovation dynamics, we fall back, then the whole thing is worrying, as the innovation dynamics, the bright minds in reality are the only asset that Austria has in international competition. We have no land resources, we have no sea access et cetera. If one assumes that innovation dynamics is the basis for competitiveness, and if one assumes that competitiveness is the basic prerequisite for creating even more jobs, then it must be noted that the negative development at the first point in this chain will ultimately lead to more unemployment. It's a completely clear causal chain. What are we doing? – We save the first member of this chain. We are very generous, the whole world can study with us, that costs nothing – but we lack the money at all corners and ends. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The €100 million that the Minister of Finance has also addressed will not help us, just to clarify the relations here. As a consultant, the Research and Technology Development Council strongly calls on the General University Fund to increase by approximately € 260 million per anno, to provide basic research with about €200 million per anno, to provide the applied research with about €200 million per anno, and also to neutralize the nonsense that universities carry out BIG rents of €240 million. That is, the Research and Technology Development Council says that we need about €900 million to slow down this trend of declining innovation dynamics and, subsequently, critical developments on the labour market. 900 million €! The Minister of Finance is very proud to announce that we will increase structural funds at the universities by €150 million. That is not enough, that is completely inadequate and not enough. We have a gap of € 750 million! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What do we spend the money for? – A very short sidestep to the structural deficit. That is also an important question. The Minister of Finance has said that we must build confidence in the population. I don't think we can build confidence in any art code, such as the structural deficit, where no one can understand what that is. That's a malignancy number. In fact, it is the real deficit minus all one-time expenditure – so to speak, the one-time expenditure is not there, we do not expect it at all –, minus economic development, so a negative economic development is calculated, and the latest Clou: minus all expenditure for the refugees. [[The speaker keeps his hands in front of the eye]] Eyes to, they don't exist. [[Keeping Your Hands in Focus]] If we subtract all of this, we have a super structural zero deficit. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The truth looks completely different. We have 77 billion € payouts and 72 billion € deposits. Basic folks schooling: 77 billion minus 72 billion results in €5 billion deficit. Minus! That's 7 percent of the deposit. The number of GDP comparisons is also misleading. We spend 7 percent more than we take: 5 billion euros that flow. The Minister of Finance has already said this: We have huge construction sites. At the UG 20 work, €500 million was now budgeted more than last year. At the UG pensions there are 340 million € more than in the last budget. The UG 23 official pensions: almost € 100 million more. We spend 20 billion € per anno for UG 22 and UG 23, i.e. pensions and civil servants' pensions, to support this system, which obviously does not work anymore. In addition, we have a complete black box – and I expect more from a political leadership than the statement: Well, we cannot now appreciate exactly how much expenditure we will have from this title! – in migration movements. We have heard now, 420 million € are already reserved for this. But there are quite different studies and studies, and if you're a bit realist: I'm afraid that'll go towards $1 billion. Just to clarify the dimensions: 1 billion euros! We support the universities with €150 million, we would need €800 million. – So: $1 billion! The second complete black box is the further development of ESM/Euro. We signed great for 20 billion € in 2012, now 2 billion €, so 86 billion € has been collected for Greece. That's where it's gonna be ruckzuck. There is the EU's decision-making competence, which is a matter of one week, and that is decided. €86 billion will be pushed over there. In the migration problem I hear only, we want to do, we do, we will sit together, they do not want to go along. - Nothing goes on at all. So that's a question of will or ability. I believe that it is rather a question of lack of will in the case of migration, because it is really useful to do things that really take into account the interests of Europe and the countries of Europe. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That means we have a plan now. The plan says we're going to pay €5 billion. But the plan is not safe. When we look at the so-called tax reform, we actually see a left-hand pocket-right bag game, a collective structural reform, which is mainly paid by the entrepreneurs who are already servants to the no longer going. We will take a very close look at these counter-financing measures. We'll meet again in a year, and then we'll have failed. I'm already making the allegation: It's not going to work! That is to say, this collective reform is also financed by the budget and by pump. We face a trend in unemployment, which is dramatic. For months, an unemployment summit has been promised, but nothing just happens. We just watch and don't do anything. So we, we'd do something, watch the government and don't do anything. [[the speaker points to himself]] What I would like to point out: We have a huge debt. We are now pretending that the interest rate risk would not be a risk. We are currently paying very low interest rates, but if interest rates only rise by 1 to 2 percent, then it makes puff. [[Abg. Kickl: Puff!]] Then we're talking about 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 billion euros of extra burden. We already pay 7 billion to 8 billion € only at interest rates. That's money, of course, going anywhere else. They're always talking about structural reforms. I do not see substantial structural reforms. With these – and there are twenty calculations and fifty opinions from various institutions, including us – billions of savings potential would, of course, be possible without reducing performance and output, simply by increasing efficiency. We don't see them. What are you bringing together? – You are moving at the level, you are making the same epoch laws as the Energy Efficiency Act, the Anti-Lohn Dumping Act, which are just the red tape samples you want to decompose. That is, there is an blatant misunderstanding between desire and reality. That's all in general anyway. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Final rate, because the lamp is already lit here: My impression from the government is – even after your statement – that she herself does not know where she wants to go. They're always talking about You want this and that, but you don't even know where you want to go! Of course, the ÖVP and the SPÖ have different approaches to different subjects. I think there are huge differences in nature, and nothing can come out of it. You also said the direction is important. That's right, the step in the right direction. But I can't see the direction here, there's no direction because you don't even know where the trip is going. It seems to me that you are a passenger on a steamer that has been driving in the wrong direction for years, and that is obvious, taking a north course, and the icebergs on the left and right of the steamer are always more visible. They delete the railing and say: Great, we've done something great again, we've turned the railing from black to red! And you keep your hands in mind and say, No reason to panic, I see clearly the structural zero deficit, everything will be fine, no worries!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e5076	Ladies and gentlemen, I note that at least part of your speech has been about the item on the agenda; that is all right. Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Däderle. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e5100	Mr President. High house! It was already somewhat significant: When this item was announced, the hall was suddenly empty. The interest in science and research is therefore also an end to this House, I find it very regrettable. I also note that, although my previous speaker did not speak on the subject for a long time, and where he spoke on the subject, I have to file a few objections. Above all, § 99, which regulates a form of professor's appointment, does not regulate internal vocation, but is only a shortened form of the appeal procedure and can affect, as well as § 98, quite international vocations, i.e. vocations from outside. I am therefore on the topic and the most important point of this novel, namely the so-called Tenure Track, as it is called internationally – in German: a new regulation for young scientists who in future have the opportunity to gain a perspective at their own university. The whole has a long and culturally different history. In Austria as in Germany, it has long been considered ungood and unfavorable for universities to call people out of their own home, while other countries, above all our model in these things, the USA, but also France and many other, skilled young people, also allowed themselves to continue within their own university and opened up career opportunities to them. This has already changed the collective agreement with us a little, but now we are following law and doing something that is time and for which we are given applause: We allow young skilled people to get a perspective and a temporary job at their own university if they do the same. They must, as I have said, do this, and they must do it at the beginning, and that is the very decisive thing and the new thing to prevail in an international call for proposals. And with this we ensure that the good people can stay with us. Often they'll go anyway. Internationality and mobility have always been the essence of academic operations. That's also to blame for having so many students from abroad. That is exactly what should be the case, Austria should be attractive to foreign students and it is also. And, of course, young people, even if they can stay with us, go abroad very often; sometimes they also return. But they can also remain in the future, and that is a very essential achievement of this novel. It is also important to standardise the study entry and orientation phase, which has so far been handled very differently, but which is generally very good, because it does just what it needs to do by name, namely to provide guidance and help at the beginning of the study. We have extended the access arrangements for highly sought-after subjects, but unfortunately it was not possible to extend the subject group, which would have been important, because only by doing so would there be a certain quality of study in these subjects. It can be done. There has to be an objective to extend to all those subjects where demand is far greater than the universities' capacities. The demand: Just take more money in your hand to increase the capacity here!, it does not grasp and is not right. It is not only possible to respond to this strong demand with more financial resources, but also to respond to it with access rules. Then quality increases for both students and teachers. With the novelle, we have also put two institutes, which are very important and enjoy high international reputation, in a different context. We have given the Institute for Austrian History Research to the University of Vienna, the Austrian Archaeological Institute, which, in particular, is digging in Ephesus, but also has very important outposts, is now part of the Academy of Sciences. Both institutions agree. Both are guaranteed their identity and visibility. This novelle of the UG and in the field of the Research Organisation Act brings a wealth of good innovations. The novelle has also been closely coordinated with all those concerned, there has been an extensive review process, and we have then worked out a lot more. We have also tried to bring in suggestions from the opposition parties, and this has partly succeeded. I think that's a good novel, and I'm glad to be approved here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e5164	Mrs Maurer's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e5186	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, This novelle has actually become “necessary” – under quotation marks – because this government is still not ready to provide the universities with sufficient resources to enable all students to study their wishes. The restrictions on access, which were equipped with a self-destruction section, were dissolved in March, and they now had to be extended from the government's point of view. I do not share the assessment of my colleague's daughter in any way that this would not be the case with more funding. The boundaries we have introduced in these fields are entirely arbitrary, and they have the effect of deterring many students from taking their desired studies. We also know that access restrictions result in a very strong social selection. We see this clearly when studying medicine, where the proportion of students from high levels has increased dramatically since the introduction of access restrictions and we also have the problem that, above all, only people from the city are still studying medicine, the people of the country are no longer. And then again in this House we discuss that we have the problem that there are so few doctors who want to organize in the country. So I already see a certain connection, and I can't feel any joy with it, Students are excluded from a study. That is why this amendment will not be approved by the Green Group either. I would also like to point out that the academic rate and the number of students, the number of students in Austria in international comparison, are still extremely low. But this does not change the opinion of this government to exclude students. That was the original motivation for today's novels. But there are also a few other things that are included in it, including a point that is based on the fact that I started to ask what the university councils are doing in spring. I have made a request to find out how much they really pay off. And this request has shown that these are partly extremely high amounts. The university councils, set up at the university, which hold four to five meetings a year, partially charge up to €36 000 for a Presidency – for four or five sessions a year! This is clearly too high, and I think it is good that it has now been responded to and that a ceiling is provided for these compensations in the UG-Novelle. However, the law contains the authorization for the Minister to set a limit by regulation. We will look very closely, Minister, at the fact that this border is not too high. Another question I've been dealing with lately is: The university councils have sometimes extremely high remunerations, but how does it look for the rectorates? In this context too, I have tried to get through a request for information. And I must say that the rectors of the Austrian universities, which are still public institutions after all, were not exactly happy. Only very few have disclosed their salaries, most have hidden behind the data protection. The answer to this question has shown that these salaries are partly extremely high, far above what the Minister receives. And I think that is absolutely inappropriate. Since the discharge into autonomy, the rectorates have greatly increased their costs. A salary above that of a minister who is responsible for all 21 universities and for much more, much more, to spend on the management of a single university, I think absolutely inappropriate. For this reason, I am also in favour of setting a ceiling on the rectors, because the reactions and the discussion of this subject have not strengthened me in that there is a consciousness within the rectorate in the direction that this might be something overpassed. And I think it's quite absurd when it comes to argumenting that you'd pay your expenses yourself, which is why it would be necessary to obtain such a high salary. These are arguments I cannot understand. Unfortunately, I must say that the attitude of universities to deal with information so sparingly and not to disclose what is being spent on the rectors is not exactly a source of confidence. And because of the lack of transparency among the rectorate salaries and also the lack of the ceiling, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I think that transparency is a very important point if we have autonomous universities that are financed by tax money. And the way in which the discussion has gone is not particularly trusting. I believe that we need greater control in this area and also a greater awareness at universities that they are very autonomous, but they are obliged to inform the public and taxpayers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e5305	The amendment tabled by Mrs Maurer is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e5378	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e5400	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing today an UG-Novelle, in which the question of how we might re-regulate access to universities has also been raised in preparation. And I am pleased that we are today able to decide on a proposal which will not bring new obstacles to the existing recording procedures. to improve the conditions of study and to improve for students at STEOP, the entry and orientation phase. The existing access schemes will continue to be monitored, they will be evaluated in the impact and are, in turn, only limited in time laid down in the law. It has also been new to the law that the admission procedures that exist may not bring “no discrimination on the grounds of sex and social origin”. This is a sentence which may sound natural, but which is already a very important framework for such recording procedures. New to the law is also the fact that universities will in future publish the test substance for such admission procedures free of charge on their homepage. It is also new – this suggestion was made by students to us, and an opposition request in this direction was also discussed in the Committee – that there will be an examination of the examination documents in the course of reception procedures in order to have a corresponding feedback and to be able to draw appropriate conclusions for a repeat of the examination for the preparation. As far as the study entry and orientation phase is concerned, which in our view is a very useful measure, because it is precisely an alternative to the fateful examination, which is the admission procedure before the study, there will be an additional examination procedure in the future. This means taking out a little stress and pressure for the students in this phase. In the future, we will define a framework for the requirements of the study entry and orientation phase in the law, because the evaluation has found that this has evolved too much. However, the framework is set in such a way that it continues to leave flexibility open to universities and individual studies. And it will also be possible to have more preference for courses than before in the course of the study entry and orientation phase. A further focus in addition to access was the working conditions and career and career opportunities at the universities. A number of regulations will be set up to improve career and career opportunities for young scientists, for extraordinary university professors, for associate professors and professors. A framework will be set up for the remuneration of university councils. Many university councils themselves have approached us and have said that they do not want to decide for themselves, not even to determine the remuneration they owe them. They want the Ministry to set a corresponding framework for this, and it will be available in the future. So many innovations in this university law, which will improve the conditions at universities, both for students and teachers at universities.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e5458	Mr Karlsböck has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e5481	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! The education of young people is the largest capital for the development and future of a country. We hear this again and again, have heard it today and hear it especially in the election campaign and in Sunday speeches. The reality shows, however, that the interest in this issue – and this is what we now see here in the House; one of my previous speakers has already said – is not that big. It is, I admit, a complex subject, a difficult subject, but it is an essential issue that we have to deal with here. It is an existential and structural dissatisfaction to establish in the academic, university scene in Austria. We see the subjective – I will come to talk about it later – and we see it objectively, above all, on the string criteria, the rankings. If they're bad, it's always said that it doesn't matter if they're good, we'll cheer them up. In the discussion of higher education policy, science policy is a certain reduction in discussion culture. That means that in Austria, as we have now heard, there is actually a lot of money for it. Today we have heard in the budget speech, €4.28 billion are budgeted for it, we have heard that the research rate is rising above 3 percent, and yet everyone is dissatisfied because we are resisting side-by-side. I would just like to address what the Minister of Finance has also said: Many players in the system – including in this subsystem – are not part of the solution, but are part of the problem. Let's give you a few examples. For example, as a public law body, the Austrian university studentship is now heavily financed, but students are actually not really interested in looking at how the election rate was in the last ÖH elections. One resists more or less in latepubertary discussions. But we also have other basis for discussion: At the Gender discussion we resist enormously, we resist at various clubs. In the election campaign, for example, we made up an association – in this respect we also submitted a request – called AUTNES and, in its statutes, has the promotion of basic scientific activity. Then we saw that he sent a call for election to all the households in Vienna. – That’s good and loyal, but I don’t think it’s up to the association to organise such things with public research funding funds. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have made a request to do so and will, of course, go to the bottom of these things. We could also see that a university rector, who is even the head of UNIKO, is not too stupid to engage in the election campaign, an opposition party whose members from the Scientific Committee have raised legitimate questions on individual subjects, to be regarded as self-evident and thus more or less to prohibit the legitimate right of request that we have in the House autonomous, independent Members. That's a scandal! We have also asked questions. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Then I would like to speak to the March that everything is somehow God-given and difficult to solve in our field of science policy. – There is the excuse of autonomy here. If it wasn't autonomy in the way it is, everything would be much better. In this autonomy one chooses from the The area of universities out of the filet pieces, and when it becomes difficult, one calls to the state. As an excuse we have the complicated structures at the university, we have as an excuse the EU, we have as excuse that there is too little money, we have as excuse the lack of experience of managing many universities. – It must be borne in mind that in Austria we are always averse to other systems. For example, we say that the US has a very unsocial system of study funding and study support. But we must say that in America, strangely, social permeability is much, much higher than in Austria. That is why we have to ask why these things happen: because they have a higher funding rate, they have a higher scholarship culture, which we do not have in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen, we have the solutions! We say that we want funded places to study, we want compensation payments from the EU. We've heard it today: We can demand back €600 million from the EU. We can do this as well as the Germans with the motorway toll – we have the opportunity to do so. An Austrian university plan – which has to be there – is missing, a personnel development plan is missing, and above all, I would like to say that we have to say goodbye to the dogma of the fixed-term contracts. Internationally, it is common practice that in the so-called academic medium-sized building a certain percentage must be kept under contract indefinitely. This academic medium-sized building secures teaching and, above all, ensures research. In Austria, the area of fixed employment is very underdeveloped. This means that the academic youth in this country will be employed for a maximum of six years. That means: He can take the hat again when he is just working in the teaching. The scientific youth, if it is so far as he can manage research funds, can already say goodbye to the university again. That is to say, in German, in the academic medium-sized building, we have too little of the inner Austrian careers we always speak of, which will make us very sorry in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, in the next few months, an extremely serious and profound discussion will have to take place on the Austrian scientific site. This has to go in the direction that we find solutions to get out of the middle class in higher education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e5567	The next item is the speech by Mr Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e5588	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr Karlsböck, the association AUTNES, is a research group financed, among other things, by the FWF. Now I don't know exactly how long you've been sitting in the high house, but you get a questionnaire every time you choose. This is an association that deals with democracy research, and that has also been the essential point in the issue. So, I think you need to be careful about what you're talking about here. And also to call the ÖH “laterpubertary”. – I also have my critical points at the ÖH again and again, but nevertheless! You can contact my colleague. Mr Schrangl from your group once asked, he was also an ÖH-functionary, and he also came in there. So if it were so bad, I'd advise you and the RFS not to join again. I also have my criticisms, but nevertheless, to set the standard level so, that is really not all right. To the UG-Novelle: So that the UG-Novelle is a real step, that is clear, the question is only – Mr Vice-Chancellor, you know that this is coming from me again and again – whether it is a sufficiently big step, whether we are going as far as it would be necessary here. There are some points that are important when it comes to opening up career opportunities for young researchers. That's a real step, but we're really going to be on half way here. We manage to open the professor's Curia, however, we focus on the Now, the whole reform is starting from the status quo and looking at the staff structure we currently have. That means we'll stay on half way. This is a tenure track model “light”. It's good that we did something, not even a question, but it'll stop half way. As far as restrictions on access are concerned, as you know, I am quite different from Mr Maurer. I think it would have been useful to think in principle about how to regulate access to Austrian universities in general. I do not think these individual measures are useful. In turn, it is a thing that refers to the status quo, and this is just going on through the entire UG-Novelle. As far as STEOP is concerned, I think it is very useful what we have done, because we have here in particular included the evaluation of the ITS and have seen clearly where the problems in the STEOP are – whether it be the limitation of the testing possibilities which are now being removed, which I think is very important, whether it is the maximum and the minimum extent within STEOP. These are all important things, and especially the fact that there is just a change in the examination possibilities is in the interest of the students. On the chain contract scheme: This is an extremely difficult issue in itself, because, of course – and we have to be clear about that too – it cannot be that these deadlines are permanent and normal universities. Nevertheless, they are now reality. The chain contract regulation, which is now being changed, has so far been such that we have actually taken the career opportunities of young researchers. Now we are taking a right step, so in particular, that student cooperation is no longer counted that, if there is a difference in the job, there is a relaxation here, and I think it is very useful. There is an insight into the examination documents of the reception tests. – I am particularly pleased, because this was due to a request from me. It is a pity that it took some time for the first time and, in particular, that it also needed a court ruling. Nevertheless, this is also important for young people, especially those who apply for a university. That means something positive is coming here. Just a little basic to the end. This is now my final provisional speech here – at least in connection with the field of science. We have a change in the club, as you know, and the functions will also be redistributed. That is why I would like to thank you, Mr Vice-Chancellor, also the Secretary of State, who is now, unfortunately, no longer here, and also all of your colleagues in the Scientific Committee, because I believe that the Scientific Committee in this Parliament is really a positive example of how to achieve this. Working together constructively – despite the fact that there are really massive ideological differences. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Schellhorn and representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] We have only seen this right in the debate on the evaluation of the IHS, but it is nevertheless a positive example in this context – we have to say that over and over again. The second point, which I would like to mention now, is precisely these ideological pitfalls. They are there, and I think they are the main problem that we do not take major steps in higher education. We need these big steps! We needed basic structural reforms, we needed a basic plan – a compromise or a large compromise there – where we want to go with the universities, where we want to go with the educational universities. This does not work in this Federal Government. There are very massively different ideas. In this respect, on the one hand, this is my accusation that it does not work, on the other hand, it is my appeal. I wish you all the best that we can do more in this area! I believe that Austria urgently needs this, because, especially in the field of science and research, this is really the investment in the future – we have already heard this from the Minister of Finance. But I think we need basic structural reforms so that we can finally go a little further.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e5663	Mr. Dr. Mitterlehner spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e5685	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I should now like to join with Mr Scherak in relation to the comment – which, I believe, was meant to be a compliment to the Committee – that there have been constructive discussions in the Science Committee and there are constructive discussions. I see it the same way. He then pointed out, however, that there are grave struggles because of ideological diversity. – This may be the case in part, but I believe that the conclusion from it is not a certain immutability or disunity as far as the government is concerned, but it is precisely this law. I think that the current novel of the University Law is a relatively successful balancing act between the one ideological focus – that is the autonomy of universities in which no one is allowed to interfere; it also represents various rectors who say that is a framework law, and want as few other controls as possible; one or another interprets this in such a way that one even hides behind it – and on the other hand, the state does not have any means to finance the desired study for all, but it needs a certain control option in the direction of quality and relation of supervisors and maintainers. This is precisely what we are doing, among other things, with this novel of the University Law, because three priorities are regulated: on the one hand, the access arrangements we have already had in § 14h and, of course, in other areas, the new career opportunities for young scientists, also mentioned above, and finally, thirdly, there is a system development in the entire area of the university organization system. It's a by now from the scale already very grown system, which also needs certain management criteria and other guiding conditions and framework conditions. As far as the first point is concerned, study law and the continuation of access rules, I would like to begin by thanking not only the coalition partner, but all those involved in the Community. And, Mr Karlsböck, Mr Scherak has already pointed out: One can have an opinion about the high schooling that may be used as always, but a flat-rate presentation as more or less latepubertary fun society I consider to myself not appropriate to the instrument or the introduction of high schooling that I felt was committed and ambitious. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ, Greens and NEOS.]] We have also made an attempt to extend the right to vote to all university areas, including private universities and universities, as well as to vote in this House – or you have decided to do so; we have presented it and worked out it together with the university. That's a success. That was the reason – because it was the first time there – that the voter participation has declined. In the university area alone it has risen! So: A differentiated argument was always a quality of the committee, and I would ask that we do so in plenary. On the matter itself one must also say that there have been various fears of access to universities. I'm telling you, we're the first to need a control instrument. We are currently working on the development plan. I do not have unlimited resources, but I have to control it in some way in Austria as a whole. We do this with the higher education development plan, and the same thing is already done at the technical universities. Since we do not have any study contributions – you know the eternal discussion in this House – there is the only way to control the access system in different forms. What we are talking about here and today is actually only the continuation in the area of so-called §-14h subjects, i.e. architecture, pharmacy, computer science, economy and biology. – As far as medicine is concerned and what you have obviously used as an argument, namely that fewer Austrians now have their place of study, that is another story and is actually not on the agenda today or should not be the subject of the discussion. In the case of the others, the fear that the scheme would lead to access to the fact that many would be tested that we had total restrictions there and that, among other things, the gender composition, the social balance and others would not exist. – Now we had this in practice, the IHS analyzed it, and the consequence of the whole matter was that we had a discharge in the mass compartments, as well as we wanted, but no one had to be checked out. Only the fact that a better information has been observed has led to a more targeted selection of studies in all these subjects – an advantage! But this has not reduced the number of students, but has even developed upward. So there was a discharge in the mass compartments, a more conscious choice of subject. But what else did it bring? – The students remain in the chosen subject, i.e. in the final effect: more continuity in terms of choice of study and commitment. For example, we have seen this in the pharmacy: On average, 74 percent of students continued their studies in the third semester; before that, they were 10 percentage points less. The same applies to other studies. As you have addressed the medicine: I'm exactly familiar with these tests, which are available before, to really determine the suitability, because the drop-out rate, since the test was introduced, has fallen from 50 percent to 5 to 10 percent since 2006. In the final effect, this is also a successful measure which leads to p.t. Tax payers with their resources also see the appropriate efficiency ensured. That is why we will be very committed to continuing this. I have already mentioned the number of students in total. In this context, the IHS study is partly discussed differently. Who felt the time as too long: We are now continuing until 2021. I believe that we then have well-founded, empirically safe analyses, which has actually resulted in social situation and other points such as the gender composition of students and many other questions in practice. Secondly, the so-called entry and orientation phase is further developed. IHS and others have criticised that this would be too uneven in terms of the sizes of the substance, preferences and others. We have re-regulated this with this law and brought in more overview. This brings clear benefits to students. In addition, we have also introduced decisive changes in human resources law – which has already been suggested – especially for the young people, namely new career prospects for young people and higher permeability for extraordinary and associated professors along the way to the professor's Curia through a simplified vocational procedure. The selection, you know, will then be precisely regulated by the rector with the involvement of all the competent authorities. In five years there will be an evaluation so that one does not make hopes that may not occur – so that is also objective. At least the attempt – and in parts it has also succeeded – to achieve a kind of tenure track model according to American model. We therefore follow numerous recommendations made by the Science Council, but also the WIFO and others. The third component is the organisational right component. As regards the inconsistencies of the University Council, we have made some clarifications – a cooling-off phase and more – and, among other things, we have also dealt with the remuneration issue as regards university councils. This is the part that systematically belongs more towards the Ministry, so to speak, in the direction of the administration. There will be a corresponding regulation. The question that has been raised was whether this should not apply to the rectors. There is a motion for a resolution in this respect, and we have also been dealing with this issue. I think it would be too populist to go over it quickly and decide on this. There is a corresponding responsibility of the University Council, there is also a certain development and transparency, and transparency will ensure that we deal with this issue very appropriately and carefully. I do not want to intervene in autonomy, and this is really true of the universities, which ultimately also with their liability itself. responsible, left in their area. – I believe that the most important thing has already been said. I think it is simply a further regulation which, especially as regards the financial possibilities, brings a certain control in the university area, improves the quality of teaching, brings the relationship between the caregivers and the caregivers into closer lanes and, above all, opens up new career models for young people. For reasons of time, I am not referring to the improved chain treaty regime and to the temporary contracts, Mr Karlsböck, which we have already discussed intensively in the Committee. There have also been improvements there, so that we have qualitative progress in the entire university area. I would like to thank all those involved once again. I ask for broad consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e5791	Now comes Mrs Mag. Honey to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e5812	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to take this opportunity today to address a subject that I am constantly trying to draw your attention to, including the competent ministers, the social partners. And I am talking about showing the problem that we have too unclear legal regulations in relation to compulsory internships and especially in the university field. These unclear regulations lead to confusion, difficulties, negative experiences with these internships, which would not be necessary. It is urgent that we finally have a clear relationship here. Please, go on with this project! [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this needs a geared solution from a labour law definition and a study approach. Not just the one or the other brings us something. I had the opportunity, in connection with a motion for a resolution on this, to also hold a debate with the Minister, which has signaled something like a certain awareness of the problem and has also announced that solutions are being worked on. But when I look at what's going on here with this UG, I say, that's not a good direction. § 35a deals with the practical clinical year, which is something like a compulsory internship for medical students. This takes place for 48 weeks, at least 35 hours a week, including night services. In the law we find that this includes an active participation in the care of patients, but no service or employment relationship is justified that the support provided to students – we are talking about around €600 here – does not mean that this is a service relationship, but this support does not take place without employment, without social insurance. This is defined here. So it's not a service or employment relationship. Contraindication is also contained in the Explanatory Notes to the CCC Nomenclature: It's supposed to be a training relationship. What is a training relationship? – This is one where the trainee has great freedom with regard to the timing of his presence on the spot and is not directly integrated into the operational work process. This is not the case here! That means what is happening here is not to create clarity again, but to continue the confusion. In their opinions, both the representatives of the students concerned, i.e. ÖH, and the Chamber of Labour, criticize this: The confusion will continue. It is only made clear in one point, namely that the hospitals are saving money by not having to hire people. Ladies and gentlemen, we need clarification, we need the definition between work and training. Unfortunately, what is available here is not yet a big step, but I am good things – Mr Katzian is unfortunately not here now – that the discussions we have with the GPA in this regard will be successful, which go strongly towards analogous regulation to the Vocational Training Act for Teaching, i.e. between training and work. I believe that this is a good approach, and I hope that we will really continue here soon. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e5864	Next word: Mrs Dr. Karl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e5885	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! I assume that we all want to provide the best possible support to the Austrian universities in the field of profile education and the qualified further development of research and teaching. If we want to, we have to offer the best conditions for universities. With the present amendment of the University Law 2002 and the Research Organisation Act, this is exactly what is happening, but essential features and framework conditions of Austrian higher education and research areas are further developed and re-regulated. In the following, I will take a closer look at the new legal and legal framework. The further development of the personal environment based on the quality and qualification of individuals is aimed at expanding the career opportunities for young scientists. This concerns both university lecturers and associate professors. This also creates, above all, those organizational conditions which form the basis for more continuous career prospects. It has always been the subject, also in the Science Committee, that we want more continuous career prospects at our universities. This also strengthens Austria's attractiveness and international competitiveness. As a very positive point, I would also like to highlight the relief already mentioned on several occasions in the chain contract regulation. However, we want to ensure good conditions not only for the staff at the universities, but of course also for the students. For example, the temporary continuation of the existing access arrangements serves as a modified one. I welcome this, but I do not want to hide that I would also like to extend the access arrangements to other overflowing fields, such as the legal sciences. Some of the existing access schemes have been evaluated and the final reports completed in the first half of 2015 have shown that since the Implemen A significant increase in the degree course during the regular study period in a parallel decrease in the average duration of study was observed by about two semesters. This positive development must, of course, continue. At the same time, the corresponding changes will be made where a need for reform arises from the evaluation. This applies, for example, to the harmonisation of the admission schemes or to the design of the study entry and orientation phase. Overall, the current UG reform represents an essential contribution to the quality, performance-oriented and sustainable development of the Austrian higher education sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e5933	Next word: Mr Kucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e5955	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! With today's novelle of the University Law, we decide to make a number of positive changes for our students, for our young scientists, for young researchers. This is all the more remarkable – Mr Scherak has mentioned it – than there are different approaches to science policy. As social democrats, we are deeply convinced that free and open access to higher education is important. He was important, he's important and remains important. We insist that young people's prospects for the future should depend on their talents, not on their parents' origin or wallet. That's what we're talking about. Any form of access restrictions, admission examinations, which often cost very, very much, of study fees, leads to difficult obstacles, especially for children, for young people, for young people who come from a financially weaker home. This is what we stand for, and therefore it is also important to fight for free access to higher education. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, we have succeeded in finding a solution together – you can also say this positively about the work of the Scientific Committee. The existing access schemes will not be extended, they will continue to be monitored critically, they will be evaluated, they are also temporary, and the number of places available has also remained unchanged. We have redefined – I think this is a very important point – that admission procedures at universities must not lead to any discrimination due to gender or social origin. I think this is also a very important pass that we have incorporated into the law. We have introduced that the test substance must be published in advance on the homepage, it must also be accessible free of charge. There must be no need for expensive preparation courses to exist for these reception tests. We have united the study entry and orientation phase throughout Austria, giving it a common framework between eight and twenty ECTS points. This entrance phase should be designed in such a way that it really offers orientation about the study, but there is no way to interpret hidden selection methods in it. A positive example of what the ÖH has contributed in this process was the suggestion that you can prefer up to 22 ECTS. This is especially for students, the aid or the aid which works by the way, has been a very important requirement of the ÖH, which has been included in the review procedure. The STEOP test provisions have also been adapted to the normal test provisions, so to speak. There are now more examinations. This relieves students who are in a stress situation in these reception exams. A very essential point is that we now approach the long-standing demand for new career opportunities for young scientists step by step. This will continue to be the subject of the performance agreements. I believe that this was a very, very important step in terms of life planning and career opportunities for young researchers. Many further steps must follow. But I believe that we have achieved a very important step together today, and thank you very much for all those who have taken part in it.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e6016	Next speaker: Mrs Gamon. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e6037	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Dear citizens! High house! We all know that the boys in Austrian politics are not only under-represented, but – and that hurts me personally – they simply have no priority for this federal government. I would like to work in this Parliament in the future to see this change, and also to be a fighter for generation-righteousness, so that all young people can really exploit their talents and become those people they want to be. [[Congratulation with the NEOS]] Our universities are exemplary in how in Austria talents and resources are often unused and broken down; just as our Federal Government refuses to make a big throw of reforms. I have to say that the ideological grave is certainly also a problem, because if you try to find a middle path between a desired union on the one hand and access restrictions on the other, this is just as meaningful a concept as Austrian federalism – and we know that it does not work too well. But in this novice of the UG we have to say that a few things have changed positively, but there are still small steps, and I think they are just too small for this important area, and it goes too slowly. For example: That the temporary restrictions on access have now been extended due to the positive evaluation, this is a cosmetic emergency aid, as the political will for serious reorganisation is unfortunately still lacking towards capacity-oriented funding. We must face up to this question of how many places Unis really have available. But I also find it equally positive that we are approaching Tenure Track, since it is important to build a transparent career leader for young researchers. However, it is still not the reform that we need in order to really facilitate the way from the middle to the professorship. And this is not an insignificant point; young researchers we should not put stones in the way, but rather build new ways for them. We These young people need them, we need them in Austria. We cannot afford to move abroad or take another career because they consider it impossible here. Some Unis also persist in an old hierarchical personal image, which represents this great gap between students and professors. This is partly unbridgeable for young doctoral candidates and postdocs. We're losing talents on the band, as well as international reputation. Even if we all agree that these rankings are to be enjoyed with caution, we must already say that in almost everyone we are relatively bad. I believe that at the same time we must release the universities into freedom and autonomy, but also take them into account. This requires real capacity-oriented funding for the university law, which is geared to the costs. In this way we can create the structural and financial basis to make the higher education sector really fit for the future and to develop it further. Just as in higher education, there are many other areas in Austrian politics, where there is a lack of generation-righteousness. The pension area is relatively quick to catch up with one of these huge debt mountains, which we give young people along the way, and, above all, of course, school education, because if the state determines how the life of a ten-year-old child is going to go, then that is not equal to the odds of the future. It cannot be that we are always living in Austria at the expense of the next generation, and I would like to start right here. This will be my main concern in this Parliament in the next few years, because I want us young people to be loud in Austria and that we fight for this country to become generation-friendly. And I'm going to fight for being heard, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e6095	Next speaker: Mr Mag. It's a kilnauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e6116	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear Seers! Modern framework conditions for improving quality at universities, that is the premise under which today's amendment of the University Law 2002 stands. The present legislative text includes the implementation of key areas of the government programme, current recommendations of the Court of Auditors and the Science Council. It also took into account the content of the suggestions of the parties represented in the National Council and some criticisms arising during the review process. On the one hand, the content of the development plan of universities is now defined more precisely. It contains objectives in the field of teaching, personnel, infrastructure and is also the basis for service agreements with the Federal Ministry, those agreements that allow universities to receive money from the ministry. Planning security is also the reason for the next central point of the reform, namely the continuation of existing access schemes by 2021. In my view, such a system of access is also quite necessary in order to better distribute student flows to the existing courses of study and to create an open but no access to any degree. Students benefit from this scheme very clearly through a better care relationship. On the other hand, such a scheme also offers universities better planning for the use of their resources. The tasks of the University Council are defined in more detail, which has already been addressed, and the relations of the members of the Council are limited. But also the point of making universities more transparent is taken into account. In this context, it is appropriate to welcome the new regulation of access to the assessment documents and evaluation protocols of admission procedures for students. This means that they can not only take a picture of their performance, but also better prepare themselves for future admission procedures. The most important point for the students is the improvement of the entrance and orientation phase, the STEOP. Here the recommendations of the Science Council, the Court of Auditors and the Institute for Higher Studies have been implemented, which in practice make significant improvements to students and universities. In doing so, I am particularly interested in strengthening the content of the initial and orientation phase as an orientation phase, as an accompaniment to the study. As different people are, so different are their gifts. The task of our education system, I think, must be to further promote these talents. In this sense, the study entry and orientation phase should also help to determine whether the selected study actually corresponds to the own talents. However, it is not supposed to be a Knock-out phase or an unnecessary delay, so it is now also possible to complete certain courses already during STEOP. I am convinced that there is a good overall package here that brings our universities forward to the top league as required.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e6171	Next speaker: Mr Buchmayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e6193	Mr President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to take a brief look at the study entry and orientation phase. I also believe that this has ultimately achieved a good steering effect – which shows the first figures – but one aspect should already consider: For many young people who come from socially disadvantaged groups, the start of a study means that it is absolutely necessary to take up a secondary job in order to finance the study. Moreover, it is very often beneficial for future careers to already have professional experience. Depending on the direction of study, it is very different how much time is spent doing the study, and how much time it can take to go to work by the way. There is a list for Germany – and it should be similar with us in Austria: For political science, for example, it is 26 hours a week, for veterinary medicine up to 45 hours a week. They see that – especially in the so-called MINT subjects, the fields of chemistry or physics: 37 hours a week, or legal sciences: 33 hours a week – very different time is needed to successfully conduct the study, At the same time to have a job and to complete the study also in the regular time. That's why I think the whole novelle – assessed in principle – brings a lot of reliefs and improvements. However, we must be careful not to forget young people with bites whose social environment makes study difficult. I would like to point out that a student survey is planned for next year. The last known survey – from 2000 to 2011, I think 2011 – showed that the share of socially disadvantaged students had decreased from 26 to 19 percent. It would be hoped that this situation will improve in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e6235	Ladies and gentlemen! Deputy Pilz! Mr Pendl! We have discussed in the last presidential term that in this room we want to keep the area in front of the speaker's desk as free as possible to the first bank series in order to give the speakers the appropriate attention. [[Mr Pendl and Mr Pilz went back to their seats before the first series of the SPÖ Group.]] – Thank you for fulfilling this so quickly. Next speaker: Mr Ertlschweiger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e6265	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we have already heard a lot about the novel of the university law – I don't want to repeat everything – and it has been very much the right thing to do. For me, it is a major building block for the system-related development of the science area and finally creates modern legal frameworks. What things are central to this? - On the one hand: The highly qualified scientific staff receive even more perspectives and possibilities for development. On the other hand: The quality of study will be improved. One important point for me is that the existing access arrangements for the five particularly highly requested studies will be extended to include architecture, biology, computer science, pharmaceuticals and the economy as well as the medical studies human, dental, veterinary and psychology and communication sciences until 2021. That's essential to me. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The continuation of these access schemes not only improves the care situation in mass subjects, but also creates long-term planning security for students and universities. That's what we've heard today. The student flows are better distributed to the available subjects. Open but not arbitrary access is still maintained. The fact that this path, ladies and gentlemen, is the right one shows us not only a lower drop-out rate – Mr Vice-Chanceller explained this earlier – but also a more conscious choice of studies and, as a result, a more concentrated and faster completion of the study. As the access arrangements were re-limited, I believe that the focus should be on uniform quality access schemes in the long term. In this context, I believe, let us say, that the argument put forward today by some, that access restrictions have a negative impact on social interference, is worthy of discussion. Why? – If you look at colleges and educational universities, where there are mostly restrictions on access, you can see that the proportion of children working there is higher than in universities. I believe that this novelle to the university law is a first, necessary step. In my opinion, however, the next step must be to extend access schemes to further fields of study, or to introduce moderate, socially acceptable study contributions accompanied by a study funding. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e6310	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I do not recognise the rapporteur's wish for a final word. We shall therefore vote on the draft law in 808 of the Supplements. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Maurer, has tabled an additional request. I shall therefore first vote on the supplementary proposal mentioned and then on the draft law. Mr Maurer, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an additional motion for a resolution on Article 1. If you wish to accept this request, please give a sign. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. Now I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the present draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report, to have the same sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. Third reading: I ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to agree to this draft law at third reading too, to give a sign. – That is, in turn, the required majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[12:27:09]] 3rd. Point Report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the Government template (806 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Electrical Engineering Act 1992 (ETG 1992) (832 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e6371	We're coming to 3. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First word message: Mr Mag. Lettenbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e6399	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! With the current amendment of the Electrical Engineering Act, we are taking a further step towards deepening the European internal market by uniformly regulating the market conditions for electronic devices. It may, as has already been done in the Committee, warn one or the other of a possible bureaucracy and once again unravel its concerns about the European Union, but I can calm you – and that has already been achieved in the Committee –: This is actually the opposite. In fact, this law leads to the harmonisation of technical standards in Europe. Above all, the legislative amendment also aims to ensure that manufacturers will be responsible for the conformity testing of their products in the future, regardless of whether they come from Europe or not. The importer is now responsible for the manufacturer having its products checked. This is also to be supported from the industry's point of view, as manufacturers finally know more about the technical specifications of their products than trade, and they can also answer the questions of the control authorities better and faster. This results in both a time and a quality gain for industry and trade. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this means that in the future there will no longer be any liability for retail trade if, for example, a harmful washing machine is put into circulation, but the manufacturer is obliged to act, just as it is in the law, i.e. if the manufacturer is of the opinion or has reason to believe that one of his colleagues The product brought into circulation does not satisfy the requirements of the Electrical Engineering Act. Mr Vice-Chancellor has already rightly pointed out in the Committee that this law will not put any red tape on red tape. Instead, the law aims to create a national legal framework in order to formulate, on the one hand, market surveillance requirements in the necessary clarity, and on the other hand, to provide an appropriate national basis for national market surveillance activities by reviewing the Electrical Engineering Act with a view to the current or upcoming revisions and adaptations of the Directives in the harmonised field. In summary, the Law The following words: The approval of electrical equipment is harmonised throughout Europe. For economic and industrial operators, this means a shift in competence from the dealer to the manufacturer. The area of responsibility of the competent authorities shall be precisely regulated. And an essential advantage for the economy: There is no new build-up of bureaucracy. – Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e6441	Next, Mr Matznetter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e6462	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to welcome the Pensionistenverband Schiffswerft from Linz. I'm glad you're visiting us today, on such an important day! [[He also welcomed SPÖ and FPÖ, as well as representatives of the ÖVP.]] The question is sometimes asked: What is the electrical engineering law concerned with? – It is precisely those things that allow for a very, very high standard in Austria. If you go shopping today, buy an electric device and infect it, you can assume that you can do this in high security that no risk to life and health of It consists of you and your family, while at the same time you can choose from a wide variety of products without having to worry about them – as in many other countries – whether this product can be used for you with your constellation of household electric lines. This works very well, and in this way we are taking further steps with this law, because in the area where standards are necessary – including in a market economy – we can also implement a relatively strict regulatory corset with as little burden as possible through bureaucracy. In this country, we are now much more inclined to speak ourselves worse than we are. – This could be seen as a criticism of Mr Finanzminister’s budget speech, but it is not. . I would just like to point out some of the facts that we discussed in the Committee almost together with the Elektrotech-niksgesetz. We had a discussion with Professor Aeginger about what our economic situation looks like. We don't have to make ourselves worse than we are! In the newspapers it is to be read today: Austria is the fourteenth largest country in Europe, the fourteenth largest in the world! Before the eyes and bad-makers of the opposition come back, just a few things have been remembered: If you set an index 100 for the last year before the crisis, 2007, there are two countries in the European Union that have long been at pre-crisis level: Germany and Austria. We have around 5 percent higher economic performance than before the crisis in 2007, while the euro area has just arrived at the level of 2007. I am not talking about countries like Spain or even Greece. We are here among the top performers – not regional league. We are indeed among the top countries! We almost always have a uniform course towards Germany at this time, when you look at it. We are now a little under Germany for the last two years – before we were above Germany. And when did the biggest advantage ever come from growth? – This may have been written in the main book by all the critics of government policy: When we made the 2009 tax reform, the first year after the crisis, Austria performed best! Why? – Because this federal government has done exactly the right thing to discharge domestic demand. And what was there for a counterwind at the time of the 2008 National Council election! That's what we can't do, we don't have any money, and I don't know what arguments could be heard. But it was true! And just as correct will be the 5 billion that will be at 1. January will be in the wallet of the Austrians. They will ensure demand, consumption will grow by 1.3 percent the next year alone, and they will be drivers for a better performance of this country. This Faymann government is doing its business – as is visible from the figures – very, very well. In view of this performance, not even the choking of fears through the FPÖ does not help. We are doing better than ever with a party like the FPÖ, by the way also in the Electrical Engineering Act.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e6520	I think I have heard the word ‘Electronics law’ in the course of your speech, Mr Deputies. [[Abg. Matznetter: (on the way to his seat) Three times I have called it!]] Even three times?- Oh, my God! Next word: Mr. Themessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e6557	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear visitors to the gallery! I also welcome an entrepreneur from Switzerland among our guests, and, Mr Minister of Economic Affairs and Mr Matznetter, I would suggest that you have a brief discussion with a small businessman from Switzerland. Then you will find out under what conditions it is possible in Switzerland to manage successfully, including as small and medium-sized enterprises, and then you will also see how far we in Austria are behind in certain things. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Vice Chancellor Mitterlehner: Then talk about...!]] Mr Federal Minister, on and for himself this item on the agenda for a debate does not give much attention. There is nothing wrong with understanding a certain degree of harmonisation in the legislation of the EU Member States, so we will agree with it as a whole. But, Minister of Economic Affairs, I would also like to use this point to discuss the work of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. You know, as a matter of principle, these entire regulations, which so come from the EU on to us in the quarterly period, are hindering our economy. Parade companies like the Voest build their new plant in the USA or in South America or anywhere. You know that we are always lagging behind in global economic growth, and we have been limping behind the EU for years. You have known for years, and you always admit this in four-eye discussions that there is a need for action, whether in terms of business transfers, or in terms of a final revision of the trade order. Mr Matznetter tells me that you're right, it just doesn't happen. And now I will take the meetings of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. First of all, they are relatively rare, and when they take place, they are like last Wednesday: We have ten agenda items, one of them is a debate with you – that is all right and that is welcome – then there is another report on the competition authority, and then there is a single agenda item of the government – and that is the harmonisation of these legal provisions, which is set by the EU. And then there are seven items on the agenda of the opposition. And I picked this out: Since the beginning of this legislative period, 34 items of the opposition have been filed on the agendas of the meetings of the Economic Committee and 33 of them have been postponed in the Committee in principle. That means they never come to the public. And if we are now taking the last meeting of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs last week, then on their agenda there were great requests from the opposition parties – from the NEOS, from the Greens, also from us – and they are not coming to the public! That's what it's all about, I say once, to reorganize the Chamber of Commerce. [[Abg. Mr Matznetter: You have also forgotten, Mr Colleague!]] It's about things like that. And, among other things, it is also about the fact that our colleague, Kassinger, has made the request to end these untold economic sanctions against Russia, which only hinder us ourselves, which, according to your ministry and your economic researcher, will cost us 40 000 jobs and will probably cost us even more over the next few years. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] And here, Mr Matznetter stands up and praises him for saying that he can win a lot of money, so does he. But then he goes here and says, Well, but, ladies and gentlemen, you have made the request in the wrong committee, which belongs to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, of red and black! It's a plantation! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And I am eager when you will finally make the effort to respond to opposition requests in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. Then you would be on a good way to finally improve the economic conditions for businesses in Austria. We'll help you with this.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e6628	Next word: Mr Köchl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e6649	Dear ladies! Dear gentlemen! In the electrical engineering law we are discussing here today, we have no increased need for discussion. It is simply the implementation of EU law, the reasonable implementation of EU law, and we have recently seen in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, and the FPÖ has not succeeded in constructing EU bureaucracy from this simplification. I am already of the opinion that the mixer in Poland probably explodes as it explodes in Germany if it does not fit from the technical point of view. So here we do not need to talk artificially again and again about EU bureaucracy, but today we do exactly the opposite with our consent. If you look at that, there's actually only small details where you can hook in. At this point, I can create the transmission from consumer and consumer protection. There is a database in which dangerous products are kept. It is also found in this law. However, this database is not consumer-friendly, consumer-friendly, but hard to understand, one actually needs someone to explain it. At the same time, we have the debate that the Association for Consumer Information, the VKI, is increasingly losing its financial foundations. The Consumer Information Association has already received more than one inflation adjustment. The Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Agriculture have resigned. This important initiative, which does very valuable work – aspires to model processes, completed 115 tests in the previous year, writes reports, simply represents the consumers in Austria and is also represented in various advisory boards, for example in the electrical advisory board – this VKI actually has the promise that one would like to use the fines from cartel procedures partially for him in future. However, this requirement from the government programme has still not been implemented. So it's going to be time from our point of view. That is why we are making the following request today, which I would like to make: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e6707	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Köchl is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e6771	Next speaker: Mr Schellhorn. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e6792	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor, Minister of Energy! First, of course, I would like to refer to the Federal Law, with which the Electrical Engineering Act is to be amended. The current novel is a very sensible and supportive request, because the internal market strengthens uniform market conditions in this respect, which is absolutely necessary. It was also particularly important that these eight EU Directives were revised in the European Commission's signed package. I do not think that this is contrary, but if – and I join my colleague, Themessl – that is the truth of the shameful output process of the last Economic Committee, I am sorry about it. If I have heard the statements of Mr. Finanzminister, what he is up to and how all this is to be reformed, then I can only stop him from what Mr Themessl – whom I very much appreciate in his opinion, not ideologically, but in his opinion – said: We are really World Endowment Champions and Retirement World Champions in the Committees. I just think it's also a political form of democracy, something that's shubby. Where are all the good suggestions for a reformer-necessary government, for a reformer-necessary federal government? – Just for ideological reasons and for this coalitional standstill, these suggestions are adjourned, Mr Matznetter. Nothing else happens. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] No other point of view, no other idea... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] – This is not an achievement, Mr Matznetter. But let me consider something else that has to do with energy, namely: The future common price zone with Germany must not fall. Why do we even discuss this? – I would like from the Minister of Energy and Vice-Chancellor that we will finally also have an energy strategy by 2050 and have a master plan. The only one who has a master plan is the e-control. She does what she wants. However, I believe that it will be particularly important for us to have a corresponding definition of price policy, particularly in energy policy. In this respect, it is absolutely necessary for the Austrian economic location to make an equal contribution to Germany and not to purchase a damage of € 275 million in this respect, namely because the megawatt hour in the event of a break-off. This price policy will increase by € 5 more expensive. This harms the location, but it also harms every individual citizen in that country. As Mr Lettenbichler once again stressed, in the course of this amendment, that the issue of the internal market is important, I must say: It is precisely the opposite that is done if we are pursuing a market sharing in terms of this common price policy. Let me say one more to the Energy Master Plan: There's no such thing as that. We have nothing on the table in this respect – I wrote it out – except six studies, which have cost a lot of money and are now shubbled. I would like to list these studies, which, I believe, are going somewhere in the Vice-President's office, and also mention the costs. We have, of course, also received this from the Federal Minister for Finance. In 2012, Strategy Lab GmbH was commissioned to make a website regarding energy supply in Austria for €96 000. The Federal Ministry of Finance has the WIFO energy scenarios 2050 with 51,950 €, the AEA the energy scenario with 84,150 €. In 2013, there was another study, which has not yet been completed, with €98 700. And then it comes: In 2014, there was another study of €63 000. – And nothing happened! Except for nothing to pay! We are already expecting a reasonable energy policy, because it is also about the future in this country and not just about small outputs of EU innovation when we summarize eight directives into one. That would be responsible energy policy. And responsible energy policy also needs large companies, the businesses need the energy suppliers, and not this federal around-spinnery; if a country captain is somehow a little stupid – excuse me! –, that is, a little counter sits in the federal thought, a bit evil – let's say so – and it doesn't want to, then he makes it different. This is not representative of a small country. I'm ashamed of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e6875	Curve taken! Next word: Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e6899	Mr President. Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Listeners on the gallery and in front of the TV sets! In the present Federal Act, which amends the Electrical Engineering Act 1992, the colleagues have already mentioned that it is an adaptation to EU standards and harmonisation. In the sense of Austria's economic location, this is a simplification. Since no additional costs are incurred for the traders and economic operators in our federal state, this is also to be supported. When we talk about simplification, I can put in here a point of discussion that I hear again and again, partly in shops, partly at meetings with citizens. If we are talking about simplifications and when energy has been said about the previous speaker, we should also talk about the success of this variety or number of batteries, battery sizes, battery shapes to submit to a standard – certainly in agreement with producers, but entirely in the interests of the environment, in the interests of consumers and of course also of merchants and commercial markets on the ground. What is there for a variety in the market, that is, I think, really far away from all necessity. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Mr Matznetter has voted in favour of the best functioning economy in Austria. I also believe that we can be proud of our location, but we must not underestimate the international rankings, Mr President. Interestingly, we are falling back continuously. – This is a contradiction to your statements. But since Mr Themessl has rightly criticized this kind of committee meetings – for me it was the first Economic Committee that reminded me very much of the other committees, with this postponement policy – it must be mentioned that if the Russian sanctions are the problem presented, then it is incomprehensible that we do not go into plenary with this subject. This is like other topics: One has nothing of it if the ideas and the requests are praised and perfectly courted, but then are postponed and often brought back in a modified form or in slightly modified form by the government parties. I believe that it is necessary, also to inform our citizens, that they can actually experience the discussions on these important issues, in part very important topics here in plenary, so that they can hear the views of the opposition parties as well. This is very essential, because otherwise it is always generally said in the public: the politicians! – We must weaken this and say: the government! That is why the opposition and our side again and again comes from the accusation of a standstill and a postponement to the government. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] We will vote in favour of these agenda items, including TOP 4 on the agreement with Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e6959	Mr. Dr. Mitterlehner has now spoken. - Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e6981	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! This item on the agenda is characterized or influenced by the procedure of certain stereotypes, because hardly anyone is actually talking about the subject. I am surprised that even more speakers are on the speaker list now than on the really important topic of university law before. But I think it is necessary to meet the stereotypes accordingly; this is especially true of the colleagues of the Freedom Party. I believe that we needed an hour in the Committee until Mr Köchl's colleagues from the Freedom Party were able to convince that the usual record – all that comes from the EU – was expensive, bureaucracy and burdened consumers – was misimposed in this case, because the law, which is based on an EU directive, in principle brings more clarity to the consumer, in principle no one is burdened with regard to costs and no new authority is to be set up, but it is implemented within the framework of the supervision of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. I do not know where Mr Themessl has now gone, obviously to his business friend from Switzerland, because he has previously been apostrophized. Switzerland is also participating in the implementation of this law. It will also be implemented there to address these framework directives and their implementation. Perhaps he will also have noticed that there are sometimes disadvantages there, such as the problem of Euro and Franks, which has led to developments in the tourism sector in particular, of which we – in this case I am pleased to say – have to benefit in Tyrol and Vorarlberg. Secondly, it was also necessary to hold the debate in the Economic Committee in this width and depth in order to meet a second stereotype. The second stereotype is also presented today: We're limping the economic data of the others. Look at the growth rates of recent years! We were 2009, 2010 – and other years have already been mentioned – always above the European section and then – you really have to admit that – we had a delle last year and in the current year, a delle because we had problems in export there and there, too. Mr. Professor Aiginger has explained in detail in the Committee what happened to us, namely that Germany on the one hand is not as strong as hoped for, and on the other hand that the Black Sea market as the driver for the export sector has rather failed us because of the current problems. Nevertheless – and that was the result of the Committee, which perhaps everyone has taken away; not all –: We have now re-opened in growth. According to the IMF estimate, we have 1.6 percent growth, according to IHS 1.5 percent, and even this is always very hesitant WIFO at 1.4 percent. The euro area average is 1.5 percent. So we're right back where the others are. It was a medium-term pick-up process in recent months. I dare say: If the tax reform begins to work, we will even be above it next year – if nothing happens, it will always have to be said about the external framework conditions, how Ukraine or Russia's problems were just a deterioration in the external environment. And now on the quality of the abandoned applications. Look, the matter... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hauser.]] – I didn’t understand you now, but if you think it’s important, say it! - Isn't it so important? [[Abg. Hauser: But the Minister of Finance has just said something else in his budget speech! I've documented this in writing.]] - What? What else did I say? – Mr Finanzminister, read his speech! [[Abg. Hauser: After we are naturally behind in the economic data!]] In that case, it is even available in written form. He has pointed out that we have now reached the average area again, and I have also told you that will not satisfy us. [[Abg. Hauser: We are not in the top field!]] The potential up there is, and we want to strive for that. The tax reform will contribute to this. Secondly, as far as the medium-term future is concerned, we will have further reforms there and there, especially in the pension area, but not only there, but also there, to implement reforms, in order to secure the future. That's it. But what I wanted to point out is that the stereotype, we are far behind the other, is just a stereotype and should not be repeated in this way – you will still bring it back – just as everything that comes from the EU is not bureaucratic, but in many cases also the p.t. Consumers are useful as well as in the specific case. – In that sense, I also managed to mention the subject, but to talk about something else. Unfortunately, I still have to speak to my colleague, Schellhorn. He thought, "Electric" and "Energy", that kind of depends, so let's get the plate off the energy situation again. – First of all, we have an energy strategy. The Energy Strategy will continue until 2020 and will set very precisely the 20-20-20 targets, including in coordination with the EU. The EU has now continued these objectives by 2030. Since there are also certain external effects, such as the climate conference now in Paris, it makes sense to carry out what we have in the government programme, namely the continuation of the energy strategy, also taking account of these developments. What you have now mixed with this, namely the problem of price zones with Germany, is something quite different, although it is directly – indirectly, one has to say – also related to the energy strategy, but is an impact on the promotion of renewable energy, which is because so much renewable energy comes from Germany to the Czech Republic and Poland that they cannot really process it there. That's what the prices are. Because we have a uniform price zone with Germany, they want to stop the price zone and virtually assign us to the eastern area – in that case the word “Eastliga” is really appropriate. That means that this might mean high prices for us. But now the line is that we don't want it. However, energy control is not Austria, but ACER, which is the European Energy Authority. There we are in intensive contacts and negotiations. The German position, the Austrian position, is that we want the uniform price zone. And price fixing is not a definition of a particular brand, but it would give rise to the system. That's the background. [[President Hofer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Of course, we do not want a system where, if there is no single price zone, prices may go up for that reason. That is the background, and we probably agree from the point of view. The studies that “walk around somewhere ” with me have not been seen, they must have hidden well. They don't really have the influence you meant to have on the overall development. However, we should like to talk about all these issues in the Committee, which also has energy competence. Or we make a bilateral appointment. I am sorry if we always confront the others with something surprising, which has a linguistic similarity – “energy” and “electro”, which is somehow related – but is not really on the agenda. - So much for it. The offer stands. Whether you accept it or not, you decide for yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e7071	As the next speaker, Mrs Minzig is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e7092	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Yes, it is interesting to see on which topics this directive attracts the gentlemen of the opposition. It is a sensible directive that we implement with no gold plating. The advantage is: Our entrepreneurs, who are relieved of local dealers, will be relieved of responsibility, and manufacturers will have to demonstrate the EU conformity of their goods. This will improve the functioning of our internal market, which is in the interests of all of us. I understand Mr Themessl: It is difficult once there is an EU directive which it cannot criticise. I can only guess from the opposition: If you take better care of the Committee, take better care of the plenary session, then you will know which projects are in the pipeline, which projects the Ministry is working on, and then we will save ourselves the unnecessary discussion here!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e7125	The next speaker is Mr Katzian. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e7156	Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to say, Mr Köchl, that you have said that you have a bit of a ‘one-day’ speech here, which somehow does not really fit in with it, but, of course, I am right in the matter myself, because that was also an important point in the government negotiations at the time. This is also the reason why the financing of the VKI is included in the Government Agreement, and it is also the fact that a solution is being worked very intensively. Nevertheless, this request is part of the Committee on Budgets if it is to be submitted in this way. I believe, however, and I assume that the topic of financing of the VKI will be solved in these days and hours, so I am very convinced personally, because I also assume that what is out is being observed and is at the moment not about what, but about how, to find a solution. It has been explained what the electrical engineering law is all about. It is, as so often, the national implementation of an EU standard, a sensible EU standard, as I believe, which has nothing to do with excessive red tape. On the contrary: I believe that if there is also a security for consumers and for traders and producers, then this is something that really brings us on in terms of quality and in terms of seriality. We have already targeted the low energy consumption of electrical appliances in the Electrical Engineering Act. Against the background of the adaptations to the Energy Labelling Directive, I believe that effective market surveillance will also help to ensure that the devices keep what the data on the Taferls or the Zettels promise – and this will also bring us a big step towards energy efficiency. Mr Apropos, Federal Minister: After all, we are all eagerly waiting for the directive on the energy efficiency monitoring body, and I would like to ask you very much for support that we are thinking about the essential thing, namely increasing energy efficiency, and that we see that we are holding out the most diverse lobbying wishes so that we can also implement what we have agreed together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e7194	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Schellenbacher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e7217	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and in front of the screens! Mr Federal Minister, I will take up your suggestions and now try to talk exclusively about the electrical engineering law. I can also confirm to you – knowing that it actually does not make any changes to technical terms – that this law is a very good one, and I am not afraid to have to support our entrepreneurs negatively or bureaucraticly in a Europe-wide comparison, because I am very sure that these standards have long been in compliance with everything we need. However, I would like to address the legal requirements, because it is legal: We are talking about notified bodies and notified authorities. The authorities shall provide the directives and the notified bodies shall carry out the implementation of the technical requirements in the form of laboratories. Neutral, cost-neutral – as I read from the law – is exclusively that these €80 000, which are set for monitoring, remain cost-neutral. An example from practice: If I have a device notified for conformity, Intron costs a device €80 000. This has been the case for a long time, but this quality can probably also be used economically in the future. These things should be called by name. This is important, but we must ensure that this is also controlled. The market review of whether non-certified devices spoil the market and bring disadvantages can only be carried out in such a way as to test it in a sustainable manner. If it says that €80 000 costs such a review, a market study costs €80 000, then I wish you €80 million to check it and not this little money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e7247	The next speaker is Mrs Ecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e7269	Mr President. Minister! High house! One thing has to be clarified, the opposition is right, but at the same time it is completely wrong. The opposition is correct when it exhorts things that are improved in Austria, and it is wrong – I would like to replicate on my previous speaker, Mr Themessl, who is unfortunately not in the hall – to accuse the government of things that are currently at work. That's what I'm saying today, because what do we decide today? – A law on harmonisation, the reduction of bureaucratic requirements by the Electrical Engineering Act! Mrs Lichtenecker, too, expressed the wish in a current request that overregulation should be slowed down by standards, but this is happening at present. This is happening at the moment, and the SPÖ is also emphatically doing so. If you already demand things, then you should look into what is happening exactly, then you would realize that we are already intense about it for good reason. However, I take this as a compliment, because the opposition always has to catch up and criticize it; only if things are already happening at government level, then it is not a bad thing to talk about here. We bring things, new things like the tax reform that brings something to all the people in this country, more money to people in the stock exchange, and by this increased purchasing power, it also brings to the companies something that I think is good. One can now promise everyone the blue from heaven, only our Finance Minister has already explained it to us today; he has compared Parliament and the government with the Austrian football team. There is being played together, there will be gathered, pulled at a strand, and here I will also invite you to be successful. [[Abg. Brosz: You can't compare that now, the national team and the government!]] Help with the change, that would be the better alternative! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e7311	Mr Wimmer has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e7333	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It has been announced very often today what this matter is about. It's a novel to the Electrical Engineering Act. I would like to begin by saying that it is useful for us to implement this measure, and we have taken note of it unanimously in the Committee; the discussions that have been held there have been very constructive, and I now assume that we will also adopt this amendment unanimously in plenary. However, there are other areas where we could need such EU-wide rules and minimum standards. I would remind you, for example, of the negotiations on the free trade agreements. We need a minimum standard, because if we know how the TTIP negotiations are going, we need not be surprised that the Austrians are currently almost 70 percent opposed to this trade agreement. For example, we needed minimum standards regarding solidarity with refugees in Europe, because we know that our eastern neighbours are pressing ahead with responsibility, and there would be a need for minimum standards. Similarly, we needed minimum standards in the fight against wage and social dumping or, for example, minimum standards for corporate taxation, ladies and gentlemen. Profits must be taxed where they are generated, and not anywhere, for example in Ireland or Bermuda. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Feichtinger.]] This is what people expect from the European Union, that is, we still have a lot of work ahead of us. The electrical engineering law will be passed unanimously here today, I believe. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e7369	The next speaker on the topic of electrical engineering law is Mr Kirchgatterer. I should like to remind you of the subject, honourable Member. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e7390	Mr President. Federal Minister! This item on the agenda is about the Electrical Engineering Act, and my previous speakers have already stressed that it brings the same, reasonable market conditions for dealers, for producers, for importers and exporters. The Committee's approval was broad, and the benefit to consumers is obvious. Ladies and gentlemen! A number of economic issues have been discussed in the discussion, and I would like to stress the reform of standards, which was addressed by my colleague Cornelia Ecker. There's a government. There have been a lot of discussions on this subject. It is an important area, especially for trade. For smaller businesses in the industry, there is a need to achieve advantages for consumers similar to those of today's electrical engineering law, which we will insist on in a very reasonable time window. Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to stress the tax treatment of farms. The large companies can pick out the raisins, and there is an international level playing field between businesses. A third point, which has not yet been mentioned but is also of great importance, is the reform of the tendering conditions here in the country, in Austria, in particular in the construction sector, in public procurement. The best bidder scheme would offer significant benefits in terms of quality of work, for employees, for consumers, and I know that many in this House are also working intensively, as improvement and re-regulation are to be achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e7433	Mr Ehmann. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e7454	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The Electrical Engineering Act has already been dealt with in detail by my previous speakers. A few comments: I think that in future users of non-conform This will ensure that products are better protected, because it de facto ensures that they are standardised for all Member States. The economic operators, such as manufacturers, importers and dealers, of course benefit from the uniform market conditions. Indeed, those companies which would not take these rules into account when introducing a product would have an unfair advantage over those undertakings that comply with the rules on the movement. It is therefore a question of creating a level playing field. This, of course, also means an advantage for consumers and their protection. Assuming consumer protection: There is indeed this motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Köchl, Member of the Katzian Group, which has already addressed this issue, which deals with the financial security of the Consumer Information Association. From our point of view, this motion for a resolution, which has been tabled, is rejected, because today the Council of Ministers has already agreed that support will be provided to the CCI for up to € 2 million, which is now being dealt with in the parliamentary process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e7481	The last speaker in this debate is Mrs Magistrate. Greiner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e7503	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I should like to sum up once again the essential points of this electrical engineering law. It is essentially about improving the harmonisation of market surveillance. Who's the use of this? – This benefits the producers, which benefits the dealers, they find clear framework conditions. This law also ensures clear competition, and it benefits consumers who gain safety in order to ensure that the products they use are not harmful to health and can be used safely accordingly. We are adopting a specific law on a specific area. In general, however, the focus must also be placed on many other areas which constitute an industrial and economic location. What challenges await us? Austria has a role to play in many areas, and this could also be the case in the field of social partnership. It is about strengthening, strengthening and expanding social partnership structures in the future. A central issue will be distribution justice. It will be important to distribute work justly. What has already been implemented on the issue of distribution justice? ==References== In January of next year, the tax reform will be effective, 6.4 million people will be relieved by a total of €5.2 billion, and the SPÖ has insisted that the so-called negative tax will be tripled in the form of a credit and will rise to up to €400. This is especially beneficial for part-time workers, including many women, who benefit apprentices, and this benefits small pensioners. [[Abg. Brosz:... Electrical engineering!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The above mentioned points are a crucial contribution to the future development of Austria as a sustainablely attractive and competitive industrial and economic location. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e7541	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 806 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That is also unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Steinhauser, colleagues on financial security of the Consumer Information Association. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is rejected. [[13:17:40]] 4. Point Government template: Convention on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Economic Area, including the Final Act, including those attached to it (784, e.g.) (in accordance with § 28a GOG no committee preliminary advice)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e7606	We're now on the 4th. Agenda item. The preliminary consultation in a committee was suspended in accordance with Article 28a of the Rules of Procedure. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e7635	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Yes, this agreement on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Economic Area is an important contribution to the stability of Europe as a whole, and, of course, it also has a signal effect on the other states of the Western Balkans that full integration into the European Union is possible when the corresponding reforms are made in the country and the European values are accepted. I can join you there: I believe that with the single market and with the single currency, we have written a success story that opens up new opportunities for us, and Croatia has recognised that it also wants to take advantage of these opportunities. This is how we today decide on the full accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EEA Agreement. When I speak of Europe and investment in Europe, I would like to take the opportunity to congratulate Willi Molterer, who is in front of the appointment as the head of the European Investment Fund – an important position for this very initiative to promote economic growth – from this point of view, Parliament, and to wish him much success in his new task. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I can make it relatively short: It is very welcome that Croatia is now part of this Community, especially for Austria, which has many contacts with Croatia and is also exporting a lot to Croatia. Our export volume in the first quarter of 2015 thus amounted to € 320 million, and the import volume from Croatia is also correspondingly high at € 115 million. There is still a huge trading potential ahead of us. Through Croatia's accession to the EEA, we are simply creating a much more common market, strengthening the architecture of the Economic Union and creating jobs. We welcome Croatia in the European Economic Area!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e7674	Mr Köchl. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e7696	Dear ladies! Dear gentlemen! We Greens too expressly welcome the fact that Croatia has now arrived not only in the EU but also in the European Economic Area. Croatia was already on the 9th. The EU Accession Treaty was signed in Brussels on 1 December 2011. The agreement on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Economic Area has been in force since 12. April 2014, that is, since the previous year, in force. Today, this comes into Parliament and is expressly in favour of our approval and our support. We believe that Austria will have some exciting topics with Croatia in the near future, for example as regards Croatia's 50 percent participation in the Krško AKW or the World Food Programme, in which Austria and Croatia have not yet paid anything, with Croatia still sparse, while Austria is now taking the first steps. – So there are a lot of topics. If you set up page 6 of the Agreement, You see something that may be below the media awareness threshold – even I'm just overstamped –: Hungary is expressly committed to getting the words “the Republic” deleted, so it is no longer “the Republic of Hungary”, but because of the new Hungarian Constitution, it is now only “Hungary”. This is, of course, significant and fits exactly to the current situation and to the situation in Hungary – no longer ‘Republic of Hungary’; this is also the case in this agreement. Finally, I just say: Welcome to Croatia! Dobro došla Hrvatska! – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e7738	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. In accordance with Article 65 of the Rules of Procedure, we shall now proceed to the vote on the approval of the State Treaty. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, in 784 of the Supplements, approve the State Convention on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Economic Area and the Final Act, including those attached to it, in Article 50(1). 1 Z 1 B-VG to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[13:22:37]] 5. Point Report of the Health Committee on the Government Template (777 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law establishing a Federal Act implementing Union legislation in the field of organic production, protected designations of origin and traditional specialities (EU Quality Regulations Enforcement Act – EU-QuaDG), amending the Health and Food Safety Act and the Trademark Protection Act 1970, and repealing the beef and veal labelling Act (811 d.e.) 6. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment 1289/A(E) by Mrs Ulrike Weigerstorfer, colleagues and colleagues on the final ban on glycosate (812d.B.) 7. Point Report by the Committee on Health on Amendment No 642/A(E) by Mr Ulrike Weigerstorfer, colleagues and colleagues on the obligation of castration for cats and cats - clarification of the text in the second part Animal welfare regulation on the animal welfare law’ (813d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e7802	We now come to points 5 to 7 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Jannach. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e7832	Mr President. Mrs Health Minister! I refer to Agenda item 5, EU Quality Regulations Enforcement Act. We have discussed this in the Health Committee, but we do not see much improvement in it. I know we need to implement this EU regulation, but of course we would have liked to have a little more emphasis on the quality of this law, in terms of improving the clear labelling for consumers. A sub-area includes this label ‘protected geographical indication’. [[The speaker shall keep a sheet of paper to the level on which the EU Community sign for products with protected geographical indication is shown]] This label suggests to the consumer that the product comes from the region concerned. Mrs Health Minister, you know that is not always the case, and that is very unfortunate. We discussed in the Committee very much about the "Tyrol Speck" of the company Handl. – I would like to point out once again: If the company Handl writes “protected geographical indication” on its products, then that is legal. This is completely clear by law. The company can use ingredients from other federal states as well as from other EU countries for its products. This is also quite logical: The company Handl Tyrol processes 300 000 or 400 000 pigs, but there are only about 12,000 pigs in Tyrol, which simply cannot fit together. Unfortunately, the law we are adopting today does not regulate anything in this regard. We wish that “protected geographical indication” should only be used as “protected designation of origin”: that the product must also come there. In the case of ‘protected geographical indication’, only one of the stages of production – in this case the processing – of this product must take place in a given area of origin. In my opinion, the legal error of consumers is legal, and we strongly oppose that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Then the argument has been raised, there is the labelling with the AMA seal, which indicates that the products are obtained from Austria. [[The speaker shall hold a sheet of paper in the height on which the label is shown with the AMA seal]] However, there is also a criticism here: This label regulates everything as far as fresh meat is concerned very clearly – to a better understanding: fresh meat means unprocessed meat, that is, ham and the like – but not as far as the processing area is concerned, but which in the case of meat is the much larger part. Products marked with the AMA seal are permitted to process up to a tolerance range of 30 percent ingredients that are not of Austrian origin. I quote the directive for the AMA seal as examples of correct use: “Furthermore, in the case of processed foods, those raw materials that cannot be produced in this region and in the relevant quality” – which is already questionable – “are a permissible quantity range of up to a third (...).” I think this is equally questionable. We should use this sign, if we already use it, only for products that come exclusively from Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We therefore have proposals for improvement in these two areas, both as regards the ‘protected geographical indication’, and also as regards the ‘AMA seal’: At the AMA seal, all ingredients should come from Austria – with the exception of spices that cannot be produced here, but this cannot be 30 percent of a product, but maybe 5 percent. When it comes to marking ‘protected geographical indications’, we want it to guarantee the consumer what it is all about now, namely that the product comes from this region as well. So we do not agree with this proposal. This may bring a small change in the field of control or harmonisation. Unfortunately, this does not work for the consumer. We wish, and I believe, Mrs Health Minister, that you are here, too; it has failed so far with the resistance of the Ministry of Agriculture – that something is being changed. I hope that we will also create clarity for consumers in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e7913	Next speaker: Mr Ehmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e7934	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I am also talking about the implementing law on EU quality schemes. Mr Jannach, you may be right that there are points of discussion in this area there and there, from your point of view, but I still believe that these changes bring benefits in many areas. What's this about? – At EU level, there is the Bio Regulation, which has been living in Austria for some time. However, it is finally about pouring this into national law as well. Organic farming has traditionally played a major role in Austria, which we are also happy with. This law, from my point of view, strengthens precisely this area of agriculture and thus also consumer confidence in organic products as a whole, which is now subject to improved control. In addition to the rules governing competence, the control procedure and the penalties to be imposed shall also be laid down. That means in the final consequence: Where bio insists, bio should also be inside. Overall, this draft law not only deals with improved control of organic farming, but also with the protected designations of origin of our traditional Austrian specialities, which Mr Jannach has just carried out. With this we also ensure the already high quality in Austria for the location Austria, keyword regionality. An example from my home is the Styrian pumpkin kernel oil. This law also provides for administrative simplification in this area, namely by streamlining the application procedure for products with protected designations of origin. This also means facilitating future applicants. From now on, the Patent Office is responsible. The products can thus be marketed faster under the protected designation of origin. In total, I think, this is a very reasonable solution, which, in the end, really means upgrading the organic farming sector in Austria. At this point, I would also like to thank the Federal Minister Sabine Oberhauser, who, after many years of negotiations – I think, it has been ten years in total – has finally succeeded in implementing this law for all concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e7983	Next speaker: Mrs VOYER (S). — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e8004	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! One word in advance to TOP 5, I think we all agree: Wherever Austria insists, Austria must always be inside. That is what consumers demand, and I think they are guilty of it. [[Complementary of the Abg. Dietrich.]] I would now like to lend my voice to the animals and also speak in the sense of many animal protectors. I would like to start with a quote from our wife, Minister Oberhauser, which was given on 4 May. October said: “When we integrate animal welfare into everyday life, every day can be a World Animal Protection Day.” – For example, Sabine Oberhause, the Minister of Animal Protection, on the occasion of the World Animal Protection Day on 4 May. October. And she added: “I am particularly pleased that we have already launched some important improvements to animal welfare this year.” – I can only say: Yeah, that's right, I'm very grateful to you for that. I would like to explain briefly what the proposal is about: The aim of the present proposal is to help ensure that there are as few freely living and at the same time uncastrated cat populations as possible in order to produce as little as possible unwanted offspring. We don't demand it from Jux and Tollery. All of them can surely remember many newspaper articles with pictures of young plastic bags, including plastic bags, drowned, beaten, or simply simply thrown heartlessly into a garbage container. It is a question of clarifying the requirement of castration for cats, and in particular of creating a general awareness of how to deal with these animals – cats and cats – and of adopting clear legal regulations. The aim can only be to avoid fulfilling any new or uncastrated populous cat populations. This requires three measures: a clarification of the legal basis which animals are actually meant; a commitment to the responsibility of those who are not officially owned; and, in order to prevent misunderstandings, a definition of the term cat, because many authorities want to understand only the female animals among them. This request concerns the current version of the second part of the text. To amend the animal husbandry regulation in order to eliminate those misunderstandings I have already mentioned. We discussed this in advance in committee. I can call again on Mrs Oberhauser's press release. There it says: ‘In the summer of this year, several regulations for animal welfare were sent in review. ==References====External links== Animal husbandry regulation will extend the castration obligation of cats with regular outdoor access to cats also to cats in farmed position.” This is precisely what this request is all about, because it opens up the possibility that those animals who live in the country and to whom no owner confesses themselves can be captured and castrated by animal protection organisations, by many animal protectionists who are really used for hours with a lot of work, with a lot of heart blood and also with financial effort. This measure is therefore an instrument designed to clarify public authorities, cats and animal welfare. This request was tabled by me over a year ago. He will now be implemented thanks to God. I thank you for this and would be glad if you agreed to this request, because if you can finally put the spring on the hat, I think the cats and the animal protectionists don't care. A very important word to the other request made by me, which concerns the final prohibition of glyphosate. We all know that glyphosate is one of the world's most used herbicides, to which the International Cancer Research Agency has already made a very clear position by linking it with the causes of cancer. There are several studies on this – not just one! – and it has been pointed out for many years that glyphosate can cause cancer in humans. The Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management has known these studies since 2010. In contrast to Austria, France has been a little more courageous. The French Minister for the Environment has shown the right reaction and banished glyphosate in France from the sales shelves. I would like to see the same thing here in Austria. I know that this proposal is allocated to the Committee on the Environment. Nevertheless, a certain sign from the Health Committee would also be good in this direction, because people are ultimately suffering and have to expect health consequences. Salzburg's Landtag, for example, is about to ban Glyphosate completely in Salzburg. So I hope that we will agree very quickly on the subject of glyphosate, no matter what committee, and that we can clearly suggest the use of glyphosate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e8074	Next speaker: Mr Eßl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e8096	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We are now discussing the EU Quality Regulation Enforcement Act. Mr Ehmann has already explained the content essentially, but I would like to look at some points even more closely. This law is primarily concerned with Regulation No. 834/2007 on organic production and labelling of organic products. In addition, this draft law deals with products with a protected designation of origin or with a protected geographical indication of origin. The Wachauer Marille or the Styrian pumpkin kernel oil are examples of such guaranteed traditional specialities. So it's about food – it's about food of a special kind. Especially when it comes to bio, it is about high standards, and this obviously requires a solid work in production, but also a high level of confidence among the population, with consumers in the product. Therefore, it is in the sense of both consumers and producers that there is a reliable control system, and this control system is governed by this law. The respective heads of state will be responsible for the implementation of accredited and certified control bodies. A control committee, in which authorities and practitioners are to sit, not only prepare control plans, directives and manuals, but also is entrusted with the preparation and approval of action catalogues. There will also be an amendment tabled by Mr Ehmann, Mr Eßl and Mr Pirklhuber, who, in Section 5 para. 2 adds a point 6 in which it reads: “the Preparation and approval of catalogues of measures in respect of requirements referred to in paragraph 1 and suspected of a manifest or gross violation of food, animal protection, feed, wine, plant protection, fertiliser or seed requirements.’; It is therefore about perceptions to be reported by the control bodies to the authority, or any infringements which must then be reported to the AMA by the heads of state. The aim of the ÖVP is to ensure that the bureaucracy is not unnecessarily bloated. Therefore, gross infringements should be reported, for example the use of prohibited fertilisers. It's about trust, it's about food safety. In the case of gross infringements, the recognition of the bio status of products shall be followed by the withdrawal of the status ‘biological economic mode’ for the entire holding. Infringements should continue to be sanctioned by the control body if, for example, access to animals is not registered on the third day, but only in the stock register on the fifth day, or if evidence is to be submitted. That means that unnecessary bureaucracy should be avoided, and I believe we can do that by this law. Legal provisions must also be practical. In the discussions on this law, I have encouraged the setting of transitional periods for bovine animals in fixed periods and not from the lifetime. I was referred to Brussels – and I am now entitled to mention that a amendment with number 1149 of the regulation in question was adopted yesterday, tabled by Elisabeth Köstinger and Norbert Lins. I'm allowed to go to Elisabeth's. Köstinger really thank you for this quick and consistent and meaningful process. It is important to us, ladies and gentlemen, that the consumer can be sure and that consumer confidence will be strengthened. However, it is also important that these high-quality foods are valued, that these high-quality foods are then bought and that the higher production costs are also paid accordingly. Austria is a bio-European champion, if not even a bio-world champion. We have reached 20 percent organically producing plants in Austria. In my native Salzburg it is more than 40 percent, and almost 50 percent of the areas are organically managed. Let us together ensure that we continue this success story in the future! This law can and will contribute to this, so I ask for approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e8163	The next speaker is Mr Riemer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e8184	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would like to comment on the issue of “the obligation of castration for cats and cats – clarification of the text passage”. I think the first quote is very important: It should be World Animal Protection Day every day! - That's point one. The second point to hold is: I would like to thank my colleague, Mr Refuserstorfer, for having made this request so that at least once one can talk about animal welfare. This also serves, of course, to show once that animals are not goods but compassionate creatures. This should also be given as a statement, if it is repeatedly suppressed in everyday life. What does the colleague want? – It’s basically easy: ‘If cats are kept outdoors with regular access, they shall be castrated by a veterinarian, provided that these animals are not used for controlled breeding or live in a farming position.’ This was once again an approach that has repeatedly led to misunderstandings. Except for that, the cats, cats used for breeding, or the cats were in a rural attitude. The practice shows that the nationally different interpretations have been approved. “The objective of the law should be to “prevent, in principle, wild cat populations, limit already wilded populations by castration actions, and thus allow them to die out naturally and to create a general awareness of how to deal with cats in Austria (...).” I don't think there's anything to add to it. This is even an essential story, because even if there are positive changes now, the problem will continue to exist. She also said to distinguish between cats and hangovers. - Yeah, that's right. Some veterinarians or animal welfare organisations or communities have different access and understand the gender-specific names under cat. That's what she just wanted to do. But to these cat populations, to these wild cats: Imagine, in Austria there are about 1.2 to 1.5 million domestic cats; these are cats in the house. There are also wild cats, at least 1.2 million. If you assume that of these 1.2 million cats, Mr. colleague, you are still talking about 600,000 females, and remember that a litter produces about 4 to 8 kittens, if you assume that 4 kittens come to the world per litter and that in wild cats two survive, then we have about 1.2 million wild cats. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Höfinger]] How do you become the Lord of Overpopulation? Of course, the domestic cats, which also have cat babies, which they are not supposed to have at all, are still coming, because, according to this legal castration obligation, they are not supposed to have any more litters. We see that there is a real need for action so that, in terms of animal welfare, we can finally act properly in accordance with the law. The new law, which really brings a substantial improvement, reads: ‘If cats are kept outdoors with regular access, they shall be castrated by a veterinarian unless these animals are used for breeding (...).’ That sounds crazy, it's good. The “rural” is gone. That means a farmed house cat is also to be castrated. – The legislator believes that all cats who bring their babies into the world in a barn or somewhere are excluded, and we have the same problem: There will continue to be scatter cats. Of course, national governments and animal welfare organisations are also invited to take appropriate measures to address the problem, as the problem remains. In Styria, for example, the former Council of State and today's third country president, Dr. Kurzmann, have launched a project – even before him – with which one has tried to deal with the problem with the wild cats. That's positive. But if one reads the texts of the law on this, For example – and this should not really be taken lightly – we should not only meet with cheerfulness, that is to say, according to the definition of a national office: ‘Where cats are kept outdoors with regular access, they shall be castrated by a veterinarian, provided that they are not kept for controlled breeding (...).’ The legislator thus expresses the need to castrate cats who are free living and not kept for breeding purposes. And now it comes: “cats which are not to be assigned to a holder are to be regarded as ‘funding matters’ (funding animals) and are subject to the fundamental provisions (...). According to Security Police Act, the Mayor’s Funding Authority is.” So, according to the Security Police Act, ladies mayors would be obliged to let the cats castrate. You see, this law is good, but the problems of cat overpopulation, the scatter cats are still not solved. It is up to the individual countries to achieve implementation. On the subject of animal protection, we only need to open up the magazine “Austria” today – and that is really something that turns my stomach around: ‘Eight Lamas starved in Carinthia’, or: ‘Katze claws torn out’. Your colleague, Mr Refuserstorfer, thank you once again for making this really clear: What kind of people are they who rip out the claws of a cat and then let them go until they end! I think that too is animal welfare, animal welfare is also a protection against human beings and respect for life in particular. I would therefore appeal that here we create much more issues, much more basis for discussion, so that we can put this into a wider spectrum of consciousness. There are many suggestions from animal protectionists, who also have proposals on the subject of cats, namely cats up to the 5th century. To allow life to be castrated as long as they are small, or to keep the data of the animal welfare associations waiting. There are, of course, also proposals to better anchor animal welfare in biology education, according to age, so that young people and young people can better deal with it later on. Mr Loacker, this is not ridiculous, animals are not commodities, they are living beings with feelings! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e8289	Mr Pirklhuber is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e8310	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Riemer spoke on this item on the agenda on animal welfare. There is no question that the scatter cats are really a problem here and there, but the request of my colleague, Mr Weigerstorfer, is overwhelming in that it is not possible to make the farmers responsible for everything that is moving in rural areas. That would be really overwhelming. That's the thing from our point of view. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Steinbichler.]] I think it is necessary to take regional action with an eye and with appropriate measures. That also has our approval. Back to the EU Quality Regulation Enforcement Act, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to take up once again the criticism of Mr Jannach. He argued that the geographical indications or the AMA seal require further enhancement. – This is indeed true, I also share this view, only the level at which it would have to be accessed would actually be a national legislation. This law, which is available, is a European implementing system which is very necessary and correct. The national regulation would be a quality seal law, a quality seal law that we have often tried – together here in Parliament, with a close of shoulders; There have already been multi-party agreements in this matter, and even in the last government programme it was included – but so far we have always failed with the agricultural representatives. So please, for your criticism, the Minister of Health is not really the first address, but the first address would be the Minister of Agriculture, and you also have my consent that we will work together for such a law. Mr Eßl rightly said: Bio is a success story! Mr Eßl, I support this 100%. You have also illustrated very beautifully, which makes this so to speak, for example by mentioning that we have 50 percent organic farming in Salzburg. – Yes, if 50 percent of areas in organic farming are successful in Salzburg, why do we not extend this success to all of Austria? A doubling of organic farming in Austria is, in fact, a matter that we need to move forward and in which we could and should join forces with an offensive bioaction plan; of course, not with the Minister of Health, but in the agricultural sector. If I can have your consent to this law, including for this bioaction plan to double organic farming in Austria as a success model, I am looking forward to the next discussions on this law. Why? – organic farming is – no question! – the role model for agriculture of the 21st century. ==References== It is about high quality food, it is about soil, species, water protection, climate protection, efficiency. It is efficient, it is also income-relevant for farmers, and it is a very important sign of food safety, in particular for consumers. This is the purpose of this bill. We have also discussed in advance what practical control is. The entire bio-regulatory is European, and negotiations are also under way at European level to further develop the Bio-Regulation. The implementation, this implementing law, also guarantees us the possibility of implementing uniform controls not only for the bio sector but also for protected geographical indications and designations of origin. We also expressly welcome this because there have been irregularities in the past. I would like to express my appreciation once again that we have succeeded in implementing another clarification together, so I make the following request – Mr Eßl has already read it, but I have to do it again for reasons of materiality to ensure that it is correctly implemented –: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is only in the case of obvious and gross infringements of these reporting obligations and also of these catalogues that monitoring remains practical. That is what we think is very wise, and I am pleased that we have agreed, Mrs Health Minister! Finally, on the request of the colleague, Rejectorstorfer, concerning glyphosate: We will refer this request to the Committee on Agriculture by a majority today. Why? – Because the Minister of Agriculture is also responsible for the authorisation of plant protection products. Yes, Glyphosate belongs forbidden, absolute agreement with you as to the matter, that is a risk story from A to Z! I was only recently in Bad Vöslau, where Colleague Mückstein, a city councillor, held a very exciting event, discussed this together with wine farmers, and they also see the problem. Glyphosate is widely used, one of the wine growers has said. It is a problem substance, we are aware; but there is no information – and I would like to explicitly criticize it here again – no critical or not sufficiently critical information in the agricultural media on this matter, explicitly in the chamber media. That is why, Mrs Federal Minister, I would ask you to exercise your competence as Minister of Health on this point, to move forward with the ban on glyphosate, to bring your arguments from the health field, especially as regards cancer prevention and risks, to meet and also to put pressure on the Minister of Agriculture, so that we can soon come to a glyphosate ban! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e8397	The second reading amendment is sufficiently supported and has been properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e8459	Mrs Oberhauser spoke on a point of view. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e8480	, MAS: Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We are already discussing the question of glyphosat in very, very many committees, and I say once again, something has already been done. We heard from the Committee that, for example, the Austrian Federal Railways were well aware of the dangers. On the railways where large-scale glycosate was used to be used in order to allow the train traffic to pass unhindered, it is now the case that the wagons are equipped with sensors that report to the headquarters where there is grass growth, and thus more or less care can be taken that glyphosate is not large-scale, but very targeted to keep the dose low. You know, we're still waiting for the studies. There is a study that is currently under consideration, which examines how dangerous it really is. I tell you, I'm happy about everyone who doesn't use glyphosate. I'm glad about every construction company, a construction market company like Bauhaus, which, as I think, took it out of the shelf. I know that the home markets are very targeted about putting it in a trap, that is, dealing responsibly with it. We shall also consider what it has to do with the question of carcinogenicity of this matter in order to perhaps take further steps together with the Minister for Agriculture. I would just like to mention two figures, two data on the EU quality regulation implementing law. The first review of this law was on 14 November. April 2005, and I hope that we will do it today, on 14 April 2005. In October 2015, it was decided by the largest majority. I am glad that we have finally passed this law, and Thank you to all those who have contributed.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e8519	The next speaker is Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e8541	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciated spectators on the gallery and in front of the televisions! [[The speaker shall place a panel on which the three quality stamps for ‘traditional speciality guaranteed’, ‘protected designation of origin’ and ‘protected geographical indication’ are shown on the speaker’s desk.]] I can add something to the current discussion, because both Mr Jannach and Mr Pirklhuber, but especially President Eßl, mentioned this “protected geographical indication”: It is precisely how far the EU is with the quality seal label. That's probably why it's just a seal of goodness. The protected designations of origin do not require, as you, Mr Eßl, say that Styrian pumpkin seeds are also included in the Styrian nuclear oil. No, no, no, If you grind Chinese cores in the Styria, then the Styrian pumpkin kernel oil is "PGA" sign. If you claim something else, you may ask yourself on the market. The same applies to colleagues Jannach, who mentioned this with the Tyrolean bacon. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jannach.]] No, not just the handl; we have almost more bacon producers in Tyrol than pigs are kept there. We have 29 Tyrolean bacon producers, and I do not want to contaminate this industry, but to invite them to pick up the meat of Austrian pigs – but not to produce it with Czech wood, with Dutch pigs and in Tyrolean air Tyrolean bacon and then to protect it with “PGI”. These characters are simply not suitable. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] As Mr Pirklhuber correctly said: We need the Austrian quality seal law. Why have we been there since 2009, Mrs. Minister? - Please, take it in your hand! You know how important this is for public health, for the health of our citizens. And these three characters tell maximum where a product was processed, and have nothing at all to do with where the product comes from. I think that's very important. On the second point, I have again allowed myself to take this famous so-called Butterpackerl, which comes from the rainforest: PHASE. [[The speaker shall hold a package with the label ‘PHase’.]] It's packed like butter, it's “like butter”, it's cut like butter, and I guarantee you – I've tasted this chemical product with my wife on an Austrian farm yesterday, where milk and butter and cheese are produced; I'm saying chemical product, and I'm just coming up with it in the course of the subject of glyphosate –: That tastes excellent. The Austrian chemists are excellent. This tastes almost like butter, is better scrapable than butter, is an excellent substitute product for nature, an excellent substitute product for regional jobs and an excellent product for climate damage. It's rainforest. That means: We build 18 million hectares of palm oil plantations on our planet – 18 million hectares, and this area is expanded annually around the state area of Austria and Switzerland. That's why this second picture is from Kurt Langbein's book "Land Robbery", and that's the way this healthy vegetable oil, such a healthy substitute for animal products, is managed for animal fats. [[The speaker places a panel on the speaker's desk, where the photo of a spray tractor can be seen on a palm plantation]] This comes from the rainforest, and there massive fertilizers are sprayed and glycosate sprayed. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: That's it!]] That's why I have a very big request: Let us also be concerned at the glyphosat debate that we do not pour out the child with the bath as at the bee discussion. There are supermarkets in Austria that are committed to the bee convention 2020, but do not have a kilogram of Austrian honey on the shelf. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: There's something like that!]] That is why we need to be crazy, just like we are in the production of Puten. Due to increased requirements in Austria, we reduced our own supply of Puten Production in 2014 from 45 percent to 30 percent. In Germany the ten-fold stocks are allowed. With us in Austria, 28 000 pieces of Puten are considered a large business, which is referred to as an industry in Austria; in Germany one can hold the tenfold number – 280 000 pieces. The same approach applies to antibiotics: The eight-fold is allowed in Germany. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] I am not talking at all about the rules in China. I am not talking at all about the rules in international industrial stables. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we are bringing forward two motions for resolutions in connection with this debate today, also because we are constantly criticizing bureaucracy. The first application concerns the designation of origin of meat in processed foods. That's very important. Most of the products are processed, and most of the meat is processed, more and more people are eating out of the house; therefore we have made a request. [[Quoted print version removed]] The second request is therefore made because the debate on bureaucracy is currently being re-ignited by the tormented hosts. We know about the all-ergenic marking, the ban on smoking, the requirement to register, and now this rumour is again baffling around – and that is why I ask for your support, Mrs. Minister – regarding the nutritional information obligation. Motion for a resolution by Mr Steinbichler, colleagues, on no mandatory nutritional information obligation for hosts The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Government is invited to ensure that mandatory nutritional information for unpacked foods is excluded and remains.” We're asking for support.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e8663	Ladies and gentlemen, the motion for a resolution on no mandatory nutritional information obligation for host operators is sufficiently supported, properly implemented and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e8721	The first request was not submitted to me in writing. I would therefore ask you to submit this request in writing and then to make it properly and again. - Thank you. Mr Keck has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e8745	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Riemer said in his speech that he would like to thank Mr Weigerstorfer for having tabled this request for castration for cats so that we can talk here in plenary about animal welfare. Dear Josef Riemer, I give you the right, we have few animal welfare issues in this plenary, but the reason is that we have excellent animal welfare laws in Austria for which we are praised worldwide, and therefore we can have few speeches in the plenary because of these laws, which are so excellent. Ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to address the issue of castration duty for cats. The Federal Animal Protection Act was passed here in 2005 and, of course, there was also the requirement for castration for cats as the subject as well as many others. At the time, the law formulated the following: “Let a veterinarian castrate cats with regular access to the open place” shall be “as long as these animals are not used for controlled breeding or live in a farm”; “living in a farm” has been included in the law at the time, because we were aware that many wild cats float around near farms and there are many farmers who, of course, feed these cats, because they do not want them to starve, and they also do not have to impose a castration obligation on these farmers. In the meantime, however, we also know that many district captains have misinterpreted this legislation and that – even if scatter cat associations were not allowed to castrate these cats – has not been allowed. That is why the Minister of Health has already been aware of this problem for a very long time, has also spoken to these associations and is now sending out the novel of the 2nd. Animal husbandry regulation removed the ‘agricultural attitude’. It is therefore now possible to have these cats, which are present in the area of farms, castrated as well. The scatterers now have the opportunity to castrate these cats. Now no more district headquarters can say: I can't. With regard to financial problems with this castration obligation, one can say: Many countries already make money available so that these scatterers' associations can get the money and these cats can be castrated, because it also becomes aware to the countries that overpopulation of these cats is a problem. I think that with this novel and the exception of the “farmer’s attitude”, the Federal Minister of Agriculture has taken a step back to – I say – the world’s best animal welfare legislation we have in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e8794	Mr Höfinger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e8815	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! Ladies and gentlemen! In the meantime, there are some issues that have been addressed here by my colleagues and previous speakers – perhaps some information. As for Putenhold, dear Leo Steinbichler, I am with you: Yes, we are working intensively here to convince everyone in this House that we need a regulation, otherwise we will lose even more domestic supply. People get to the pute because they know it's healthy white meat, but the shelves are full – and that's 75 percent now – with foreign goods, because the native post-breeders with the conditions we have are no longer able to work cost-effectively, and therefore there is an urgent need for action in this regard. We have to tell people that we need a broad alliance. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Steinbichler.]] Second, what Mr Steinbichler mentioned: That's where you're wrong with your request for mandatory nutritional labelling in gastronomy establishments. This mandatory marking does not exist. It was a false report that this week was puzzled by the Gazettes, and you've been reading this false report. I think we should calm people down, not insecure them. There is no such requirement for labelling, so we cannot and do not need to give this request the consent. To the law and application now in force, the Quality Regulations and Enforcement Act: Yes, many domestic producers, farmers and producers have specialized in recent years and decades. They have taken on special forms of production, up to the highest level, the biological. This has not only made it possible to meet consumer and consumer demands, but has also done so out of inner conviction, because one wants to produce very close to and in nature. However, these methods of production have brought it into line with the greatest care and have to pay particular attention to production directly, to processing, packaging and, of course, to labelling and labelling. As a rule, these processes are of course accompanied by many requirements, i.e. record obligations and controls that are carried out, and every producer, producer and processor is subject to these controls, so that he can also clearly document how he works, and everyone stands for and represents these controls. But what has developed over the past few years – and I think that should also be part of the future discussion – is not only that we now have a better overview with this law, whether the control bodies are partially merged or coordinated, but also a corresponding wild growth in controls, both from public, official and from many private initiatives, consumer associations, quality associations, organisational associations up to trade – completely right, Mr Pirklhuber. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: The trade!]] It must also be done in our work so that these controls can also be mutual recognition in the future, so that the people who have to work outside can also find simplification. As I said, Everyone says yes to control, but we need to coordinate and merge them, because every control means a huge challenge for a company. Yes, it is often an enormous amount of time for the boss or the boss or all employees, it means high costs and downtimes, it often also means interrupted production and operating processes. As far as this is concerned, I think it is in the sense of all of us and our businesses that we can bring together even more coordinated and finally anchor mutual recognition. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e8861	Mr Hechtl. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e8882	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Appreciate High House! I would like to take a very brief look at the 1289 proposal, which calls for the complete ban on glycosate, and I believe we agree that healthy foods naturally require healthy cultivation. To the existing ban, I would like to say that an authorisation at European level with 31. ==References====External links== This authorisation has now been extended or the assessment postponed, because there is a WHO study that brings glycosate in combination with cancer excite. That is why the EU, also thanks to the initiative of our Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs – thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister, for your commitment – has announced that we are up to 31. In December 2016, the study will be assessed and the findings of this study, prepared by scientists, will be submitted for approval or non-approval of glyphosate. I would also like to address the truly remarkable commitment of the ÖBB and the ASFINAG in this area. For example, the ÖBB has acquired its own injection train, which sprays only more on those tracks of pesticides, where such uncrowds, if you can say so, grow. Furthermore, the sparing use of these products also reduced the pesticides of 70 percent. The ASFINAG is also very committed. I would like to refer to the text of the Law 777 of the Supplements, which implements or implements EU law, and in particular to protected products. With protected products, I also mean – in addition to the other two – the geographical indications. I myself, from my region from the district of Neunkirchen, can find that we have such a product: the Snowbergland Beef. The Snowbergland Beef is not only a culinary highlight, but also the name – through its protection – is a great promoter for the region and a culinary tourist magnet. That is why I should also like to ask the Minister of Agriculture to continue carrying out his responsibility to ensure that we have healthy food in the environment and to take all measures necessary to ensure that this is done. That is why the allocation to the Committee on Agriculture is also correct.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e8919	The next speaker was Mrs Diesner-Wais. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e8941	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! Mr Pirklhuber: With regard to the scatter cats, the farm families cannot be held responsible for all. We have holidays on the farm, this is very popular, and the of course also lives on the little kittens, and we should not keep that away from the children through a perfect castration. However, I would also like to address the EU Quality Regulation Enforcement Act, with regard on the one hand to official control of the bio-food products and, on the other hand, to the designations of origin and origin, and I would like to refer specifically to the protected geographical indications and designations of origin. These have growing importance in Austria for our farmers, but also for our processing farms, because we simply have to make consumers flexible so that they look at what is inside. Of course, the label should also be such that it can recognize it. It is very important that our consumers buy more Austrian quality products, so to speak, that patriotism is so to speak. But they should also know when they eat a carpentry, that this is from Austria. Other countries such as France or Italy, which have already strongly implemented origin and geographical indications, show it to us – France has 219 products and Italy 266 products. We in Austria do not have a few products with such names, because we do not have quality products, but because the way is very difficult, and there is now an administrative simplification. That is the first step in this direction. Efficient controls are needed, and the Committee will now be present in the Ministry of Health, which will ensure efficiency and, of course, information exchange. I think, in the interests of farmers and consumers, legal certainty is important that we have a functioning and transparent control system, which is a guarantee of trust and therefore also for the willingness of the consumer to buy Austrian products.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e8980	Mr Steinbichler. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e9001	Mr President. Minister! Perhaps in addition to the ongoing cat discussion, as I am quite a practitioner, Mrs Colleague, I would also like to say: I think we're talking about a managed, active farm with animal husbandry, which is well known to be 364 days a year, and that's where the cats are excellent, and they do some rat or mouse problems in a natural way and not in the sense of chemical and toxic groups. Mr Höfinger, there is no problem at all in accepting my first request. If this nutritional value is not planned anyway, then you only need confirmation, then it is even more difficult, then your group can agree to it. [[Abg. Hoefinger: I said it's not necessary!]] However, I should like to make the second request, which unfortunately has not been tabled: [[Quoted print version removed]] We're asking for support.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e9066	The application is sufficiently supported, properly submitted and under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e9134	Next speaker: Mr. Singer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e9155	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The information of consumers about the content, quality and origin of the products is important, must be of course and I believe it is the basis for consumer confidence. Trust and legal certainty also require control. A functioning and transparent control system strengthens this confidence. Legal certainty serves both producers and consumers, i.e. farmers as well as us as consumers. The decision-making of the debated bill creates legal framework for official control in the field of organic food for products with protected designations of origin and origin and for traditional spirits specialities; a check that I assume allows them to be practical and unbureaucratic. Of course, control must not be self-evident. The aim must be to strengthen consumer confidence in organic products and geographically protected products. Ladies and gentlemen, thanks to God, regional food in Austria is becoming increasingly important. This is good for consumers and consumers. Menten. This is also good for Austrian agriculture and for the processing plants. This makes protected geographical indications and designations of origin increasingly important. Of course, you have to be able to rely on this information. Ladies and gentlemen, this federal law makes an important contribution to this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e9197	The last speaker in this debate is Mrs Fichtinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e9219	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear youth at the gallery! Dear Seer in front of the screens! It has already been addressed several times in the last half hour of the draft EU quality regulation implementing law. There is the framework for official controls, and in the case of bio- and origin information, this framework reflects the commonness of controls. Summary: This is an adjustment to EU rules. Ladies and gentlemen! In Austria, we are lucky to be able to supply wonderful and healthy products. I have often mentioned the excellent and very worth mentioning activities that our farmers do every day; they produce wonderful products that we can enjoy. Food is more than just food supply. The interest in good and healthy nutrition is growing steadily, and the population is becoming increasingly sensitive. The consumer's and consumer's right to food safety and high quality, as well as information about the product, is something very important and is also right. Of course, there will always be problems and challenges, but only if you look at the last food safety report a little more clearly, you can see that a very low percentage, namely only 0.3 percent, of samples had to be classified as inappropriate. With a total of 28 000 samples, this is really very remarkable and an excellent value. We can be proud of our businesses. I should therefore like to appeal again at this point: Buy local, seasonal and regional products! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Vogl.]] That's how you strengthen our economy, our domestic farms, and above all you know exactly what you find on your plate! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e9265	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 5: Draft federal law establishing a federal law implementing Union legislation in the field of organic production, protected designations of origin and traditional specialities, the Health and Food Safety Act and the Brand protection law amended and the beef labelling law repealed, 811 of the supplements. Mr Hiezu, Deputies Ehmann, Eßl, Dipl.-Ing. Mr Pirklhuber, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment. I shall therefore first vote on the part of the amendment concerned and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted on. Mr Ehmann, Mr Eßl, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Pirklhuber, ladies and gentlemen have an amendment concerning Art. 1 § 5. Whoever gives his consent, I ask him for a positive sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This too is largely accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are also in third reading for this draft law, to give a sign of approval. – That too is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Steinbichler, fellow Members, on 'No mandatory nutritional information obligation for hosts'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Steinbichler, colleagues and colleagues, on 'the designation of origin of meat in processed foods'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 6: Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 812 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. I agree with the proposal for 1289/A(E) to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 7: Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 813 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. [[14:27:39]] 8. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment 1266/A(E) by Dr Dagmar Belakovich-Jenewein, colleagues on information requirements under the Tuberculosis Act (814d.B.) 9. Point Report by the Committee on Health on the motion for a resolution (Doc. 10. Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment 999/A(E) by Dr Eva Mückstein, Members of Parliament, on antibiotic resistance measures (816b) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report by the Health Committee on Amendment 1173/A(E) by Mrs Dagmar Belakovich-Jenewein, colleagues on the prohibition of the automatic sale of cannabis seeds (817 d.b.) 12. Point Report by the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 861/A(E) by Mr Mag. Gerald Loacker, ladies and gentlemen, on the possibility of combining health insurance in the reform of the Federal Republic of Germany (818 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e9457	We now come to points 8 to 12 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e9485	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It's a lot of different topics that we're discussing here. First of all, I would like to refer to the Tuberculosis Act. Unfortunately, God shows that TBC is increasing more and more in recent years, also in Austria. That is, we are increasingly confronted with cases, which are mainly medial. Many people are legitimately concerned that they simply get too little information or that they do not know exactly how to protect themselves or how to protect themselves. There were cases in four schools in Vienna in this spring, where TBC occurred, and many parents were very uncertain. Mrs Bundesminister, you then took the view that schools should not be mentioned. But there were constitutional judges who saw this differently. So there's a little bit of a different interpretation. I think it makes sense that people can also protect themselves, namely, to protect themselves. It's not just TBC. We have an ever-increasing increase in very severe diseases or diseases that are new in Austria. People are very uncertain about this and have no idea how to protect themselves. I think there would certainly be a duty of information, namely, to explain at the same time how to protect oneself and whether there is a danger to the population at all. I can honestly do nothing at all about the argument put forward by Mrs Schwentner, whom she referred to in the Committee, namely that it is only about stigmatizing sick people. I don't know in which world you live that you stigmatize sick people. This has nothing to do with it at all, but rather I want to prevent other people from getting infected. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwentner.]] It's just another access. While, above all, the Greens are constantly being tried to release everything here, the investigations for prostitutes should also be withdrawn, we see this somewhat different. I think it is very likely that the Austrian people will have a right to protect themselves and to be informed if there is a danger. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs. Federal Minister, you also said that TBC does not require a mouth protection, it does not make sense for police officers to protect themselves in the course of the migration flows in the Austrian railway stations. This may even be true, but it has, especially in the executive, already led to great uncertainty, which were very, very narrow and also very long time together with the people. At the same time, it was true that employees of the German army were very likely to wear a mouth protection. There's already a great uncertainty, and I don't think people should be violently banned. There can also be a little freedom to go to who wants to protect himself as well. I think that's right. What I can't understand is the argument of overwhelming information. Four schools were affected, and it was not even allowed to be called the schools. That's something I wasn't quite clear about. - That's what I'm talking about. I would also like to say something about Mr Loacker's request, namely the merger of social security institutions. This is a request that we have been on the agenda for many years. We used to have the unique feature, but now other political groups have come to believe that this would be a good thing. Only the two government parties are still resisting themselves with hands and feet. And that's something I can't explain to myself. So far, they have not even brought together a performance harmonisation at this nine regional health telephone. It is simply not understandable why different benefits depend on my place of work – not even the place of residence, because if I live in Vienna and work in Lower Austria, I am at the Niederösterreichisches Landeskrankenkasse, and vice versa. I do not think that makes any sense at all. There are certainly still potentials to be raised; this is also in the sense of equal treatment. That is why this request is a much more sensible one. I think it would now be time for the two government parties to think about it and not always have it in mind: Well, we need social security so that we can still provide our political pensioners in any Supervisory Board posts! - That's the wrong way. We could have saved these things for a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e9569	Next speaker: Mr Spindelberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e9590	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to address the two motions for resolutions that we tabled last week in the Committee on Health, Public Health and Consumer Protection, which deal with the hygiene standards in hospitals and the measures against antibiotic resistance. And because he's just sitting there Erwin Rasinger and I was important to point out with these requests, on the one hand, avoidable risks in health care and, on the other hand, to draw attention to those consequences that could lead to inappropriate treatment with antibiotics. [[in the direction of the Abg. Rasinger]] Why these applications have just been submitted is because, in Europe, the proportion of antibiotic-resistant bacteria in some countries has even increased massively in recent years, which is certainly due to different circumstances, because not only too frequent and false prescription or an insufficient dosage and intake duration, but also the intensive use of antibiotics in agriculture are problematic. In this whole subject, hospital hygiene and so-called hospital germs also play a very special role, as they often have resistances. Knowing that most antibiotic use takes place outside hospitals, antibiotic use in hospitals and hospitals is the main factor in the spread of multi-resistant bacteria. This is therefore a very big challenge for all in health care, as the situation of antibiotics to antibiotics and germart to germart is very different. The consumption of antibiotics in Austria is moderate in European comparison, but far too many drugs of this kind are prescribed. One of the reasons is that these are at the top of the patients and are also presented as so-called miracle agents. Unfortunately, when you go to the doctor, these drugs are prescribed too often. As I know from my own family, infections of the upper respiratory tract are one of the most common reasons for the regulation of an antibiotic in basic medical care, although these respiratory infections are only one quarter due to bacterial causes, which in turn means that in such cases the prescription is as unnecessary as in influenza, because I think it is important to prevent the flu, that is, to be vaccinated in advance. Therefore, in our request, we asked the Federal Minister to raise antibiotic consumption, particularly in hospitals, and, in future, to commission a more rational approach at a high quality level.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e9634	Mrs Mückstein. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e9655	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I saw this a little differently with the request for hospital germs and antibiotic control. The proposal has been submitted to my initiative, but I am of course very pleased that it has become a common request and that we are setting up a joint initiative to actually carry on on this important issue. [[Congratulations on the Greens, as well as on Mr Königsberger-Ludwig and Mr Rasinger.]] Hospital germs are a big and growing problem. The prevalence is at least 6 percent. Two million people claim hospital stays in Austria and 120,000 are affected. For 5 percent of those affected, this also causes a death-killing disease, where they eventually die. 20 percent to 30 percent of these infections could be prevented by appropriate measures. What we now want to do together is to improve the system of recording and reporting requirements and to further develop and pursue mandatory reporting. This is very important, on the one hand, for quality assurance for patients themselves, on the other hand, but also for transparency, so that appropriate measures can be taken at all. What would have been important to us would have been the establishment of uniform hygiene standards throughout the country, as there could be much to prevent with certain hygiene regulations. It may also be important to say that antibiotic use is primarily concerned with human medicine. But we also have the problem in agriculture and in animal husbandry. Mr. Rasinger will now tell me that it is different from that of science: it is prescribed for a third of antibiotics for non-important or non-comprehensible reasons, especially in general medicine. There really is a significant problem, which should also take appropriate action. In addition to the joint request, we would also like to see a focus on the training of doctors and also on training. Also, that the CRP rapid test – we have already talked about it in the Health Committee – which could facilitate differentiation between bacterial and infectious diseases, not paid by the health insurance companies or not paid everywhere is a major problem, because it would ultimately exclude mistreatment. Then I wanted to say something about reporting on tuberculosis cases. Mrs Belakovich, you are asking: In what world do we live that children are excluded or discriminated against? [[Abg. Darmann: There's no such thing as that!]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: That’s what I’ve been asking myself for a long time!]] Unfortunately, in the world of FPÖ, it is often so that children are excluded and discriminated against. I think we should work together to ensure that this doesn't happen. And it should be a natural ethical obligation not to make life more difficult by exclusion for children who suffer. [[Congratulation with greens and SPÖ.]] In connection with Mr Loacker's request, I would like to say: In principle, this idea is not bad – perhaps we continue to pursue it in a differentiated or appropriate way – but we will not agree now because we are pursuing a different concept, namely the aggregation of health insurance funds, so that a separate social security scheme is created for each sector: health insurance, accident insurance and pension insurance. In principle, we want to strengthen federal competences in order to resolve the problem of competence. And it is very important to us that not only funding, but also planning and care responsibilities come into hand to make health care much more efficient and to be able to benefit from great savings potential. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e9719	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Rasinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e9741	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! I would now like to spread over my daily life on the subject of antibiotics. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walser.]] Since I've heard what's going on here, I'd like to take you a little bit to the world of medicine or to the family doctor's. I doubt this American study from California, after which 5 percent die. I think that was a not very well-made study and it's calculated. You say, ladies and gentlemen, that one third of the prescriptions are wrong: I would like to read the study, I read a lot – Mrs Schittenhelm is a witness – but I did not find this literature that says one third is too much. But what I think is very correct is that 80 percent of respiratory infections – 80 percent – are viral. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: They meant that!]] The daily problem, however, is quite another. There are people who are sick for three or four days – patients who are sick for a day do not come, they do heal with home resources – and there we have to decide: Do I give him something or don't I give him anything? [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Yes, a placebo!]] And if you don't give a thing sometimes: Is there a risk of pneumonia – yes or no? That is a crucial question. I've seen a patient die in a day in a normal flu. She had only one cough, only one sniff, felt bad. One day later, she was dead – she was with her neighbor – because she had a very aggressive form. That is, the physician doesn't have as easy as sometimes the specialist hygienic, who can make practical blood samples and then seven days later says: That was him and the germ, and actually it was a virus. Also the famous CRP test is not 100% accurate. I bought it at my private cost, I make it regular, it's a certain hint. Even low leukocytes don't say anything: An elderly person can have low leukocytes and still be quite sick. That means it's not that easy. And the international guidelines are also relatively broad. We don't need training for training, we hear what we have to do every day. We don't need another guideline either. In Germany there are 1 258 guidelines, some are 100 pages long, depending on whether it has written the university clinic or another institution. - Please, that doesn't bring us any further! In reality, if you want to do so, it is medical sense, medical experience that helps us. Total: Every antibiotic we need less is okay, it's hard to be okay. But you have to do this with other things, such as with overlooked serious infections. Especially in the hospital area, it would be very important – because the antibiotic is not used for fun – since it would be crucial that there is not even an infection at all. The most important measure is often the washing of hands, and this sometimes does not happen. In other words, guidelines only help us on a conditional basis. One more thing: We are very good at consumption worldwide, and we could probably be even better. And I hear how difficult it is for the pharmaceutical industry to develop a new antibiotic, because the cost of this is in the range of € 1 billion. Now we are trying to give practical relief in the food and drug administration, but also in the EU, so that a development takes place at all, because the worst thing would be that you don't have any antibiotics at all, because none of them work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e9810	The next item is Mrs Ing. Dietrich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e9831	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate Mrs Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! We live in a time when mobility is a matter of course. Because of this mobility, we are confronted with diseases that we actually only know from literature. I wouldn't have thought there could be a Leprafall in Salzburg or that the Ruhr would appear here in Vienna. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Maurer.]] That was impossible for me to think, but the practice shows that there are cases of disease that have not yet existed. That is why we need to address this issue with more care and more responsibility. In this case at the Vienna schools where TBC has existed: If I had been there to be a mother or a child in that school, I would of course have expected me to be informed. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I think every mother expects her to be made aware of the potential for danger. This has nothing to do with stigmatization, which has to do with the sole responsibility of looking more closely at one's own child to see if everything is okay. This security awaits parents, and it must also give them policy. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Ladies and gentlemen! TBC is not a small thing, as the WHO says. A person dies every ten seconds, and a sick person has up to 15 persons in the year. So I think that only because of this situation – Germany also shows it, that's what the Robert Koch Institute says that the TBC cases explode – you have to say: Something is happening in this area. That is where we have to take responsibility; politics must do so. In this sense, of course, I support Mrs Belakovich's request, which is a reasonable request.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e9889	The Federal Minister for Health has made a statement on the matter. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e9911	, MAS: Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I actually did not want to speak, but I would like to make something clear about this tuberculosis issue. In this tuberculosis case in three different schools in Vienna, the public announcement of the schools was asked. What has been done is what you demand have: The parents who were in contact with the infected children were informed, environmental studies were conducted; all these things were done of course. What we didn't want is to make this public, for the simple, anyway often quoted reason: One school has come to a newspaper through indiscretion, responsible for a sports ground has therefore forbidden the football game, the football tournament there, as they were afraid that tuberculosis bacteria could somehow be scattered into the world. In the canteen one refused to give the children something to drink, for fear of infecting oneself. - We wanted to stop that. Of course, all those concerned have been examined according to the current state of science, are also examined and observed, i.e. the authority has complied with this obligation.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e9953	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e9974	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs Mückstein has already referred to the request and I would like to focus briefly on the federal merger of social security funds. The health system has a problem with expenditure, because revenue is happy. I would like to give you a brief account of the fact that this is already taking place within the main association. It has been a common practice for years that the main association and the cash registers increasingly shift health costs into the private sector. This works so that you don't pay any more precautions, that you work on a scarcity at the cashier's and that you wait so long for patients to be seriously ill in the reimbursement of medications. Previously, they don't get the expensive medications. Whoever can afford it then departs to the private market and pays it out of his own pocket. This involves a multi-class medicine – although often disputed – which corresponds to a policy of the previous century. And the head of the main association, this association from the last century, is now expected to become Secretary General of the ÖVP. – I think that's quite appropriate. Since the health insurance companies this year are heading towards a deficit of supposed € 130 million – at least that's how it is propagated – one now wants to save on the medicines and necessarily regulate them with a law. I find this particularly interesting when planning industry, legal price regulation also comes with ÖVP government participation and a black head of the association. This will save you from taking the steps that lead to a saving in your own structures. If you look at the level of the pharmaceutical rate in Austria – i.e. how much percentage of total expenditure in the health system for medicinal products – you can see that we are already significantly below the average in the European Union and in the OECD. So there would be no reason to save on medicines, but rather the health insurance companies themselves should save. However, one assumes that one damages the innovation site of Austria, that one damages the production site Austria, and in reality one also risks that the supply of medicines always brings scarcity somewhere, It's in the patient's case. If delivery bottlenecks occur, then a country like Austria, which is a cheaper demandr, will rather pull the shorter than one that is a good demandr. Of course, there is also the phenomenon of parallel exports in countries where drugs are paid more, so we save the patients with the Sanctus of the Federal Government. What could have been done would have been to step in with the countless health insurance companies and to eliminate parallel structures. We are not the only ones of the NEOS who support this. After all, two national leaders have encouraged themselves to put together the health insurance companies in Germany, namely Markus Wallner in Vorarlberg and Josef Pühringer in Oberösterreich. Pühringer left it when he saw who was going to meet. In Upper Austria, there is a super KFG – a health care facility for politicians and public servants – with great conditions. Of course, he could not do that to his politicians and his national officials that they would enter into a normal CCC logic. And there you have to look at how de-olidarization works here. There is less risk of disease in these hospitals, where public officials are insured, as there are no workers and no craftsmen inside, there is almost no unemployment risk there, as the contributions will always vomit. And because these risks do not exist, you can also offer higher benefits. On the other hand, in the local health phone, where people are insured who have a job risk, who are also occupationally ill, who simply have on average the more strenuous jobs, the entire risks are put in place. In reality, the CCC insurers must bear the privileges of the insured of these hospitals. As one can carry this as a Social Democratic Party, that is absolutely obscene to me. So you could have done much more and you could do much more: combine in a first step nationally and then put together all the carriers in a further step. Col. Mückstein said: We have a joint carrier in accident insurance. Why should this not be done in other insurance sectors? In the merger of the pension insurance institution of the workers and the employees, it was once tried to show the Court of Auditors how to make mistakes in how to better benefit the savings potential. We believe: Let us learn from the mistakes that have been made, let us continue to resolve this fragmentation and small parts! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e10036	The next item is Mr Karlsböck. Ladies and gentlemen, if your speech lasts longer than 3 p.m., I would have to interrupt you. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e10057	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It will not take more than 5 minutes. [[Abg. Rasinger: Hurry up!]] On the discussions – and this is not a funny topic – about infections that have now become more acute in the published opinion and also in the medical environment in relation to the refugee flows, I have a few comments to make. [[Abg. Rasinger: Faster! Hurry!]] Mrs Minister, we discussed this in the Committee, I will now discuss it again. ==References== September from your ministry published guidelines for staff – medical staff on the one hand and on the other for the refugee workers on the other. There you write that “the risk of infection arising from large refugee groups is no greater than that in the area of other large human collections or mass transport. ” So if you drive from Grinzing to Schottentor with tram line 38, it's about the same as when contacting refugee streams on the border. And then write on: “This means that there is no need for the wearing of protective masks by train attendants, police officers and auxiliary staff working in the care of refugees at the present time!” At the bottom, it says, “There is only a small one” – low, but yet! – “Infection hazard with tuberculosis” and the like. On the other hand – you probably know this now – the information sheet published by the Robert Koch Institute exactly for these target groups, in which it is clearly listed, where what diseases we do not know at all – we know them, of course, in the medical field, but until now they do not actually occur here – can now happen more and more, what is to be done in what form. It says inside whether diseases can be transmitted from man to man and much more. I believe, Madam Minister, that everything has obviously been done in the context of the Vienna election to calm down as much as possible. This has nothing to do with, I say again, the fact that it is really absurd, since a foreign-enemy discussion is to assume that it is deplorable or hetcerous – all of this has been blamed for us, because at the beginning we have also discussed it – but: It is simple and simple the reality, and I would ask you to give out of your ministry the right answers to these important questions. - That's a topic. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The second issue – and there is now really little time – is the matter with social insurance. We have already mentioned this today: In recent years, numerous applications have been made on this subject, requests, requests, press releases and the like. We have presented the solutions from our series to you more often. Of course, much more complex needs to be seen on this whole subject. It must be seen in the context of primary care centres, because in this area a group – namely the doctors involved in self-administration – is to be weakened, the practical physician is to be weakened; collective agreements are to be replaced by individual contracts. On the one hand, social partners or self-management – at least one partner – are weakened, and on the other hand, self-management and the social partners are set up. It can't be that there is a mentality in the local health telephone – not just the local health phone, but the decision-making bodies in social insurance – where one says it simply doesn't question how to put them together. Let's just say it this way to make it short, because there's no time to discuss this longer here: Today, workers who do good work in their field are sitting in the health insurance companies, but with such millions of heavy companies – i.e. millions-and-billion-heavy entrepreneurs – it actually needs a lot more top forces, top managers. And they don't find themselves there, unfortunately. It must not be a self - purpose, not a self - service shop. We liberals demand that the health insurance companies be grouped together at least in approaches – as we propose. You can do this in groups, but also in regional terms. I am simply trying and simply not to block this issue any longer, but rather to discuss these things more openly and transparently in the sense of health reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e10115	I am now interrupting the negotiations on points 8 to 12 of the agenda so that the urgent question requested can be dealt with at 3 p.m. in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[15:00:50]] Request for urgent procedure of Deputies Mag. Gerald Loacker, colleagues in the Federal Minister for Labour, Social Affairs and Consumer Protection concerning: End-of-life partnership destroys jobs (6758/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e10145	We come to the urgent debate on the written question 6758/J. As this has now been done to all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the author. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e10727	I give Mr Loacker as the first questioner for the reasons of the urgent question referred for a preliminary ruling pursuant to § 93 para. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e10749	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Appreciate audiences on the gallery and in front of the screens! Thank you, Minister Hundstorfer, for having time. I know. As a Member of Parliament, you do not collect any extra points if you provide you with such additional dates. Nevertheless, I think the issue is an important one and I see myself in it, because Mr Finanzminister Schelling has also said today in his budget speech that the important chunks are work, asylum and pensions. I would now like to focus on the issues of work and the labour market. The unemployment rate has been increasing steadily for 50 months, always compared to the previous year, and if we are allowed to believe the forecasts of the WIFO, this will continue until 2018. We are, of course, looking with a strong eye at what the government is doing in this context. A labour market summit has long been announced and has not been implemented. When it comes to what one could do, a double pass game takes place between the social partners on the one hand and the government on the other. One says it'll take care of the other. If we read in the budget report on page 13: “A bonus/malus system is to be introduced. At the same time, additional wage costs (FLAF contribution) are reduced. Together with the social partners, a concept will be drawn up for this purpose”, we are already so far away that we do not actually know who is doing what. What does the government do and what do the social partners do? As we have heard, this leads so far that CV negotiations are under way, because the negotiators are waiting for the government to do something during the sixth week of the holiday, or whether they should perhaps better manage it in a collective way. So, your lack of time in the Federal Government has consequences that – I believe – go far beyond what the players are aware of here. Which also becomes visible: The lack of reforms in the labour market are pressing on the budget, increasing the debt issue and the money problem, which primarily affects the Finance Ministers, but at the end of the day, all taxpayers. We know that unemployment benefits are increasing because unemployment is rising. Related to high unemployment, lower contribution and tax revenue are always lower. Not yet taken into account are the massive effects on the health of those affected by long-term unemployment, which is proven to be causing additional health costs. Here the government has manoeuvred itself into a vicious circle by non-decisive and non-formling. As we have heard today, expenditure in the UG is rising by €944 million. However, when you look closely, you can also see that active labour market policies have been reduced in the past months and in the future. Expenditure on active labour market policies per single unemployed person is falling because of the need for more money for passive benefits. That shows that we are going into a topic here, which means: We cannot be as active as we should, for example in training on the labour market. But if we already have a budget scarcity, I expect the government to see where the money is used efficiently and where not. All experts confirm that, for example, the blocked age part-time is nothing but a state-funded early retirement programme for farms. So I can expedite the labour force more quickly into retirement. What is the Community's role in financing early retirement programmes for social insurance companies? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Katzian.]] There's something you can save. My next topic is education. It touches my own electorate, but you can't always save on those who don't choose you. Education is certainly something that many from the elevated level of education take advantage of. But it's not meant for them! The money should flow where people are at risk of becoming unemployed and who are making preventive training so that the risk of unemployment can be reduced. But if we look at those who claim education, these are usually young people and people who already have a very good education. This means that the measure is anything but correct, because a lot of money flows into a channel where it cannot provide the benefits it should fund. In view of these difficulties in financing, I would like to take a brief look at what countermeasures the Federal Government is taking: a bonus malus system! . I don't know how you argue about this, but that's for me pay side-by-side costs. At the same time, there is a slight increase in the number of workers employed. Bonus-Malus means wage additional cost increase. If, as an alternative to black side, an increase in resolution is discussed, I say in this direction: These are also additional labour costs, because they pay for businesses that employ people! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Katzian.]] ==References== In January 2016, the collective reform is so often praised. However, this also increases the maximum contribution base out of the way. In turn, raising them means increasing the additional wage costs for those farms that have well-paid people. For example, these are farms where research is carried out, there are well-paid people at home. And what else does this government intend to do? – A part of the government, which you, Minister Hundstorfer, belong to, discusses the sixth week of vacation for those who have some 25 years of training and work. Well, the employer also has to take more money into his hands and get less of a week's performance. Now you can discuss: Is it wage costs, is it wage additional costs?, but at the end of the day, the employee is more expensive if I buy him for a year. What is further being held in the meeting and today also mentioned by Minister of Finance Schelling is this ominous “building offensive”, of which we have not yet seen anything. That's where I have to say: Although the housing offensive does not increase additional wage costs, it is this classic “We finance ourselves out of the mister” policy, and one could now know that I am not getting rid of a debt problem with even more debt. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] We've been looking at what to do. Peter Hajek asked 300 managers for us why they believe that no more employees are employed in the companies. The most common at 64 percent was the high additional wage costs, the second most frequent mention of the restrictive labour and social law. I know, Mr. Minister, that you see this differently, and unfortunately I can't follow your meeny from here. In addition to wage costs. The chambers and social insurances as, I would say, supply fortresses of SPÖ and ÖVP – where people can always be well accommodated and no longer accommodated – simply eat a lot of substance away from what businesses and the working people in Austria pay every month. Within ten years, the volume of chamber housing rose twice as fast as inflation. So these red-black devices feed on and put a little fat at the expense of the normal-death workers and the companies. Mr Schelling has said something nice about this today. He directed the chambers: Be part of the solution and not the problem! Yes, there are concrete proposals: You can halve the Chamber of Workers in several steps, then in 2020 we would be at the volume where we were in 2004 – I don't need to make any restriction on performance and I can do everything wonderful. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] The Chamber of Commerce 2 can be removed without replacement, which is 1 : 1 additional wage costs – and that the Chamber of Commerce has enough bacon on the belt, we know that too. Next point: accident insurance contributions. Getting Now You're saying: Yes, we have already reduced them by a tenth. However, the number of accident insurance contributions has also increased by more than 40 per cent over the same period, whereas the number of accidents at work naturally continues to decline, because the working world is becoming more and more secure. That is to say, the expenses incurred by this institution, AUVA, for its own purpose, namely for accident damage, are going back. But they swim so much in the money that we are now informed on TV and on posters that we can burn our hands on the hot stove. Thank you, AUVA, for this information! Obviously, someone has too much money, and in Sunday's speeches we hear the confession to reduce additional wage costs. Inefficiencies in the various health insurance companies; I told it at this point ten minutes ago: There is a passage in the government program where you say you want to make a study on efficiency improvements in insurance companies. Where is this study? Is she already commissioned? When do we see the results? - Misachieved! - Yeah, great! [[Abg. Katzian: Is in the government program, when? Stand in, when? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] Because you don't write a date to the program, you don't have to do it!Unknown term type: "%s".? I wouldn't make it so cheap as a government party: I don't have a date in it anyway, so I can do it on the Sankt-Nimmerleins day! Family compensation fund. This is the new recipe: Let us make a reduction in the additional cost of the family compensation fund! That's what I'm looking at, how you get it! He's in debt, and the debt is slower than you planned. What we really need to do would be to look at what the family compensation fund pays for. Does that belong to what he finances? – I am now taking only one example of foreign services provided by FLAF: school-free travel. If you go into detail, you'll be bad. In reality, funding for the free movement of students – I have now frightened the Minister of Agriculture – is a re-route of regional local transport. [[the sound of an object falling to the ground is to be heard]] So there's actually something else being promoted. [[Abg. Matznetter: Should the children go back to school for two hours?- Oh, my God!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] – Look, now you can always paint the devil on the wall and say that all children have to walk. The question is whether the money will be spent efficiently, and it will not be there. It does not always have to be financed on the basis of wage-on-paid costs. [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] I come to the next subject: Building of housing and housing support contributions. There, too, employers and employees pay a contribution every month. And where does the money land? – Some of it may be in residential construction, but only partly because there is no purpose. In addition, it is a redistribution from bottom to top. Especially in the federal states – less in Vienna – the “small” auxiliary workers with the support of housing finance to the middle class finance home construction, provided that the countries do not spend the money at all for anything completely different and let it sink somewhere in the canals. So much on the topic of additional labour costs. So there's a lot to do, and you don't have to do something about bonus malus. Labour law. You said that we still have such a liberal labour law in Austria. Let me show you something. [[The speaker holds up papers.]] – This is the Federal Law on Labour in Industry, Commerce and Trade from Switzerland. Pretty large printed, big letters. This is the Code of Labour Law in Austria. [[keeping a book in height]] And now you're saying, We have a slim labour law. I don't believe you! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] The flexibility of working time is for crying. If today working family fathers and mothers want to arrange their working time in such a way that they have time for the children to take off one afternoon for a school event and work the wrong time again and again, they get into conflict with the ten-hour limit and the eleven-hour night rest. For example, if you bring the children to bed and sit down and work again afterwards, You're a conflict with the eleven-hour night rest. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] If you have a boss who's so nice and says, Well, then you get free on Friday afternoon, do something with your child and come in on Saturday, he has to pay surcharges, although it is in the interest of both sides if you allow this flexibility. So, in this context, the regulations of labour law are completely beyond. They come from another time. The Working Time Act is from 1969, where one has worked much more manually. The whole thing is not coordinated with the current world of work. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Next, a bureaucratism: It is so complicated to pay infirmity for the employees that it is always a treatise for every health insurance employee with experience to find out how this could work and how it can be done now. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Katzian.]] And this bureaucracy is supposed to affect the businesses! The parent age – a black and blue product – is completely overwhelming. Every frame is missing. You can apply for 5 percent parental leave, but you can also apply for 95 percent parental leave, so work almost full time and buy me the cancellation protection. There's actually a grid where you say: Parenthood is from 50 percent to 80 percent employment – and not ridiculous mini-measures. Besides, it takes too long. Sampling time: In Germany you can arrange the trial time with one employee for three months, with us a month. There is therefore a lot to do with restrictive labour law. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] Let us come to the older workers. I know that you are personally concerned with older workers. But I don't think you're going where you're going with your bonus malus concept. What you don't see is: This is a market, it is supply, demand and price, and the older workers are in competition with the younger ones. In addition to the collective contracts, there are many other service-time claims, so that older employees come more expensive to a business than younger ones – and longer served expensive ones come than shorter served. If you come with a sixth week of vacation, as always you want to compensate, it will finally be so that a 50-year-old is entitled to six holiday weeks and a 30-year-old does not. As an employer, I can then consider: I'll take one that has six weeks off, or one that has five weeks off. [[Abg. Matznetter: Deputies Loacker is for six weeks vacation for everyone!]] – Yes, he did not say that, Mr Matznetter, you listened so well! We also have increased redundancies for older workers, but only for those who have a job, this is an advantage. If you have a job, it's an advantage, but if you don't have a job and look for one, then... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöginger and the SPÖ representatives.]] If you don't have a job and look for one, then as an employer you have more argument not to hire the employee because you say I don't want another job-guard in addition to me in the company. So you have to loosen the regulation for all those who are looking for a job at an older age so that you can remove this insider-outsider-theme. If you don't understand, Mr Wöginger, I'd like to give you a basic course in labour law. What we also need is a more flexible transition between working life and retirement. However, we do not need a part-time period when the farms are replaced even more and which we put on the sign “part-board” as a marketing gag. We need a real partial pension, where people use a part of the pension earlier – the part with discounts – and another part later – the part without discounts – as they need and how they can agree with their life planning. Older people are of course more often ill. There are symptoms, back pain or other sufferings. The probability of strokes, heart attack increases with progressive age. There are often diseases where one is longer, where one is away from work for weeks. We need a possibility that allows someone to get back into the work process flexibly – and not start from zero to one hundred. We call part-time workability, if someone who was sick for six or ten weeks does not have to come back from today to tomorrow, but can also be partially written in health, so that he returns to work for a few hours a week. Austria only knows an all-or-nothing solution: Either you're healthy or sick. There's nothing in between. But that's what's going on in real life. This may be seen differently as a trade unionist. You also have to see the other side, that of the staff, and ask yourself: What incentives does our system have? It is still that way – and even after the reform of the collective bargaining in January, it will be like this: If an average earner gets 100 € salary increase, then he remains about half of it. What is the benefit if I eat half of everything I get away from the Republic? It is even worse if you have part-time workers who think about whether to work more, whether they want to increase instead of 40 percent, 50 percent part-time to 70 percent, or 80 percent. There's no more work going on. You've built a system that doesn't honor performance! It is similar in the case of minimum security. There are also too few incentives to work. There is a small amount of free money, but if one goes to work more, if he gets more to earn, he has nothing of it, because then 1 : 1 is reduced to him the minimum security. The same applies to unemployment benefit and emergency aid: anything or nothing. Either you earn under the limit of lowness, then it's okay, or over it, then the whole performance is lost. – That’s anti-performance! The Federal Government has bred a culture in which those who work are made a dandelion. That's wrong, and you can get in there without spending billions. Mr Schellhorn will address the topic of refugees in the labour market. There is additional labour potential, and additional labour potential does not always have to be a burden on the labour market, namely if you do it properly and if you take the right steps early. [[Interlocutory calls by Mr Peter Wurm and Mr Belakovich-Jenewein]] The problem is that we don't use time. During the first months, it is too slow to determine which level of training someone has, what training there is, which we can recognize, which language skills can be taught before he has the right to work. We miss valuable time. [[New calls from Deputies Peter Wurm and Belakovich-Jenewein.]] The AMS pilot project will only start if the asylum procedure is completed. We call for effective access to the labour market for asylum seekers after six months, and we want to benefit from these first six months in order to recognise training, to bring language skills to the fore and to work on training these people in order to make them fit for the labour market. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: Where do you want to send them, Mr. Colleague?]] Everything you fail to do is revenge yourself over decades because you have later estranged these people from the labour market because they are dequalified and because they are more used to working life. We have failed to create an attractive labour market that attracts people who want to work. We have built obstacles for those who want to work here, and made Austria attractive to others. [[President Bures gives the bell sign.]] - I'll be right there. There is much to be done for this federal government, but just to continue playing the ball to the social partners, that will be too little.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e10961	To answer the question, Mr President, Mr Hundstorfer spoke. Mr Minister, your speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e10983	Madam President. Mr Rupprechter, thank you for your existence! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Cheerfulness with FPÖ and Greens.]] [[Abg. Pirklhuber: Nice to see you!]] Dear spectators at home! I thank you more politely, because in a coalition on a urgent request, it is common for someone to be here from the coalition partner. That is why I would like to thank Mr Rupprechter for his presence. I've done this the other way round. [[It was in favour of SPÖ and ÖVP, as well as Neos representatives.]] As it is about the topic of the labour market, I am also pleased that a delegation of students from the University of Economics Vienna is present; there too: welcome! [[General condolences.]] Before I devote myself to answering the fullness of 97 questions, allow me to make some introductory words, and this is also necessary to give this urgent request the necessary context. We are not experiencing a simple situation in Austria economically – that is not a question. We have a relatively high level of unemployment, although we – you have forgotten to mention this, Mr Loacker – have a record level of employment. We have the highest level of employment since the Republic. I think you should know that, too. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations of Deputies Neubauer and Peter Wurm.]] The problem we have – and that is what the economic researchers say – is not a labour market policy, but primarily a economic one. Why? . We are in the wake of the last economic crisis, and of course we have not been able to isolate ourselves from the breaking growth of the rest of the world, but we have succeeded in preventing mass unemployment, misery, suffering as in other European countries, for we have been opposed from the outset – with short work, tax cuts, investment, a number of qualification measures, for example for young people who are now EU-wide. Here we are the best practice example, and I only have to do a few stays abroad because of these programs in order to introduce them there. We have reduced the additional wage costs. You said this with the accident insurance contributions so nonchalant. It has been an additional wage reduction of €100 million. I don't think that's quite that side-by-side – 100 million euros are 100 million euros. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We have also allowed ourselves to reduce the costs of the insolvency payment fund – we also come to € 100 million, a total of € 200 million. I know, of course, we need to discuss how things go on, but 200 million euros are, I think, not so little. [[Abg. Peter Worm: 3 € per month!]] Many companies would be happy if, for example, they had such revenues. We have, for example, invested massively in the development of the social economy through the care fund and have created tens of thousands of new jobs in this area. The result was that we came through the first years almost no other country, recorded record employment and played a positive pioneering role in youth unemployment. It is also often described by some circles as if Austria's labour market was totally rigid. I believe, Mr Loacker, that you should know, precisely because of your professional qualifications, that we are one of the most dynamic labour markets, because each year more than 1.5 million employees are re-founded in that country. It's not a first arrest. This is a huge dynamic – 1.5 million new employees are being created each year for 3.6 million employees. But we also create a number of new offers for people: the partial pension – I will come back to it then –, part-time care, part-time education. We strive to ensure that people can reconcile everything – employment, family life, training. The partial pension is a typical example of your negative attitude. What is bad about older people, instead of retiring, continuing to work, going home at half the working time with three quarters of the wage and saving the public hand the pension? What's to be so bad about that? While the opposition here in the House criticises inactivity – I have already mentioned this – many European colleagues ask for the Council, among other things, because we are regarded as a model country for labour market policy. But we had to take a lot of money into our hands – that is not a question – and we are currently living in a time of record budgets of the AMS – not a minus, but a plus – but I will try to explain that to you. If you criticise in question 15 that additional AMS funds would also be used for socio-economic enterprises, then I say that it is clear that this will free up the overall budget for activating labour market policies and that more resources will be available at the same time. As I have already mentioned, we note the seventh year after the outbreak of the crisis. This is a very difficult situation – that is not a question at all – and measures are needed again, and we put it. With the tax reform, we strengthen domestic demand. Strong domestic consumption, for example, is the reason why the Federal Republic of Germany is currently experiencing very high growth, which is why we have decided to increase this purchasing power by means of the tax reform. We increase public investment. With broadband billions, we create new jobs in the short term, directly new, in the long term, we create the framework conditions for a modern economy. We will continue to invest in residential construction – whether it is fun or not – in the expansion of electricity networks, in promoting innovation. I don't have to tell you that my party is very much behind this. Mr Loacker! They are active in a liberal economic party; They are for deregulation, against state interference in the economy. But they obviously live in the belief that all of this is done by themselves and that, as if by magic, everything will be judged as long as the state stands out. Let's look at the reality: We currently have the lowest interest rate you can imagine. Our economic prospects are not rosy, but at least solid. If we stop feeling sick, we might not have any investment in the private sector. For example, the state must jump in, create a lack of growth, secure jobs, create new ones, strengthen purchasing power and develop a modern infrastructure. Yes, we have challenges – that's not a question – but I am in favour of meeting them with a positive basic attitude and solving them, instead of always trying together to raise the tomb of the pessimist to even get us inside. One last word on the social partners – which you want to weaken – is also permitted to me: Yes, I also wish that some things were more dynamic – that is not a question at all – but we have 97 percent of employees in a collective agreement through our social partners. To such a collective contract, two sides always say yes – on the one hand the employers and on the other hand the employees. Countries in which there are no KVs in this order shall introduce a minimum statutory wage. Is that your way out? Countries without social partnership are experiencing labour struggles, strikes, protests. Do you also want to see the situation we have experienced in part in France? Is that what you really want? – What you are proposing here is a weakening of the social partners and not a strengthening of them. Are missing investments, strikes, the need for a legal minimum wage your system – because that is the alternative to our system – to put the separation over the common? Of course, the separation is easier to find in some situations. In some situations the joint takes longer, but I believe and am still deeply convinced that it is always the right way. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I therefore come to the answer to the 97 questions. On questions 1 to 5: Yes, it will take place, and as soon as possible. Economic measures will play a major role. The measures shall be implemented as soon as possible. On the content there are currently ongoing, I would say, almost around the clock discussions. For me, not the dates, but the content is in the foreground. On questions 6 and 7: yes. On questions 8 and 9: no. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Question 10: These are measures for people who are particularly difficult in the labour market, whether they are disabled, remote from the labour market, low-qualified or even addictive. In 2014, 35 315 persons participated in an SÖB. In this year it was at least 17 435. After a year, about 20 percent of people find employment, which is a significant improvement in the situation before taking action. It should also be noted that this likelihood of integration should be compared to those of people who have similar problems, as they have partly regretted participants in SÖBs. I answered with a yes/no because the questions were so asked. I'm sorry, I didn't draw up the 97 questions. It was an employee of the club; I still admire him today. [[Cheerfulness with the NEOS.]] On the question 11: Integration aid: In the period from three to twelve months following the reference of an integration aid, about six out of ten participants are employed. If the effectiveness of the measure is to be assessed, what has already been said about the SÖBs is that: The integration rate should be compared with those with similar problems. Questions 12 to 14: This is also a question of integration aid. Yes, the corresponding directive has been adapted. The Court of Auditors has been taken seriously. Question 15: Funds for older workers: The expansion of the funds to promote the employment of older workers – now also for long-term unemployed people regardless of their age – is increased to € 250 million each by the current budget decision for 2016 and 2017. This corresponds to the focus of labour market policy on promoting job creation prior to performance. The selected design of the activation passive means increases the scope for other AMS measures. Not least this year, in the first nine months, nearly half a million jobseekers could be transferred to the world of work through the AMS. On the question 16: ‘Advanced age – partial pension’ means: For 2016, expenditure on blocked part-time pension models and for the partial pension provided for in § 27 and so on are planned to total around € 59.5 million. On the question 17: It is also about part-time age. The question is answered by itself from the title “extensive age – partial pension”. With the partial pension, which works according to the logic of the extended part-time age, the Federal Government has taken another step to keep older workers in the profession longer. Instead of going to Corridor Board, employment conditions are promoted up to the regular retirement age. On the question 18: It also revolves around this complex. It is not possible to work part-time in all establishments or areas of operation, for example in the production sector. In addition, through the replacement force – I think you have somehow forgotten – the employment effectiveness in block-time is partly higher than in the continuous variant. On question 19: The “part-pension – extended age-part-time” is not only cost-neutral, but also a short-term and long-term savings for the public sector. Pension insurance saves itself the payouts of the corridor board and all SV carriers, but of course the Ministry of Finance also receives longer contributions and taxes. This also raises questions 67 to 70: With the construction of the sub-pension, the possibility of a smoother transition to the old-age pension was created, which means benefits both for workers and for the public sector. There is therefore no reason to water or re-set up this good model. Questions 20 to 23: Education: With the term "refficacy", you seem to assume that it is a closely defined support instrument for a specific target group. This is not the case with the educational choice, which is a labour law-enforced option for all employees who fulfil the access requirements. However, the reforms in recent years have been aimed at increasing the attractiveness of all, including under-represented groups, through easier access – on the one hand, shorter pre-employment periods and more flexible uses. With part-time education, an additional possibility has been created that offers higher financial incentives for people with lower incomes – unfortunately, these are also very often people with lower formal qualifications. Older people tend to be less involved in longer-term intensive forms of education and training, as we know from all relevant surveys. Reforms in education, easier access, more flexible use and part-time education meet the needs of this group. Various evaluations of the educational course show that in recent years the instrument has been less used in some sectors as well as in SMEs, because longer absences have been considered problematic due to the work processes. The reforms in the educational care system meet the needs of SMEs and should also lead to increased use in previously under-represented sectors, but do not deny that it ultimately depends on the consent of the employer side. On questions 24 and 25: In view of the tight budgetary resources, a support was useful to assess the effectiveness of the instrument. The expert scholarship is only a small part of the measures that we put into practice in the context of labour market policy. The other measures to promote qualification, such as “New Skills”, “Women in Crafts and Technology”, “Qualification Support for Workers”, “Implacement Foundation”, continue to be upright, and we spend €685 million on qualification within the AMS, i.e. 60 percent of the total labour market budget. On questions 26 to 42 and 47: Additional labour costs: I fully support the relief of the labour factor and, of course, I am at your disposal for further cost reductions. I've already mentioned some of the things we've done. I would like to remind you that, of course, we have also put on the table various alternative financing models of our social systems, including relief of the factor work. That is why I have been very strongly criticized by you. However, we will continue to work together on further wage reductions. Finally, I should like to point out that I am simply not responsible for many of your questions in this block, especially the FLAF budget. On questions 43 to 46: Increases in the efficiency of social security schemes: Of course, the legal SV carriers are working continuously and very successfully to further improve efficiency through coordination and cooperation – for example through the target control system, the cost-damaging path for the rehabilitation of health insurance companies and in the field of IT. I should like to remind you once again that the annual administrative costs of all SV carriers are 2 per cent. On average, private insurances have four to five times higher costs. I see at the interfaces of cooperation in the area of rehabilitation an important point of approach for a scientific study on efficiency enhancement. This is about the insured. The available services should reach as best as possible those they need. That is why I have commissioned the preparation of such a study and it will be available in the foreseeable future. However, I would like to stress once again that the SV performs very cost-effectively many important tasks and I fully support the funding of the SV through contributions. Performance cuts are no longer in the program. Questions 48 to 50: Negotiations on the labour law package: As I have said, we are in a permanent negotiation process, and that is why I cannot call you the last day of negotiations or announce a failure. On questions 51 and 52: Sixth week of holiday [[Intrusion of the Abg. Darmann]] An easier accessibility of the sixth week of vacation, as agreed in the government programme, is a matter of fairness: we have discussed it very much, I think, very much. It is about that because of the enormously high flexibility in the labour market for hundreds of thousands of workers, we have no chance that they will ever come to a sixth week. As a result, it is necessary to continue to discuss models in which it is about calculating all pre-service periods and so on, if we also feel committed to the principle – and I believe we all do so together – that people can be longer in the acquisition process. By the way: You, Mr Loacker, are working in an industry where the sixth week is not a foreign word but is lived by thousands of employees in this sector, as they rarely change. You should also tell people that you enjoy this very well. In addition, the package provided for in the government programme is a very balanced one, which also brings financial benefits to the economy. But I don't want and can't present an exact presentation today. On questions 53 and 54: Increase maximum work limits: The increase in the maximum daily working time is only about those issues as they stand in the government programme, such as travel times. When these changes come, I refer to the answer to questions 48 to 50. On questions 55 to 59: Other flexibilisation measures in working time law are currently not planned, because I believe that our working time law is already very flexible. It only bothers you that the targeted creation of flexibility lies in the hands of the collective contractual partners. However, our current law on working time ensures that flexibility can also be tailored to the sectors and people working in different sectors, and I do not want to deviate from this principle. Only this example you brought here! Since I invite you, we go together to the company Zumtobel, we go to the company Blum, we go to the company Grass, but not to the first floor, but to the parterre. And then we'll discuss this with the band workers there, whether they might want to come a little bit on Saturday afternoon. You know very well, we have several realities in the world of work and not just the small reality of engineering employees. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] This is the reality that you have described here, I do not want to dispute at all. Of course, there are also such working conditions, but the mass of Austrian workers is inside a relatively strict corset, because we want to have a hospital played 24 hours, we want to go shopping at Billa, at the savings, at Mercury 66 hours and, and, and. All of this has to be taken into account here too! Questions 60 to 63: Working time Directive in Europe: From December 2014 to March 2015, a public consultation on the revision of the Working Time Directive was held by the EU Commission. The Commission has not yet taken any steps to continue this initiative. Nothing can therefore be said about any impact on Austrian law. On question 64: Study on the principle of seniority: The study on the impact of the principle of seniority was prepared by the Institute for Higher Studies on the basis of the best available data. You are welcome to join the researchers of the IHS. These are willing to enter into the dialogue with you as well. The fact is: There, where we have enormously high seniorities in collective agreements, we have the highest level of employment in older people. Where we have the lowest seniorities in collective agreements, we have the lowest level of employment. In other words, it cannot be the cost of wages. Questions 65 and 66: Rehabilitation protection Older: The protection of termination for over 50 years of age is not a debate. On questions 71 to 74: Reintegration by long-term diseases: This is, among other things, not my responsibility, but that of the Minister for Health. If I'm properly informed, I think you're busy with a savings bank somewhere. For example, the Austrian savings bank sector has made such an integration management on a voluntary basis, and I think your savings bank is also part of this sector. And there you see: Something's going on if you want to. But this is not a partial illness, but it is an integration management according to six, eight or twelve-week health status agreed upon under the operating agreement. Questions 75 to 81: Bonus/Malus: I become a member of the government program and feel bound up with what I – and this is not a hectic – was personally negotiated with the Minister of Finance, who was still in other positions at the time. There are not only target values for the actual retirement age, but also for older workers. It is not a question of the reforms being effective, but we have a lot to do with the 60-65-year-olds in particular, and also with the women who are just before 60, we still have a lot to do in terms of employment rates. However, you also know that there is currently no agreement on the bonus/malus system and, consequently, it is not a topic at present. On question 82: AMS resources for refugees: The AMS funding budget can only be adopted by the National Council after the decision of the Federal Finance Act. No valid statements are possible before that. On questions 83 and 84: AMS funding for asylum seekers: no. There is also no part to be planned. On questions 85 and 86: Competence check: About two thirds of all asylum-seekers and grant-aids are in Vienna, so it is important to take steps here. Other AMS Landesorganisations have similar models in the program. Based on the experience in Vienna, the model is used in a similar or modified form. Experience is now being evaluated. In question 87: Access to the labour market for asylum seekers: I repeat what I said on Thursday last week in committee: I am committed to a pan-European solution. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: So we have more!]] Before further reflections on easing access to the labour market, which I am currently excluding, it is important that the EU implements a distribution key for aslywer users in order to avoid further distortions or minimise existing distortions. Those countries that are already carrying out their humanitarian tasks would otherwise be subject to additional burdens. It is also crucial to implement asylum procedures as soon as possible in order to have rapid clarity about any further delay and thus also about integration measures. On questions 88 and 89: The Austrian legal situation in this respect is quite EU-wide. Asylum seekers already have access to the labour market after three months, but the Austrian decree from 2004 limits this accordingly and this decree remains the same as it is. No infringement proceedings have currently been initiated against Austria concerning the EU Directive. However, 19 Member States, including Austria, have not yet fully notified the implementation of the Commission Directive and have received a reminder letter from the Commission. The BMASK has not taken any additional steps in the absence of implementation needs and therefore has not been notified. However, there are still delays in implementation in some federal states and so on. Question 90: Teaching for asylum seekers: The Minister of Economic Affairs is responsible for the BAG. Companies themselves have wished for legal certainty in dealing with this issue, and we have done so accordingly. On questions 91 and 92: Year of integration: The labour market reality is a key element of the year of integration, as is the Civil Service Act and the Voluntary Law. It is designed for those who cannot yet be transferred to the First Labour Market. Accompanied by voluntary activity, there are training measures, social exchange, and we assume that both are very supportive of integration. The entire process will be evaluated from the beginning. Questions 93 to 96: Red and white red card: In view of the current developments in the labour market, I am concerned about the best possible integration of the existing and uncontrollable labour market potential, which is why an additional opening up is not a priority for me at present. In question 97: Basic supply: I ask you – and this is not a cheap thing I do here, but it is the area of responsibility of the BMI and the federal states – to address these issues to these institutions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e11262	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes, with each club having a total speaking time of 25 minutes. Mr Schellhorn, you are the first to speak. I'll set you 8 minutes of speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e11289	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister on the Government Bank! It is right what you have said, namely that we have a high level of employment in a way. However, Mr Minister, it would be more true if you said that this highest employment is due to a large part of part-time employment. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] It is equally true that you are talking about a dynamic in the labour market, but it would be more correct to say that this dynamic is responsible for the 1.5 million construction and tourism, because there are a lot of withdrawals and registrations. And it would be even more correct if you said that businessmen are not responsible for the high numbers of unemployed, but for the government. That would be the springing point, and so we could enter into a discussion. [[Abg. New builder: We never hear that!]] We have a dramatic development, which also predicts that the unemployment rate will continue to rise by 2018. We have also combined this dramatic development with the refugee theme, which will also come, and we have a homemade dramatic development. It is not only the Minister of Finance who said that today: A day without reforms is a lost day. A former finance minister, Mr Androsch, says in the “Small Newspaper”, this government is driving the wall and driving into the disaster. These are worrying signs. These are worrying sentences. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: That's what we've been saying for a long time!]] –Mr. Worm, let me talk, I'm afraid of your eyes, they jump otherwise, that's all not so beautiful. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: But I don't have glasses yet!]] – No, not yet, but it will become quite hectic. The flexibility of working time is a reform that has never been properly addressed. They were probably at Zumtobel too, but I don't think they've been in the past. We were there, and these companies, from big to small, say we have tips to cover and we can't cover these tips because we have too short throughput periods. I should like to quote today's Minister of Finance: We must examine new laws and regulations in a mandatory manner on their impact in practice and see whether the effort is in relation at all. That also means that the social partners are apparently no longer talking to the enterprises, but only to the Gulaschkanone after the CV negotiations. Otherwise, it can't be that you so decide on reality beyond laws. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] When I see that in these reformless 10 500 days the ÖVP is in the government! The Minister of Finance has said today that every reformless day is a lost day. 10 500 non-reform days without applying the framework conditions to the service company, for example in the so-called wage dumping law. I'm taking out tourism now. Each of you has been at a wedding or a wedding lately. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: neither!]] [[Abg. New builder: We were campaigning!]] Last November, when this wedding is not blown off at midnight, the host cannot lock up the next day, at most he sets new forces. He can't afford that! As a result, it reduces its sales, it increases its size down. These are the laws that we pass by reality. That's the law we're talking about! I can talk to the social partners who send you from left to right, from right to left, and everyone says: That's where you need to talk to the other guy. And that's the standstill, this catastrophe we're talking about, that Hannes Androsch is talking about. This government is on the wall, and the sufferers are more than 400 000 unemployed. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Now let me add one more point, and it is so to speak still in practice: The asylum seekers who are here in this country. What happens today or hasn't happened to this day? In addition to the labour market summit, which has not yet taken place, there was also no agreement where the additional money for the labour market comes from. There wasn't one yet! What's going on? – In Germany: German course starting from the first day and the first interview at the Agency for Labour takes place in the mother tongue of the asylum seekers, so that he can also say what he can learn from what he has learned. How would you like to see with the average 10 minutes that an AMS employee has for an initial interview with a Syrian asylum seekers, what he can do? He can't even articulate it. What do we do for it? We don't spend any more money on it, nor will the employees at the AMS be increased. But we must face up to this drama, otherwise we will not only have a refugee theme, but also an integration topic. [[Abg. Darmann: How strange is that?]] Going there, you'll be happy to clap your hands, you'll give me applause, as you also want this money to be raised. The Minister of Finance says that this is not a new or fresh money. [[Federal Minister Hundstorfer: Oh yes!]] If it is, I want to know where it comes from. Perhaps you can now answer five more questions. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Any questions!]] When will the labour market summit be held several times? The second question is: How many refugees will come to Austria next year, and what are the figures for the first and second halfs of the year? The third question: How long will the average asylum procedures last in 2016? How high, do you appreciate, will the recognition rate be? Fifth, you open a bottle At present, active labour market policies are estimated at €70 million. Is this budget going to be enough? The sixth question for me: The €60 million for active labour market policy is now actually coming from the Social or Financial Ministry, and how much is the proportion of the current AMS budget for older workers to come? If you have answered these questions, and if we can also make a constructive contribution in this respect, we will do so. But a sixth week of vacation, a bonus/malus system for older employees, perhaps the fantasies of a 30-hour week have not yet created new jobs and have not yet led entrepreneurs to create more jobs. [[Abg. Arbitrator: Yes!]] [[Abg. Arbitrator: Yes!]] And we should be clear about that. [[Abg. Arbitrator: This is retro!]] This is also a question of working time flexibility, and I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e11498	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e11563	Next speaker: Mr Muchitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e11584	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Thank you, Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I believe that social policy, labour market policy, is always an issue that makes emotions very high – and that we also consider very different in our political parties and so discuss in the relevant committees. I have now looked at and also read these 16 pages of the NEOS colleagues, and the fact is that there are not only 97 questions that have been answered but also criticisms, changes are being demanded, but positive things are also mentioned where efforts are being made to get even better. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Congratulations!]] And if this issue of labour market, labour market policy is so important to NEOS, I must already ask you the question: Where's your clubman? [[Abg. Scherak: He's been beaten to health! So that's...!]] Is the topic so important to your clubman that he's not there on a urgent request you've put as NEOS? This is also a question that we may still receive an answer from you today. On the content, on the labour market summit: My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, negotiating in one election year accordingly hot iron is of course not easy, but fact is: Over the summer months, there have been a lot of constructive discussions, and the fact is that I prefer a labour market summit, where solutions are already on the table, than that only announcements are made there. The fact is: These solutions will come. I'm just grabbing out two points: A sixth week holiday and more flexible working hours combined with sliptime. This is, of course, explosive for those who say: A sixth week holiday is important to us. This is of course also explosive for those who say: We want more flexible working hours. There is a need for a consensus between the social partners in order to really create this spatform, i.e. between a more flexible design of working hours to ensure the economic location of Austria in conjunction with more employment and a sixth holiday week for more leisure for workers. Everyone here in the hall knows: Historical development has progressed enormously. That is – the Federal Minister has done it – 1.5 million people a year go into a job, mostly changing the job. As it used to be: from teaching to pension in a farm, that is history. There's no more. [[Abg. Peter Worm: Unfortunately!]] – And that is why it is more than just to say that this sixth week of vacation is to be demanded for all people who are in employment for more than 25 years and who are to be granted due times. The topic of labour market and jobs: We all know that it is not only now, but in the future it will become even stronger. We will have more people in this country looking for work than there are jobs. What are we doing now? Do we make a reduction in working time? Do we fairly divide the existing work among ourselves? Are we making more leisure options in collective contracts? Do we make a sixth holiday week? Or let's talk about it: What do we do with those people who do not find work that they have a just basic income from the state? – The fact is: These are topics that we want to discuss and also need to be discussed. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Honey.]] In your urgent request, you have not just mentioned the tax reform positively. More net of gross, that's exactly what we need. Work has to pay for it again. To make work more worthwhile again, we need more in the wallet, and that is why it is an important step towards it, and we do not let that happen. It would happen if we were also to sell this much stronger and more positive as government parties. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] In the request you have also criticized the social partners. The main task of the social partners is wage policy. And especially the social partners, trade unions and employers' associations know best what an industry in wage policy, in collective contract policy is reasonable to demand, which is justified. I clearly distance myself from all the political competitors who are trying to weaken the Chamber of Labour, and who are trying to demand wage formation at the legal level. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Wage policy must not be formed by a party policy. I know countries where wage policy is made by the legislator. There has been no wage increase in these countries for years. In other words, it must not depend on a form of government whether there is a wage increase for workers or not. Finally, refugees on the labour market: I think the position is clear. We face huge challenges over the next few months, in which we all agree. But with regard to the proposal for earlier or faster access of asylum seekers to the labour market at a time when 391,000 people are working – 72 000 of them under 29 years and 92 000 over 50 years of age or older –: It cannot be said that unemployment will continue to rise and, at the same time, the labour market will continue. The Federal Minister has carried out: There is limited access for asylum seekers, which should remain the same. [[Abg. That's where I'm excited!]] In my opinion, it is rather the question: What do we do with those entitled to asylum? – Currently it is 19 000, and it will become 35 000 next year. Why do we not discuss much stronger how we bring these 19 000 to 35 000 people into the labour market more quickly, so that they become contributors to our system from beneficiaries? . We know that we have 33,770 open jobs, and we are unable to occupy these jobs with the current workforce potential. In my view, this would be a priority to deal with and resolve. Finally, I take a very short look at the three motions for resolutions – one has already been tabled. I was allowed to discuss this issue with Mr Schellhorn last Friday – in front of the running camera. This request to provide for effective access to the labour market with substitutes for asylum seekers six months after asylum applications will not be accepted because we have a clear position to take very important steps towards asylum seekers in the labour market or in the job. Secondly, this call for the creation of an annual working-time model in tourism: There are existing models that work. What tourism needs is a model, a job, which thus also guarantees that these hours, which are included in seasonal operations, will be dismantled even after these seasons and will not be celebrated under the season – and then the AMS will have to jump in again. This model must be considered by the social partners, such as the building workers' holiday and handling fund. I think it is possible to find a solution at the social partners' level. In order to reduce or delete chamber envelopes on the last request, a colleague will comment on this matter: Dear friends! If more than a million people change their jobs each year, we have to check, control, demand wages and salaries there. The Chamber of Workers will be even more demanding in the future and even more important than it was in 1920. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e11684	The next item is the speech by Mr Haubner. I'll set you seven minutes of speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e11705	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister Hundstorfer! I don't want to beautify anything here. The unemployment rate is rising, that is a fact. But it was also mentioned: We have a record of employment. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger.]] – This is also a fact. And even though very many part-time jobs are involved: Part-time is also an employment, and there are many who want this employment. But we have - and this has already been mentioned - rising unemployment rates. We don't necessarily have the growth we're imagining. We have a wave of refugees that we have to cope with. But, as the Minister has already said today, we can only solve this together. We face very big challenges here. We all know – even if one or another does not want to hear it – if we want to create jobs: Jobs only create the entrepreneurs and not us, the politicians. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: But that would be necessary!]] – We can only create the conditions for this. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: You do the opposite!]] – The conclusion of this is therefore quite clear: We need to support and relieve entrepreneurs. We must help all of us together, because then we can also create new jobs and secure the jobs we now have. [[Abg. Darmann: Who's in the government? A lot of talk, that's too little!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I was in Berlin last week, and there the former German Minister of Labour Wolfgang Clement spoke. He also said: We need to support entrepreneurs. [[Abg. Darmann: The beautiful words are spoken enough!]] – We need economic impulses, because we can only talk about social and environmental policies, because without economy it will not work. In Austria – and we all agree – we still have a lot of good and innovative companies in the various industries: Industry, commerce, transport, tourism, trade, IT. These medium-sized enterprises secure two thirds of the jobs in Austria. These are 2 million jobs secured by these companies, and they are thus the largest employer. This is a very crucial point. The second point we also need to support is the creation of a company. We have 20 000 business start-ups, a little more, per year, and there are new jobs again – two to three per enterprise on average. So you can say: SMEs create seven out of ten jobs. Here, we have to do something here. The Minister made it: It's also about mood. But there I am already with Mr Schellhorn, because the mood is not good. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Do you talk whirly?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] – I think that is the case, because, of course, the situation is very, very difficult. I'm one who's gone a lot: 40 percent of SMEs do not write profits, this also clearly shows the statistics. With regard to unit labour costs – which are always relevant to how we represent ourselves in the competition – we have also developed dramatically higher than Germany. We have strong consequences in the area of bureaucracy. I feel that is quite critical, so that we decide too much here too much. In other words, we have to get back there, and this is what we are about to put in place the appropriate initiatives. That is why I say quite clearly here – from our side and from the economy, that is, from my part – that we simply need to stop the burden on entrepreneurs, because we have enough burdens. I also have to say quite clearly to the left side here – I can only say it from my side – a [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neubauer]] No to the sixth week of vacation, no to the notions of an overtime euro and a reduction in working time. This is simply no longer voteable for the companies, and therefore also the clear appeal: Please don't overwhelm us and don't overwhelm the businesses! [[Abg. Peter Wurm: The economy is already overwhelmed!]] We need something quite different – and that has already been said today by Mr Schelling, Minister of Finance: We need a mood of departure. We need measures to ensure that Austria returns to the top, where we were between 2002 and 2010, among the top 3 in Europe. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: This is an election speech!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We now also have some measures in this package: A research premium increase from 10 percent to 12 percent. This is very important for innovative companies, and these innovative companies that invest in research also cooperate very much with small and medium-sized enterprises. I think that's a real signal. And even if the housing initiative has been criticised today: Ten thousand new dwellings are an impetus for the construction industry and, of course, also for the protection of jobs. We have already discussed it today, Minister: We've got it. All of you support the fact that you will receive an increase in benefits for older workers to € 250 million in 2016 and 2017. This is an important and correct measure; but, I think, we now need – and this has been mentioned more often today – a reduction in the additional wage costs for entrepreneurs. Minister of Finance Schelling has already said it today: It introduces €1.3 billion. This relieves businessmen and creates jobs, would be desirable as soon as possible. I would also like to ask you to support us so that we can get it in line. If I take the economic pressure, for example, in the business and craft sector – in which we have a problem at the moment, of course, because in the first half of the year sales and orders are down by 2.9 percent – we need impulses here; we had a good action with the craftsman bonus. It would certainly be useful to continue it and to make the appropriate resources available to it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] – So I think that this is a good measure, especially for industry, and that it is also a very important factor for the Austrian economy. I would like to say one more thing about the Chamber of Commerce in the direction of Mr Loacker, as Mr Muchich has referred to the Chamber of Labour. I can only say: The Chamber of Commerce itself has imposed a lot of reforms and over the past 15 years, namely since 2000, has reduced contributions by 30 percent. This means a cost saving of € 150 million per year for members. We had a trade-organisation reform to do this, with the specialized organisations coming together. So the business representatives act like in the company, we are always reforming ourselves. And in terms of that, I think that the Chamber of Commerce organization is also on a good path. Summa summarum: We can only deal with the challenge together, and that is why I think that we should also deal with the major tasks together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e11868	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Kassinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e11892	Madam President. High house! Yes, what Mr Haubner has just said is quite right in many parts. We ask ourselves why this is not implemented and why it does not happen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is true that the economy creates jobs. It is also true that it is up to the government to create the appropriate framework conditions. And I am only briefly entering into an extract of the framework conditions which I have now come to mind in the last hour and which have been created by the current government. On the framework conditions: First of all, we have too high an additional wage, all of us agree. As they are reduced, we do not agree on this – for example, the Chamber of Commerce would be an opportunity to reduce something – so much too high additional wage costs. We have – and this has already been mentioned today, I even believe by the government parties – an overwhelming bureaucracy. I do not want to try the expression red tape now. The Energy Efficiency Act has already been addressed today, the Anti-Lohn dumping Act as well. You really have to ask yourself: What is the effect, what do you want to achieve with it and what does it accomplish? – I would recommend talking to interested entrepreneurs and tax advisors once, which is what the Anti-Lohn dumping Act holds. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Shopf.]] We have a labour market that is inflexible in international competition, in particular with regard to working time regulations. We have a mood that – triggered by the government, which you also belong to – businessmen push flat-rate into the corner of fraud, because nothing else is counter-financing for collective reform, the fight against fraud with €1.9 billion. We have appropriate financial officials, who are also equipped with a basic mood by this government, a basic setting, namely that the financial officials say: Yes, these are frauds, we have to get something – and so the tests take place. To this end, I would recommend that once – for example, by the Chamber of Economic Trustees – reports on how such tests are carried out or conducted. Fifth fact: We have 55 plus a disastrous employment rate in the group, if we compare this about with model countries like Sweden, which have about 70 percent, we have 40 percent. Sixth fact: We have – and that must be legitimate – a labour market service, where we once heard closely: What is the meaning, the benefits, the objective of appropriate measures? – The whole should then be placed in relation to the cost of these measures in accordance with the economic principle. - It's not happening. We have – this is what I have already mentioned in the morning, and this is a very dangerous thing – a far too little innovation dynamics that ultimately reduces competitiveness, which can ultimately be felt in the labour market insofar as unemployment will rise. We have framework conditions – and I would also recommend having discussions with entrepreneurs – about which the entrepreneurs complain. Because the legislation is so springy and unpredictable, long-term planning is no longer possible. Ninth point: We have an apprenticeship training, in which we believe that it is obvious that there are too few incentives for occupational training; then we have over-company apprenticeships that work very badly. Tenthly – and there we must not lie to ourselves, but simply take note of the facts and take appropriate measures based on them –: It is true that the economy is creating jobs, as before, more and more. But it is a fact that the creation of jobs is overcompensated by moving into the labour market, by moving from Eastern Europe and, of course, now also with the considerable migration and refugee movements, to an extent over the next few years, which, and no one can say, cannot be projected. Of course, it is a relatively weak announcement for a manager to say: That's not affordable now, let's see how many that will be. [[Federal Minister Hundstorfer: I never said that!]] - I don't have any specific figures. [[Federal Minister Hundstorfer: If you had been a member of the Committee, you would have known!]] – Well, then I’ll be able to get it from colleagues who were in the Committee. This poses a huge risk, namely that, under these conditions, the economy will probably no longer be able to create additional jobs, i.e. more jobs each year. That is to say, we have two effects that will lead to this – and that is where my forecast is covered by the WIFO – that in 2018 – and that says WIFO – we will have twice as many unemployed as in the previous year of the crisis. – These are the facts. I would like to focus briefly on numbers. Mr Muchich said this very sympathetically: People who go from abroad to the labour market or come to Austria – I agree – we must make the recipient the contributor. That is a very high goal, a good goal. However, when we look at the numbers: Unfortunately, these speak a different language, a very clear language! We have put a question to the Minister for Social Affairs concerning the increase in unemployment over the last four years, separated by national and foreign nationals. Unfortunately, the rate of increase among foreigners is not only slightly higher, but quite, very much higher. From 2010 to 2014, we expected an increase of 15 percent for the domestics, and unfortunately one of 62 percent for foreigners. So that's not a few percent more, but that's the fourfold. We then also asked about emergency aid: persons affected by unemployment in Austria, persons affected within a year in Vienna. There are, of course, considerable regional differences. By far the worst part of the city of Vienna is cut off, at the relatively best Vorarlberg. It is therefore necessary to take note of these figures and also to take appropriate measures. I conclude by stating that we are likely to wait a long time for these measures, because it does not even bring together the government to hold a labour market summit. There you can now discuss how it has been done by colleague Muchich: We will not do the labour market summit until we have results. – Please, what has you prevented from achieving results since May or April? You have just described the coalition of the standstill, probably inadvertently: We do not make a labour market summit because we do not agree on the results, so it makes no sense. However, it would be very, very urgent and immediate to stop or should have been taking place long ago. But this is obviously the systemic problem in which the two government parties are located. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e11961	Mrs Mag. Treasure is reported next word. I'll set you up for 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e11983	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Almost 400 000 unemployed, who are also rising in the coming years, and almost half of these unemployed have a maximum compulsory schooling: That is, the only lever we have to bring these people back to the labour market permanently is additional education, additional qualification – and yes, that costs! This costs, it is perfectly clear, but it is a unique investment that is retiring, retiring for the individual and also retiring for all of us, for the public hand. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we want €500 million more for active labour market policy. 500 million more: I know, yes, that's a burden on the budget, but it's a one-time investment that's necessary and that's profitable. There are numerous studies – please look at them, talk to economists! – who all say that these investments will be profitable after three years! After three years, it comes in when we manage to bring these people back to work. Please consider this aspect of more money for labour market policy even in the next few weeks in our budget negotiations! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear, of course, that this investment is necessary, above all, for the following reason: because you have been suffocating in education policy for years! That's the main reason. 20 percent of school leavers cannot read, count, and write properly. What do you think these people have in the labour market?- Oh, my God! - None! They have no, except they receive additional qualifications, additional education through labour market policy. In other words, labour market policy literally pays all that is unfortunately neglected by the lack of education reform. To this end, we Greens say clearly: The best labour market policy is a proper education policy, and we need it absolutely urgently! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] So: More than €500 million to give the unemployed a decent perspective in order to allow them jobs from which they can actually live, and to save all of us sustainable costs at the end of the day. Now to the NEOS request: On the one hand, I thank you for the impulse, on the other hand, the approach is already very detailed and technical, a little technological. I am not sure whether the debate as a whole will bring us so much further. In other words, Mr Schellhorn's opinion was quite different, and I would like to sum up what I heard out: Mr Schellhorn has criticised the fact that at a birthday party, which may happen from time to time, waiter is not allowed to work longer than until midnight, even if he would like to, unless he does not come back the next day in the morning. That means, They want to come back the next morning – longer than until midnight – longer maximum working hours, withdrawal of rest periods. They want this combined with an annual working time model, i.e. practically, no overtime supplements for this work, and the waiter is probably employed for this type of work with its 1,500 € gross – 1 100, 1 200 € net. I do not know whether we can only find this request to be useful, so we certainly reject it. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] We say clearly: Flexibility, definitely. We Greens are a modern party that understands the needs of individuals and the economy for flexibility. But flexibilization cannot mean: constantly more strains and more work and less and less money. It can't be for us! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I think we all need to see together that we agree on the broad lines that we set common goals and then really work together on something going on. 400 000 unemployed and more, they simply need more than our hack in the details and as a blockade policy. I am entirely of the opinion of the opposition parties: We need this labour market summit! It is not that, as honourable Member Muchitsch defines it, with presentation of some of the smallest consensus that you may achieve at some point in time, but a labour market meeting that is relevant to democracy, where various positions, expert opinions can be presented and discussed. I have also tried to launch an initiative in this direction, and have designed a catalogue of issues which I have sent to various main actors of the social partners, to the Minister for Economic Affairs, the Minister for Social Affairs and Economics. The feedback was positive: Everyone is longing for something to go on at last! And above all: We agree more or less on where to go. There is consensus on where the problems lie. Yes, of course, the detail interests are still different, but the big lines would actually be clear. It is about this, ladies and gentlemen: We need to develop a location and economic policy that takes more account of modern areas – technology, the ultimate nature of natural resources, climate policy and, above all, globalisation. Second point: Education reform. We all wait longingly for the 17th. November, but today has already heard that there is actually no money for it. That's where we need to go stronger. Third point: Labour market policy remains a requirement. Fourth point: Distribution of work. Mr Muchich said that working time is no longer going on. Employment growth only arises because more and more part-time relationships – of which one cannot live – arise. How do we deal with this? – We need solutions here! For us Green is clear: Work must be distributed differently! Ladies and gentlemen, these are the great tasks ahead of us. We Greens are very committed and willing to cooperate here. I ask you: Go seriously to the problems, do not block and hope that we will create more together than anyone blocked behind their position! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e12092	The next item is Mrs Dietrich's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e12113	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! More and more discussed, always mentioned: Policy does not create jobs, although we sometimes do here as if we were those who create jobs. Job creation creates the economy, and only what the economy develops can the social state spend again! That is why, ladies and gentlemen, If we want to create jobs, we must start with the economy. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The economy is the locomotive, and this locomotive attracts the social state. A sixth week of vacation in this economically tense phase is unthinkable for us, as is the overtime euro. We cannot discuss this at the present stage. The labour market is stagnating. [[Abg. Kickl: “Stagnered” is good!]] We will return to 400,000 unemployed, and the situation will worsen again by 2018. Ladies and gentlemen, the responsibility for this is, in part, already here in this House. When I listen to Professor Aeginger, I take his statements quite clearly: The economic crisis is home-made. The government has not fulfilled its homework. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you have been elected so that people have work so that they have a future and that they have prospects. Becoming You finally meet this challenge and create appropriate framework conditions! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] Throughout the spectrum, from industry to SMEs to agriculture, all sectors are complaining of the current situation. Let's take a look at the industry! Head of the Chamber of Commerce of Leitl says the business location has been sent down. Nor will he simply say that, but he says that because we lose in the international rankings from year to year because we do not pick up, but go down. Dr. Eder of the Voest even speaks of de-industrialization, and he says we simply have too high labour costs and too high energy costs. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Honey.]] – I say at this point: It is not about labour costs, not about what the individual gets – that is absolutely all right, the workers should get more, more net of gross – but the eaty state must finally take back and reduce the additional wage costs. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Abg. Kickl: The Chamber of Workers...!]] Last: Probably one of the biggest economic captains, Frank Stronach, says: Austria is going to the wall! If we keep doing this, we'll go to the wall. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] – There is nothing to laugh at! Before this man's performance in life, I think everyone should have respect. 150,000 jobs to create, that is something you can only draw the hat! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] For SMEs too, the mood is more than bad. Many don't want to invest anymore, many no longer have a successor. This goes to agriculture, where 2 500 farms die every year, because the framework conditions in this country are simply not business-friendly. What's the government doing? What recipes have you offered? – 500 new taxpayers! 100 taxpayers who are already in retirement have been brought back to criminalise entrepreneurs, knock them on their fingers, and even tell every young person: Never become an entrepreneur in your life! Become an official or an employee, go to the ÖAAB, go to the union, go to some institution! [[Call the FPÖ: That's how you become a minister!]] Just do not voluntarily go into self-employment, for then you will be punished and criminalized from the front to the back. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Instead of a simple control system that everyone really understands, a jungle is built in which no one knows each other. I believe that you no longer recognize yourself, for example in the field of registers, where everything has been made so diletantic from the beginning that even the President of the Chamber of Commerce of Styria says: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter]] Constitutional complaint, that's not all right what's been done there! He speaks of a register lottery because the entrepreneurs are forced to be already on 1. January 2016 to have registers, although one does not yet know what measures need to be taken in the area of manipulation security. That means they have to invest now, then don't know if they've bought the right thing, and probably have to invest in something new again or re-adjust it. I'll tell you: That's negligent! This is absolutely the wrong way to deal with the citizens, the people whose voices and their trust you have got. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Matznetter.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we demand simple framework conditions, business-friendly conditions, because only when there are entrepreneurs can we guarantee that jobs will be created. We demand a simple tax system, a one-stop shop, so that you can finally start light companies, can become more self-employed. We call for a reduction in additional labour costs, which is also worthy of the name reduction and is not just a cosmetic measure. We also call for the involvement of practitioners who are finally searching through this bureaucratic effort. It can't be that everyone in this house is talking about red tape, but every businessman you talk to is saying – and you know that when you're doing business yourself – you only have beatings between your legs. Ladies and gentlemen, finally involve practitioners and not just desk perpetrators! Let us see that we are working together in this area to create something for entrepreneurs! As it has been mentioned several times in this House to involve refugees in the work process: Let us look at the example of Sweden! That's what we should learn from. After ten years, 48 percent of immigrants are still not working. After fifteen years, 40 percent are still not in the work process, and 58 percent of total social assistance goes to immigrants. I think Austria needs not only solidarity with the refugees – we need solidarity with the Austrians!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e12266	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Alm. I'll set you six minutes of speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e12287	Madam President. Mr. Minister! High house! Yes, Austria has no income problem but a problem of expenditure. We've heard that many times today. I remember that well, it will also be repeated again and again – and my colleagues probably too – and remind you of it. At this point I would also like to express my astonishment at the fact that, in 2015, my colleague and colleague, Treasure, are still quoting the Lump of Labour Fallacy. – The work is not a cake that can be divided into any small pieces! I would ask you to read this in due course. [[Abg. Honey: What kind of approach do you have...?]] When we talk about employment, we have to answer a question in particular: Why do companies not create jobs? – The answer to this question is: Because these companies may not yet be established because companies may not see a need or because they cannot afford it. Gerald Loacker has already quoted a survey by Peter Hajek, according to which 64 percent of entrepreneurs surveyed said that the wage costs and especially the additional wage costs are too high. [[Abg. Honey:... the costs are too high!]] [[Further calls.]] [[Call the ÖVP:Please Contenance!]] It is interesting in this survey that this is said by entrepreneurs, and to this extent. The answer most frequently mentioned was 14 percent – compared to 64 percent – so you can hold something on to this statement. If there is talk of wage costs and additional wage costs – especially wage costs – the net wages are not, of course, meant; they do not want to attack anyone. It is also not the gross wages – quite the contrary, we all want more net of gross – but it is precisely this higher part of the additional wage costs, which must first be made transparent. There are also requests from us, towards a transparent wage mark, where you will find up to 14 entries with which the work is so to speak. Of course, it is already true that benefits from these additional wage costs are also contested, but that does not happen 1 : 1. There are services that are funded, there are services that may not be necessary at all – we have heard the example in connection with FLAF – and there are also possible retranspositions that can be carried out within these services. We have also heard that there are savings potential. You yourself, Minister Hundstorfer, mentioned the downturn from last year – even twice – by 0.1 percentage points, i.e. twice 0.1 percent. This now sounds very, very high with an amount of €200 million, but this is a discharge of €30 per employee and employee per year. With this €30 you will not be able to create a new job. In other words, the cost reduction must be a very nice piece more substantial. The Minister of Finance has even spoken of 1.3 billion per year from 2017, i.e. we must wait for a year and a half and a half, and he has not said how long this discharge is planned. So an amount of €1.3 billion is very nice, but if that only takes place in a year, then it will still not be enough. In our tax reform concept, we provide for a discharge of approximately €4 billion. This would be about 4 percentage points for additional labour costs. This is already something that goes towards substance and can really create jobs. But we are good things that the Minister of Finance can stick to his course here. What can be done in the short term to reduce additional labour costs? – As mentioned above, one can remove the working chamber housing. We presented ourselves with a measure of 0.05 percentage points per year. Why do we want to do this? – Because there has been an increase of 40 percent in the last decade, and it is only fair to go back there and correct these high values a little down. Point 2: In the 1970s, it was introduced as a provisorium. We have already discussed the word "provisorium" in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. In this context, I would like to quote a certain Wolfgang Schüssel: ‘The Chamber 2 has been introduced to ensure that at least one third – at first even more – is used for the Chamber’s processing special action, which runs for ten years until the end of 1989. So it was, so it was promised.” So: 1989 is already overdue. That is to say, the proposal would have to be suspended accordingly. We would like to make the following request to the need to reduce these two components of the additional wage costs: [[Quoted print version removed]] What else can you do? – It is possible to remove housing from the cost of pay and to finance it through taxes. For example – but this is state matter – the plenary session here does not necessarily concern – the metro tax can be removed in Vienna. Your colleague, Paul Tesarek, meant that the cost was only €2. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] I brought 2 €. I give them to you, Mr Minister, you can give them to Mr Tesarek. [[The speaker hands over a 2-€ coin to Federal Minister Hundstorfer.]] – We would have explained this with the subway tax. In any case, what will not work is to promote jobs. It's not sustainable. The funding rate is already moving in the top European field. It makes no sense to send money in the circle, to withdraw the people or the companies and then to return in the form of promotions. Funding can only mean a ban on revenue for those who want to employ. Mr Haubner said we need a start. – I mean, we need a little more than a break-up mood, we need to reduce additional labour costs, because this will actually stimulate employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e12387	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e12451	Next speaker: Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e12473	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Estimated Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I mean, work is – and this is also what we can now have for almost two hours – a very high asset for every individual of us, because it creates self-esteem because it allows for participation, because it is simply important for a self-determined life. Work is – and it is clear – but also a very high value for society, for the economy, for social peace – so I would express it. And that we are discussing it, I think, as Mrs. Schatz also said, is really good because the world of work has changed. You have to take note of that. That, of course, the access to jobs, or how you get out of unemployment, are different, that is clear. If I read through the request of NEOS, I already notice in it the spirit of NEOS. It is a very neoliberal approach, which can be found in this proposal: This is primarily about flexibilization. Mr Loacker, flexibilisation can be quite positive, but one always has to estimate the risk that the service provider is in a stronger position than the employee. I mean, this is true in a changed world of work. What is also important to mention: You want to weaken the representations of interest according to your request. We have another access. Social democracy has a different access to society, it wants cohesion in society. We want a solidarity society, we want a society in which one also bears responsibility to the other, in which one can, above all, dispel the risks of life in which one can actually secure against it. In my opinion, there is a difference between a neoliberal party and a social-democratic party, and that is a good thing, because democracy also lives from the discussion. Finally, we all share the objective of creating jobs on the one hand and preventing or avoiding unemployment on the other. Mr Schatz has raised a number of points, and I have also been thinking about what can contribute to this. Of course, it is important to increase economic power – no question at all! You have to increase growth, whatever that may be, but I think that growth will end sometime, which is why other mechanisms also need to be. It would also be appropriate to consider the total reduction of working time and the distribution of work. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] When you think of Industry 4.0, you know that more and more people are being replaced by machines. And that's why I'm convinced: We will have to talk about value added tax, about machine taxes, if we, ladies and gentlemen, want the social state, as we know it – and as it, I think, many of us appreciate – to be preserved. From my point of view, this is a very, very important discussion to be held in the next few years. I am also of your opinion, Mrs Schatz, that there is a need to invest in education. Education is the guarantee for a self-determined life, education allows opportunities, education enables participation in society, including young people who enter the labour market. These are points on which we need to work together. From the boys I now come to the people who are at the end of their working life. I mean, you have to keep people healthy for as long as possible in the work process. I've already said a few times from this point of view that I don't think people 40, 45 or 50 years of age think more about the pension. I don't think so! I am sure that everyone will be able to make their contribution for as long as possible – but it must also be possible. That's why you have to keep people healthy for as long as possible in the work process. I would like to go into the following: Mrs Dietrich said that there had been no measures to this end. I don't want to leave that in the room. In fact, Federal Minister Hundstorfer has actually taken many measures in recent years to keep people longer in the work process and, on the other hand, to get people who have fallen out of the work process back on their way and integrate them in the best possible way. I only remember fit2work or the I-Pension New – where, of course, there are difficulties, but it is still an approach not to send people into retirement, but to get back to the labour market. I would remind you of the 50+ employment initiative, of the combined wage and of the socio-economic enterprises in the employment initiatives. And, Mr. Gerald Loacker, I would like to stress very specifically: Socio-economic enterprises are not a bad means of labour market policy! Socio-economic enterprises see people as a whole. And people who have been in unemployment for a long time have, you know, multiple problems. There are often social problems, there are often problems such as debt, and all of this is worked together with those concerned and best eradicated so that they can get back into the first labour market. And, Mr Loacker: In socio-economic enterprises, people earn money because of their work. They have incomes that also contribute to bringing social security contributions back into the system. That is why I think this is a very good measure, and I very much welcome the fact that Rudolf Hundstorfer invested a lot of money in this measure. I have much to say, unfortunately, I do not have 20 minutes at my disposal, as Mr Loacker had. I would just like to add one more point, because it is important to me to say this too: You, Mr Loacker, are also responsible for people with disabilities in your club, and I am sorry – I am really sorry! – that 97 questions and 16 pages in total have not been said a single word about people with disabilities in relation to the labour market, because we can also have a positive balance. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] There is € 175 million for measures for people with disabilities. We have a very special responsibility for this, Mrs Belakovich-Jenewein. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Yes!]] I'm sure Rudolf Hunttorfer has all people in good hands. Together with him, we will be able to continue working in a good direction in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e12539	Next speaker: Mr Wöginger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e12561	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! On the one hand, I am grateful for the fact that the issue of labour market is being addressed here today in this debate on a urgent question because it is the issue that moves people the most – in addition to the current topic of refugees, of course. According to all surveys, it is always the most important topic for the population: the question of job, of the labour market and of location development. But I think it is necessary to put some data back into the right light. It has already been said that employment is increasing. Unfortunately, however, unemployment is also rising. This is a phenomenon that we have been experiencing for months now. The part-time jobs were also addressed here. I would just like to add one sentence: Part-time work is per se nothing bad, and not every part-time worker must also live 100 percent of the income. There are still family associations, Mrs. Schatz, there are still men and women who divide their income into a family life together. This works there and there – perhaps not in your world, but in our world there is still that! – Yes, no question, but there is not just black or white. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: But less and less!]] The length of stay in unemployment is 122 days – with an increasing trend. We should actually think that people are now in unemployment over a longer period of time. How does this situation come about? – The reasons for this are an increase in women’s employment rate – that is to say positive – the increase of workers from our neighbouring countries – from the Eastern European countries, but above all from Germany, still and especially in the area of gastronomy and tourism – and, finally, too low economic growth, which is 0.7 percent, and thus we will not be able to get under control of the situation on the labour market. I am glad that the research institutes are predicting a growth of about 1.5 percent for next year. [[Abg. New builder: Every year you say that!]] - I know. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ.]] I said yes, I hope so. But, Mr Neubauer, once three institutes agree on what is also rare, at least the principle of hope is given that the forecast will also occur. I am an optimist and not a pessimist because we live in a good country where there are many hard-working people, both in the business sector and in the employment sector. That is why I am going to be confident and optimistic in the next year. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] What have we done, ladies and gentlemen? – Of course, it is legitimate and the right of the opposition to criticise that too little is being done, but it is already true that we have done our job – and I would like to mention a few points – in the sense of a better employment situation: The tax reform has already been mentioned in the context of the budget speech. Ladies and gentlemen, 5 billion € in redundancies return to people means increase in purchasing power, means additional investment in the field of the economy and also means an increase in jobs. This is also an investment programme for the next few years, ladies and gentlemen. We're giving people back more money so that they'll have more left. It is a discharge that is necessary, and we should not speak badly. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Pendl.]] We have decided on a package for older workers. For next and next year we will make up to €250 million available. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] – Yes, for over 50 year olds who are unemployed for more than six months. Why? – I would like to say this briefly: Because it is harder for these people to be integrated into the labour market again. It's about personal fates. We know many of these people from our speeches. Only today have I received an e-mail from a 58-year-old job-seeker, who has been genuinely trying for months to get a job from which he can also live. Ladies and gentlemen, this is extremely difficult in the current situation. We must therefore pay our attention to these people, and we must do everything we can to bring about improvements by means of framework conditions. It is simply our task as a politician not to leave these people alone. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: What did you write back?]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have done a lot in this area. Financial resources have also been made available for this purpose. And we also implemented the partial pension. Mr Loacker, I do not understand why you are talking about this. It costs us nothing in addition, it is set up at the age-part-time and adapts to the reality of life of the people. At the age of 62 you are no longer as fit as at 30; that is in the nature of man. And if we are to make sure that we can get out of work more slowly, but also create an incentive for people to stay in working life longer, I have to say: I do not understand quite openly and honestly where the problem lies. We support this measure, and I also thank you for having been implemented! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] What is going on, ladies and gentlemen? – In preparation we have a housing package to revive the economy and create new jobs, and we also want to link up a package for the labour market. Finally, a word on the social partners: Of course, in this situation it is not easy to get on a single path. We're the seventh year in the crisis. We're not out there; that's a mistake. And one thing I would like to say here as a black employee representative: We must not overwhelm each other, neither from one side nor from the other – I believe that there can be reasonable solutions. We need to look at the overall situation. There will be a lot more to talk about, but there is still a desire on both sides to put in place additional measures for the labour market. This also includes the reduction of additional wage costs and the efficient use of the funds in the AMS. It is true that every year about one million people turn to the AMS, and I would like to thank all the employees in the AMS posts for the highest performance that will be provided there. – And here we have the framework conditions for the AMS posts to have the basis for being able to communicate people as well. To ensure this is our task, which we have to do here! Ladies and gentlemen, I too am for the continuation of the craftsman bonus and for the implementation of the current account. The Minister has also mentioned the study, which is now practically complete, in which we can read that this will now be implemented at the post office in Germany for around 200 000 employees. I think we should also consider such measures. Overall, you can say: We're on a good way. We live in a good country. Although there are challenges, especially in the area of the labour market, they are satisfactory when we work together on solutions.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e12687	Mrs Dr Belakovich-Jenewein spoke next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e12708	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mrs. Federal Minister! Yes, my previous speaker has seen everything through the pink glasses: It's all great, it's all easy, it's all right! – That is not the way it is, Mr Wöginger. [[Abg. Wöginger: You didn't listen to me!]] – Oh, yes, it was, I listened to you! You might have thought you were wearing a pink glasses today, not the Federal Minister. The Federal Minister has said that we are not in a simple situation, but we have record employment, while there is misery, suffering and mass unemployment in other EU countries. Yes, Minister of State, you may be right: We have record employment. However, how many people are in part-time, in precarious circumstances, you have not said that. So it's not as easy as you tell it here. And on your statement, we have suffering, misery and mass unemployment in rest of Europe: Yes, there are many countries, for example Greece, where there is a lot of suffering and misery, but we have to say, honestly, that all this suffering and misery ultimately also owe the EU. I wonder, because Mr. Tsipras is the best friend of Chancellor Faymann: Why was such a package decided to make people there impoverish? But, in return, believing that all this labour force can now be brought to the labour market in Austria is a trickery, Mr. Minister, to whom you repeatedly suffer. And that's how it continues. For example: There are particularly burdened industries, and one of them is the construction industry. Your response, Mr. Federal Minister, shows that since 2008, 13 000 Austrian workers have become unemployed in the construction industry. In the same period, however, 9 000 EU citizens – mainly from the Eastern European countries – have been recruited in this sector in Austria. Please, there's something going wrong! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Whenever we demand the sectoral closure of the labour market, we hear from you stereotype, which is not possible by EU law. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] I have already told you in committee that this excuse is no longer valid. It is no longer possible to say that it is not possible under EU law, because this federal government breaks EU law every day, twenty thousand times a day! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If it were really important to you, you'd think about it. The second problem we now face is a home-made problem. We have mass immigration to Austria. There are 85 000 people who will immigrate here in Austria this year, 85 000 people! And you want to integrate them into the labour market. It all sounds pretty sweet and nice. And, Mr Federal Minister, you have made it very drastic in committee. You said that I am not the vacuum cleaner on the labour market, I will only open it if there is a Europe-wide distribution of the additional 120 000. What does that mean? – That means another 3,600 to come to Austria. If these 120,000 people are divided, you know exactly, then we have more, and then you want to open. So that doesn't fit everything you tell me here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Where do we want to accommodate these people? I mean, I know, it's always so much done, the Syrian doctor who's coming. – A single doctor from Syria sought nostrification. This has been confirmed by Mrs Oberhauser in the Health Committee. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Federal Minister Oberhauser does not shake his head.]] – Don't always rain up like that! Just listen! It's incredible how you're always upset. We also have the statistics of those already reported to the AMS, who already have the right to asylum, which are already here. There we have 18,000 unemployed. Everyone could see the degree of training. It is not the highly educated nuclear physicists, doctors and other academics, no, far more than 70 percent have only a compulsory education degree. This means that if these are to be integrated into the labour market, we can only take them for auxiliary services. That is where we also have an blatant unemployment rate. You yourself said today that the most important thing is training. - Yes, of course. That is, it costs summaries of money to train these people to retrain these people or get them to learn a profession. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That means you have to take money in your hand. If we want to, we must also conduct this debate honestly. Then tell us honestly too, you want to open it sometime, whenever. You certainly already have a date or an idea in your own head when you will, because the excuse with the 120 000 people I just don't let go through. So then you say what you expect, so that how many of these people on the labour market will be integrable at all. How do you want to take these jobs – which is even more important? I think it is a social dream to believe that if we introduce a 30-week hour, we will create so many new jobs. I wonder which businessmen can afford to hire additional people in view of the additional costs of pay, which have already been rightly criticized today. So that's not how it works! Here, too, one has to separate strictly: how many opportunities I have in the labour market, how many people I can accommodate and where can I exclude people from the Austrian labour market, so to speak. There you also have to jump over your own shadow and can't always hide behind anything. We continue to call for the closure of the Austrian labour market, especially for EU citizens in certain areas, such as the construction industry or the cleaning industry. Dec We also want to see the labour market open to these migrants' flows, which are now 85 000. Then we have a chance to make the labour market healthy. Otherwise, I see black.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e12791	Next, Mrs Mag. Schwentner speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e12812	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! Dear spectators! The closing word, you see black, is symptomatic of your form of politics, namely to spread fear and panic over and over again. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] We do not know what qualifications the people have who come here and get asylum. That is why I believe that the idea of setting up competence centres in the labour market services centres is not a very bad one, but, on the contrary, a very good one. It is important to see which qualifications the people who want to come here and find access to the labour market bring. [[Congratulation with greens and SPÖ.]] Please take responsibility once! Show confidence in dealing with problems and challenges and look at the people who come instead of always spreading fear and falsehood, which is obviously better for you! I would like to return to this morning's budget speech. There we are, too, in the fact that things sound nice. Mr Schelling said that he was thinking of a single parent who was concerned about her training and the future of her child. He is thinking of a young person who may sometimes not see the future and the pension he or she receives, or of a pensioner who contributes a lot to the prosperity and yet is afraid and wondering if the money for life will go out. He thinks of a single employee who gives her best every day, who wants to save and is unsure of whether you will stay in the pension. It is very touching that the Minister is thinking about it. However, I would like the Minister not only to think about it, not only in the budget speech, but also in the setting of measures that we can jointly consider, how we can ensure that exactly the single parent, the pensioner who does not know whether it will go out in her life, or the young person who still has a life ahead of her, a professional life, an education, knows that they will be well and her pension will be insured. So let us remember not only in a budget speech and in their fate, but also in the Committee, ladies and gentlemen, which you now have to hold to deal with what your Minister has told us today. Let us think together about what it is to be done in this regard! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There are a lot of ideas about this. We know that single-parents are disadvantaged when it comes to child care, that women in the pension are disadvantaged. I am now slowly coming to the urgent request of my colleagues from the NEOS. It is true that people have no legal claims on certain social benefits, such as in the care or care care care if you have to care for a family immediately and suddenly. There are no legal claims. I think there is much to be done in order to ensure safety during working life and in terms of working time. I'm here now, dear NEOS. I consider parts of your request to be a bit more realistic than what the Minister has told us this morning, namely, that he is thinking about it, that you are thinking of many things, that you are also thinking that 14 percent of the 300 board members, according to a survey in Austria, say they do not agree with labour law and social law and find it too restrictive. I don't really wonder now, I have to say quite honestly that the board of large companies are not so satisfied. They are also on the other side of the medal and also have it easy not to be satisfied. If you're just saying that, what does that mean? – That people should work 16 hours and then continue in the early days, as colleague Birgit Schatz described earlier the work in the hospitality industry? Is that supposed to work until midnight and then start again in the morning? What exactly does that mean? So I don't wonder that the board of directors don't quite agree. And if so, let's look at the other side together! If we want workers who earn little, who don't get so well, to get paid accordingly, then we're thinking about a minimum wage! And I don't know exactly what your position looks like. Is there support in relation to the minimum wage in the low-paid industries? - No! There are, however, a great many workers, especially women, now 500 000 who are being paid very badly and who may also need support from NEOS and many others. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What do I want to go out to? . I believe that a work biography, as Mr Muchich has said, is no longer the same as before. This is not a hop-on-hop-off bus, where you get one step and get up. It's so that it's interrupted that you don't get into the first job, even if you find the first one. It is no longer like the generation of my parents, who were in the same job until the pension and have always received a little more salary, which has risen, especially among men, not women, because they have interruptions. At the end, you just retired. It's not like that anymore. So let's look at these fractions together in a biography, how it really looks in professional life and what it really needs. I think you should think a lot about what the working time is like. This has already been said several times today. Does it need a reduction because we all know that there will not be much or hardly any more economic growth? As far as I know, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy last week was Mr Aigerer of the WIFO and described this urgently. The volume of work does not increase, that is, we need to look at how we divide it better, not only between those working part-time, but also in the form of other working time models. Let us think together about time policy, about family time, about time in care, about time in work, of course also about a different form of work biography than it has so far! If you're a little confident – and that's now back in the direction of FPÖ – then, I think, there's something going on, not least because you're investing in certain areas that mean the future. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] I would like to return to the statements by Mr Haubner from the WIFO, who said before, only the economy creates jobs. – No, also Policy can create jobs. In education, in care, in the social sector, where we urgently need them, you can be very, very... – The taxpayer and the taxpayer, please, also contribute to this. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] We should invest in good jobs precisely in these areas, and one can create work, including in politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e12934	Next word: Mr Hagen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e12955	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! High house! I have already wondered why the Federal Minister today has a pink glasses on it. At the latest after his remarks, it was clear to me that the Federal Government really looked at this labour market situation through the pink glasses and acted accordingly. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the only jobs – and this has not been said quite correctly by my previous speaker – that this Federal Government is really creating, these are the jobs in the AMS. Their number is increasing because there is an increasing number of unemployed to manage. That's a big problem. Ladies and gentlemen! That's where you should sit! These are not good jobs, but we should see that the economy creates jobs and adapt the conditions accordingly. My predecessor from the Stronach team, Mrs Dietrich, has already made it quite clear how to handle this. In principle, you only need to get the program of the Stronach team, which is available on the Internet, also in paper form. That's where you just have to write down and then you'd make a bad labour market policy, Federal Minister. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] But I might also want to talk about something else. I have a lot to think about in this country, which also has to do with labour market policy, namely the young unemployed. Ladies and gentlemen! It gives me real thought. In my personal environment, I have a young apprentice apprentice who is almost 18 years old. With this I always like to talk about what the young people do as they do in the job and how it works with the teaching. And then he tells me the following, and that gives me real thought. Minister! Now you have to listen carefully to me, because you should take that into your work! He tells me that the colleagues in his area have started to teach a carpenter. That's not just one thing, it's about several now. They've got them when they got the 18th. I've finished living, stopped. Then I asked him: Why don't they want to stop working? - No, they'd rather chill, he told me. They sleep until noon, and then they make themselves a loose day, because they get provided as minimum security over 800 € and also an apartment. So they really have it loose. And if they still want and need a little more money, they're going to hack a little black somewhere. So they will beautify the day and live in it in the day. Now I have to say, something is going wrong in this system. Similarly, a vocational school director from Vorarlberg told me a little more than a year ago, he has confirmed this, he has made it quite clear. Having thought about the minimum security and the whole thing a little louder, whether this is really still targeting and just, he has told me the following: They have more and more students in the industrial vocational school who, according to this system, as it now described to me by the boy in my personal environment, cancel the teaching. They break down the teaching, report to the unemployed, and they do it in such a way that there is a common termination with the company, and then they can first resort to the unemployed and then, of course, to the minimum guarantee. And then they're going to hack somewhere a little black, then go to the professional school, that's what the director told me so clearly, talk to the colleagues during the break and tell me I'm doing so great, I have 1,200 € in the bag, and you're working at 400 € or 500 €. You're all down! Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that there is really something wrong in the system and that we should tackle it, because then perhaps we would also have a lower apprenticeship unemployment, and there would be enough teaching places. AMS-chef Kurt Steinbauer from Niederösterreich says quite clearly that some teaching companies are looking for apprentices in vain, because there are simply no interested parties. And that confirms it to me. If, of course, I give them the opportunity to have more money in their pocket – and the young people think from time to time – if they don't work and get everything anyway, then something goes wrong in the system. That's where you have to put, ladies and gentlemen. I think we've heard this many times today: Performance must pay off! Yes, it must be worth it, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] That's what we've been demanding from the Stronach team for a long time. Let's make the conditions so that people like to go back to work, that they have more when they go to work! Not the one who's sitting lazy at home, chills, takes it easy and doesn't care about anything, but says I'm living at the expense of the general public. A former employee of the German AMS – I don't know what it's called there, Social Office, I think – told me the following: People no longer think about who pays this social assistance or this minimum guarantee and whatever it is, that it is the taxpayer, the one who works, who pays into the system. They just say I get the money from the state anyway, that's no problem anyway. We need to get a rethink in our heads again. Then, as I mean, we do right and reasonable policies. Ladies and gentlemen! I think you should sit there. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] I might want to go further because I'm with the Germans right now. In my neighborhood there is a young German couple who have lived in Hörbranz for four or five years with a friend in Untermünte. This young German couple was Hartz IV receiver. They came to Austria a few years ago, as they said, four, five years ago, then worked two years here, and now they are in the minimum security, before referring to the unemployed. And they say we don't have to go to work at all, because we're doing much better than in Germany. As EU citizens, they have the same right as the Austrians, so let them go well. Ladies and gentlemen! If we make such a policy, then we need not be surprised if we cannot occupy the jobs we have very well, and the economy needs people. [[Abg. Katzian: I don't know!]] – Not “unthinkable”! You have no idea! These are the facts. Mein Ladies and gentlemen! – Then go out to the people and you will see what people say! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Katzian.]] [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] As a trade unionist, there's a lot of shudder! You have to go to the people once, then you know what things are, not just trample around on your pride! Ladies and gentlemen, these are the facts. I'll keep it there with Frank Stronach, who says we have to relieve the businesses, we have to take part in the profits so it's worth working again. They really have to have more. I can't tell a cop that he's got to do more than 100 overtime hours, and then he's taken half off. But he's obliged to do this. And others that he'll have to take official action, the stools lazy in the hammock and chill. If such an employment policy is made in Austria, we will soon have to look at it. The problem is that many people from outside are also pushing into this system. And this is not the case, as the colleague Schwentner said before me, that we have a lot of workers or a lot of refugees with qualifications. I can quote you from an article, a contribution from an interview by ORF Vorarlberg. That's where AMS chief Strini said quite clearly: Three-quarters of the refugees, the asylum seekers who have applied for the AMS, are without qualifications, i.e. 75 percent. - Sorry, 75 percent, not three quarters, that's three quarters anyway. [[Ironic hustle and bustle.]] What am I talking about now? [[Demonstratative condolences with the Greens.]] 75 percent are three quarters. Now you've brought me out, but that can happen once. The problem is that these asylum seekers have no qualifications. At best you have a positive school degree, but also these do not have many. These are the problems! How should these people who can't even have a degree in German not even have a professional degree, how should they be introduced into the labour market if we already have too few jobs for our people or have too few jobs? [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: Proposal!]] Although we have jobs in certain sectors, the incentive to work is probably too low. This will also apply to these. And that's a problem that we have to deal with even longer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e13062	The next item is the speech by Mr Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e13083	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Hagen, the only reason why you will not choose less young people after your negative flat-rate judgment on young people, is that you have not chosen anyone before. But by now, everyone knows. So I really think it's pretty bad to make such a statement here about young people on a flat-rate basis – about many who are really looking for work. It's very violent. [[Congratulation with NEOS, SPÖ and Greens.]] [[Intrusions of the Abg. Hagen.]] In this context, I will return to an important issue, namely access to the labour market for asylum seekers. Mr Schellhorn has already said: We will, if we do not take action here, have an integration crisis after the refugee crisis, because it is urgently necessary for successful integration that we have real effective access to the labour market. I know that the colleagues from the FPÖ have a different opinion. We will not now discuss whether it works or not under European law. They always say that this must be done at European level. – For this, you have four Members of the European Parliament who could do so without further delay. I do not think that the current rules are sufficient to do so. If you have an effective access to the labour market for asylum seekers, you could on the one hand prevent asylum seekers from looking for other opportunities and going to the black market, if they are in the asylum process. What could also be prevented is that through years of inactivity, all the qualifications these people have – and now we do not need to discuss statistics, how many are well qualified – will be lost to those who have qualifications if they are not allowed to work for years. Whatever could be done: Asylum seekers could even contribute to their maintenance. This not only increases the self-esteem for the person in itself and also has to do with self-determination, but also makes sense because it would reduce the cost of basic care. In addition, we would also spare ourselves the inconvenient debate that you are constantly bringing, namely that you say on the one hand, yes, they are all on our pockets, but, on the other hand, you do not want them to ensure their own maintenance. [[towards FPÖ]] [[Intrusions of the Abg. New builder.]] So that's not going back and front together. You'd have to choose a page. The fact is, if someone works and can take care of his own, then he does not have to be in the basic care and does not need any state support. I therefore believe it is also important that asylum seekers have the opportunity to pursue a job because it allows them to participate in society. I always wonder how that would be if I explained to anyone here in the House, he can't work for years now, or he can only work in two or three professional areas. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: That's not true! Twelve teaching professions! Read it once...!]] So I think this is deeply wrong. I don't think that makes sense at all. It is only necessary to listen – and this is especially true of social democracy – to what leading trade union representatives or human rights representatives or also the AMS chief have said. I would just like to bring another example, Mr Muchitsch, since you have said that you are all in agreement in social democracy. So the head of the S & D trade unionist in Salzburg, Mr. Forcher, has said – and I am now quoting – “... because in reality no employee or employee in Austria can have an interest in pushing asylum seekers into illegal work. (...) This means that door and gate are open to the neglect of collective contractual standards. And if there is the possibility of doing legal work in our society, the asylum seekers concerned can take care of themselves and thus the social systems can also be relieved." [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] Here's the proposal, discuss it with him again! I really think it makes sense that we come to a solution here. Mr. Federal Minister Hundstorfer – who is not here now – said that there is no infringement procedure of the European Commission. He replied, there is only one communication from the Commission. He thinks he's done his homework and there's nothing else to do. One can now see this as a subjective assessment, but he is allowed to do so. We will then see how it will be in the final effect. I am rather convinced that there will be an infringement procedure, because effective access to the labour market – I think you have to imagine that! – you have to say the following: They argue that there is already this in Austria. What can an asylum seekers work in Austria? [[Abg. Peter Wurm: Over 20 occupations! ... apprenticeships!]] He is allowed to engage in seasonal activities in tourism, harvest workers, there are the possibilities of teaching places, that is perfectly right, there are the possibilities of prostitution. Mr Muchich, you too, I believe, did not know this in the House. At the latest, you should know. So I do not think that this is an effective access to the labour market. [[Abg. Peter Worm: Twelve...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] I think we have to do something. In my view, the directive would have been implemented long ago. As I said, we will see what the Commission is going to do in the end. What we really need are many measures to integrate the people who have come to Austria into the labour market as soon as possible. That is the question of immediately questioning what kind of training is in place in the application. This is about quickly recognizing the qualifications so that we can bring these people into the labour market. This is about offering German courses from the beginning. It is also a question of creating more power incentives, because in basic supply only about €100 allowed, or in some federal states, can be earned to the marginality limit. We would need sensible grinding arrangements, so we would have the opportunity to bring people into the labour market faster. In the field of training: There has now been expanded again. Mr. Federal Minister, I think that it has been extended, but the fact is that an entrepreneur knows when a young asylum seekers teach him that he can be postponed at any time. That's exactly why entrepreneurs say they're not doing this education. [[Intercessions by Member Peter Wurm and Belakovich-Jenewein.]] Accordingly, I do not think this makes sense. To conclude: I believe that an essential point so that we do not fall asleep in an integration crisis is that we finally open the labour market accordingly. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I think it is important that we do this at last, because only in this way will we make it possible that we do not fall asleep in an integration crisis. And that is, I think, in the interests of all of us.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e13248	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Scherak is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e13318	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Vogl.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e13353	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! The partnership of the standstill, you refer to, Mr Loacker, the Austrian social partners, and, as an example, you point out that you have questioned the employers: [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein:... Federal Government!]] What would you do to create jobs? The surprising but also the more honest answer is: Reduce labour costs! They are not talking about additional labour costs, but about wage costs. And you know what? – We have also done so as the social partners, and we have, surprisingly, received the same answer as you. But we asked a second question, and that was: What guarantees can you give if something happens in the area of wage costs that actually creates jobs? The answer was: none. Then we still allowed ourselves to ask a third question and asked how the profits were, how they developed, because we know that there was a very moderate development in unit labour costs in Austria. There was hardly any growth in unit labour costs. That is why we asked: What about the winnings? The answer was: none, because they said: You know that. - Yeah, we know. The profits in Austria have actually developed very well and very reasonable. That is, something is reflected here, which may not fit in quite that way. In Styria Bernd Piesetsrieder, member of the Supervisory Board of Daimler, said that countries like Austria and Germany have no problem with unit labour costs, which is the wrong pitcher. We need to see that we strengthen research and development in companies that we have innovative companies, because this only creates the jobs of the future that we need in our country. We cannot win the fight on the unit labour cost side, we must invest in research and innovation, and there we have great companies in Austria. We should stress that again and again! We really have great companies. It starts in Vorarlberg, goes over Upper Austria, the Styria to Vienna. We should be proud of them and say: They ensure that we also have employment growth! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] Otherwise, I simply find the whole discussion unfair, and that is why I find it very honest that you have written in your request, because it is really about reducing wage costs. The topic of pay side-by-side costs is a side-war scene. Let's just be honest with the people and say: If there is talk of a reduction in the cost of wages, it is about taking away something from people, for what are the additional costs of wages? Holidays? – We already have two holidays less than the Germans. What about the holiday? – Holidays are additional wage costs. We already have a difficult access to the sixth week of vacation with our German colleagues. They've got the sixth week of vacation much faster than we've got them. It's about 13th and 14th. Monthly salary. It's about getting pay paid in the hospital, and we remind ourselves of all the suggestions, the first day of the sick: Holidays. The aim is perhaps to reduce the service provider's share of pension insurance, the share of health insurance and unemployment insurance. All of these are additional wage costs. If you don't say so, let's just say what it's all about. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Loacker: Nothing of what you say...!]] Lowering additional labour costs is right there, and all these are additional wage costs. The accident insurance: Yes, we have shortened them, but also tell you what the benefit of accident insurance is! This is employers' liability insurance, so I can't complain if I have an accident. We also know what he's for when it comes to insolvency payment. The finishing New was first introduced. We know that the development at Weitem is not the way we wanted it to be. Residential development, municipal tax, FLAF – you can discuss this. But then we should be quite honest here: In Germany, the local tax is no longer linked to the wage amount, but it is paid by companies and employers and not by workers. One must also have the courage to say: What are we talking about? Do we want to reduce the benefits for workers? Are employers willing to pay these benefits even in the future if we discuss a re-basing? [[Abg. Peter Worm:... unemployment!]] You know, I very much appreciate you because you are very objective in the discussion, but what bothers me a bit about the request is essentially two things. One thing is: They accuse us of artificially depriving older workers, but let us not forget that we have done a great deal to reduce the additional labour costs of older workers in particular. These are a few percent, which we lower especially for older workers at additional labour costs, so to speak... – Yes, we have shortened that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] You might want to mention that a little bit. The second thing I've really been really angry about is the following: Social security workers do an excellent job. I just don't think I'm right about putting these under flat-rate suspicion, sitting in public-financed care posts. This does not correspond to the style I am used to by you in the political debate. I would like us to look at the Oberösterreichisches Landeskrankenkasse or also at the Vorarlberger Landeskrankenkasse, and then show me these people who have been provided there! I know there only people who work excellently for the insured and do the service, perform a great performance, and they have such a fixed suspicion as you have in this request just don't deserve it.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e13445	Next word: Mr Auer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e13466	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I really want to give my previous speaker a right in many points, because he has shown things that are quite right. Ladies and gentlemen, this morning, Mr Schelling, Federal Minister, urged us all to be part of the solution and not just part of the problem. We all know: At the same time, mood is also economic activity, at least 50 percent. Unfortunately, in Austria we always have a tendency to a negative representation. This annoys me when I read various media, looking at it again and again negatively. That day, it was exactly the 6th. October, there was an interesting article in the newspaper “The Press”. “Of course, politics” – that is the title – “is all to blame. Just ask yourself why so few critics of the political business urge themselves to make it better.” – Why so few? There are examples of journalists who have changed to politics. They are instructive – real successes they were not. [[Call:The stenses, for example]] One might well point out these negative examples, because knowing how something goes is always very practical, especially from the viewer's point of view. That's what we know about football: The audiences are the much better players. They are the perfect referees and, of course, some of the best trainers in the world, because the layout should have been quite different. [[Abg. New builder: And coach!]] It is similar in politics. I know a lot of journalists working here, whether on the government bank or in the Members' ranks. So the success was the end of the line. It should also be noted that there are positive examples in this country. I call you four positive examples of companies: the Voest from Upper Austria, a world company that can be seen, whose management, whose employees do very great work, are competitive in the world and today constitute a company that we should all be proud of in Austria – the first company. [[In the case of the ÖVP, representatives of SPÖ and FPÖ and the Agg. Lightenecker.]] Second operation: BMW Steyr. Why does BMW essentially have the diesel engines manufactured in this engine plant in Steyr? – A working time model, made in the operation itself, can be seen, generated over a million engines – also a very great operation, which is more than remarkable. Third-party operation: Ladies and gentlemen, the Steyr plant in St. Valentin. It was run by a German manager until last year. During an operation visit, this manager told me about the supposedly so much slanderous social partnership in Austria that he was proud and happy that this was in Austria, because if this company were in Italy, he would have to take 12 full days of strike into account and he would not have the qualified people he had in Austria. – We should be proud of this, ladies and gentlemen! The fourth positive example is PÖTTINGER, agricultural machinery producer in Grieskirchen in Upper Austria. In the third year in a row, there is a positive increase in sales, in earnings. This is competitive in the world with 86 percent export rate – 86 percent export rate! So, ladies and gentlemen, if you think that everything is so bad in Austria, then explain to these companies as it is possible that they achieve such world success – through excellent management, by excellent professionals, by committed employees. We should respect this, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Call:Yes, yes, everything is great]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kitzmüller.]] Recently, there was an interesting presentation by some of the company's heads, who made remarkable contributions in Upper Austria. That's where a company manager said the world was full of opportunities and not full of problems. As said the former Minister of Finance of the Republic of Austria, coming from SPÖ, Dr. Hannes Androsch: As an entrepreneur, you need to do something and not miss something! This also applies to politics. That is why the budget has been presented by this government bank today, the new points that are so remarkable. I say quite frankly to you: I am in Parliament for so long that I know that the opposition has always shown everything negative and that, if only it has tried to present objectively – not praiseably, not through the pink glasses – the government has assumed that it was all wrong to lie. [[Intervocations with the NEOS and the Abg. Höbart.]] Everything possible was assumed. Look at your own budget speeches and then look at the billing of the last four years! If you were right, you can judge for yourself, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I am therefore grateful to Mr Schelling for presenting the broadband initiative, as it is important for rural areas. I say, ladies and gentlemen: Agriculture is also a rural economy, and agriculture could do much more if the price situation were something different – for the economy, for employment, for regional contracts. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kitzmüller.]] If today the farmer receives €1.31 for the kilo of pigmeat, if he receives 30 cents for the litre of milk, if he has only 4 percent of the share, which costs a kilo of pommes, if he gets only more than 0.03 cents for the share, which makes up the brewers in the beer: Ladies and gentlemen, then you should think about some things! Therefore, I ask you to think quite openly whether it is important and right that you show up there again and again because you think that there would be, as it were, the expensive products. I claim: Food has never been as cheap as it is at present in Austria, and one should not only allow workers, not only companies, not only trade, but also farmers the fair share.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e13576	Next speaker: Mr Neubauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e13597	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! I would like to thank my predecessor Auer, who presented the above Austrian location in an excellent way, including with his truly good and worldwide representative companies. [[Abg. Auer: How he is!]] But, my dear colleague, Jacob. Auer, I can tell you one thing, too. This location of Upper Austria could be even better for a trace. That is also what the Director of the Voest says, if the framework conditions of the Federal Government were even better. You have to say that too! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] Ladies and gentlemen! Everyone here in the high house has probably already brought the sentence over the lips or heard it: Work has to pay for it again! – We have known this saying for a very long time, and in recent years it has been felt that this saying has unfortunately developed in a different direction under this Federal Government, namely in the direction: People in this country must pay more and more thanks to the politics of this Federal Government! Unfortunately, this is the situation in Austria today. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Federal Minister, when we talk about work, we do not get to talk about and discuss the actual situation of asylum costs in Austria. We have repeatedly heard and read various information on the costs in the media in recent weeks. At the beginning it was said of €500 million, one spoke in the wake of € 1 billion, and then a remarkable, undefined paper appeared, according to which the cost of adding would amount to even 12.3 billion. It would be nice of you, Mr Federal Minister, and also fair to the House, to finally make it clear here and to say what costs Austria actually expects in the future in this sector. To the labour market: Mr Federal Minister, you have already mentioned the situation, namely that we currently have almost 400 000 unemployed; 400 000 individual fates, which are not to be considered small. 400,000 unemployed – mainly affected by this are the 50plus generation, the young people and, of course, as Mr Kassinger has already said, the foreign employees here in Austria. And if, Mr Scherak, it is said from this speaker's point of view that the labour market in Austria bears all this, even this immigration, which we have not started from here, namely in this form that these people should also have access to the Austrian labour market, then I do not understand it, because we are here as Austrian parliamentarians promised to represent the interests of Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Today in Austria, as has been said, we have 400 000 unemployed, and if you want to integrate around 50,000 asylum seekers into this labour market, which is difficult enough, regardless of the training, please explain this to the Austrians, who are already unemployed. Tell them how this is going and that 50,000 people are driving them away from the labour market. That's where I have to say quite honestly: As an Austrian politician, I am in contrast to you – I do not want to take your position, I cannot – on the side of the unemployed Austrians! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Unfortunately, in recent years, this Federal Government has contributed much to not only not creating jobs – which it cannot do, because jobs create the economy – but also destroyed many jobs by overregulations, by demands, by pressures on the economy, the host, tourism. Unfortunately, you have to say that so dramatically here. I was recently at an event of the Oberösterreich Chamber of Commerce, the halls were full until the Bersten – it was about the registers. Representatives of small and medium-sized enterprises were invited to come and find out what's going on. I can tell you one thing: In the first hour, they were legally informed that you need it. In the second hour, the representatives of the register companies came and wanted to attach their product. And after an hour, the forested businessmen left the hall and 50 representatives of companies that produce registers are still standing and have advertised for their product. If this is the information of the economic operators to make lobbyism for the registry companies and to inform their own forced members in the way that lobbyism is being performed for the other side, then, I must say, from my point of view, those who are in favour of abolishing compulsory fees are clearly in advantage. Ladies and gentlemen! This morning, the Minister of Finance has given some information on how he will present himself to the budget in the future, but they are already Makulatur today, at this hour. He won't be able to keep much. Ten thousand homes in Upper Austria with 17 000 asylum applications are already in this area alone. There are also many other things that are included in the budget, a thousand of Schelling, actually Makulatur. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! If you start working for the interests of the Austrians immediately, it is not too late. But in case you don't, I'll give you a good advice. Release the way for new elections!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e13671	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e13694	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I'll try to make a few things worse. Mr Neubauer, I am really grateful to you for the example of the Voest – but tell the whole truth! [[Abg. New builder: With you she has fallen...!]] Tell me the whole truth! What is the main problem of the Voest? – These are European energy costs. [[Abg. Neubauer: Also!]] And we in Europe have a standing and say: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, No to fracking! – That’s the difference with America, and that’s what it’s all about. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kassinger.]] That's our challenge. And overturn with your populism You're yourself now. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Now at once you criticize the high energy costs with us on the one hand, but at the same time you love the low energy costs in America. However, you know very well that Europe, if it continues to stand: A clear no to atomic current, a clear no to fracking!, these prices never bring together. As in this area, it is also in the budget area: All the proposals you make in the social field would total an increase in the social budget by €12 billion. Explain Please ask the Austrians how to finance this! – Populism is nice, but leave it at home! [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and NEOS.]] You only need to calculate your own applications. You have, I think, highly specialized tax advisors, accountants in your ranks. [[Intrusion of the Abg. New builder.]] You only need to calculate this, then you come to €12 billion. I would also like to contribute a little bit to making the debate easier. Mr Hagen is no longer in the hall, so I would ask him to give the following, as he said that 75 percent of those entitled to asylum in Vorarlberg did not have a corresponding training. Ladies and gentlemen, I can inform you: At the hour of 310 asylum seekers are registered with the AMS in Vorarlberg. It's 310, just so everyone knows what we're talking about. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] In addition, there are still 40 apprentices, asylene youths, who have reported themselves as a job seekers in Vorarlberg. Why we have not yet been able to accommodate this 40 in this overhang in Vorarlberg, I cannot answer at the hour, but we will also bring it together. The BMS example is really nice. Of course, the fact that there are people in every population, in every state, in every community, who are trying to trick the state is natural. That's clear, because otherwise there would be no penalties because someone drives 180 km/h, where you can only drive 130 km/h. That's not a question. But how is this in Vorarlberg? – Vorarlberg is one of those federal states that only approve the BMS for one year from home. A year! And then the county administration authority has the damn..., the obligation to look. The BMS can also be shortened. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: But I can ask her again, Minister!]] Yeah, she can also be shortened. Mr. Worm, I know you have a special problem in your small town in Tyrol. I know this problem, you don't need to tell us anymore. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] - No, you don't need that, because we all know it. The fact is: Last year, the country of Vienna shortened the BMS of 7 900 BMS, because they believed they failed than the country of Vienna. It has been deleted, it has been shortened. Similarly, 90,000 people last year experienced a removal, a reduction in unemployment benefits. There's all that. The instruments are on the table, you just have to apply them. I know that's not always easy. For a nice example of the Hartz IV couple from Germany: A former Hartz-IV couple with two children is better off in the Federal Republic by 300 to 400 € than with us with the BMS. And if this really is a couple that calculates, then it would be back home. You just have to work it all up and put it on the table. [[Abg. Katzian: Gschachlprinters are these!]] Again: I don't want to hide anything, and I don't want to abdicate at all, that there are, of course, people who try to make some sort of trick 17, yes, that's there, but that's why we're trying to counter it, like the country of Lower Austria, the country of Vienna, where the BMS is only approved for a year from home. There are even examples from the Styria, there are a few special-district teams, which only take six months from home, because this is how you can look at it again and again, and when you look at it, you come up with certain developments. Now, as regards the asylum seekers and those entitled to asylum, Mr deputies, you were not in the Committee, because you are not a member of this Committee: We had 55 000 applications at the beginning of October. This will probably increase to 60 000 by the end of October, and then it is important whether the interior area is right with the 85 000 or whether we are staying somewhere at 75 000 in the stage. But what I can tell you is the age structure of these people, because whether it is 55 000 or 60 000 – that does not matter – 25 percent of these people are zero to 15 years of age. You can pull it off once. Of course, there is a need for kindergartens and schools, not a question, but 25 percent are between the first year of life and the 15th century. The rest is 15 years old or older. There is a minimum percentage of over 65-year-olds, but I say that myself, you can forget that, because that is 0.5 percent. You can forget that. The main target group is those in between, and there we have a special theme for the whole boy, those at the age of 16, 17, 18 years and so on. We are trying to make this more effective in those four regions of Austria, where we have an effective overhang of teaching places, which has manifested itself – this is the case in Tyrol, Vorarlberg, Salzburg and also in parts of Upper Austria, because we also have fewer 15-year-olds in these countries. For the first time, we have around 10 000 15-year-olds less than three years ago, because I have said this more often, which was not born in 1999/2000, now is not here. That's it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steinbichler.]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: You can't really do anything for it now, there you are innocent!]] We also have the following situation: If you read the newspapers these days, you will see that we already have a decline in population, because we have more deaths than births again – you only need to read today's or tomorrow's newspapers! – and this too will have an impact over the next few years. The fact is, these are just the asylum seekers, and now is the big question: What remains of asylum seekers? – After all our experience from the past and also all the experiences regarding the composition of asylum seekers, it will be over the next year – during the next year! – about 30,000 people. At present, 19 000 are listed with the AMS and you can deduct 7 000 from the AMS. Why? – These are people who have been here for a very long time, but still have the status, who have become quite normal unemployed – quite normal. Then we have 4,000 inside who get some power from the AMS and a performance over the BMS, these are the so-called uplifters – these are people who have been here for some time. And those who remain, 8,000 to 8,500, are people who get zero money from the AMS because they have never been in the process, and who have now been looked at by us with this competence check. This check of competence has now been made in Vienna for the first time, but it is also made in parts of Tyrol and in parts of Upper Austria. Why in parts? – Because you always see where agglomerations are, and there are automatically more of those entitled. And I can also tell you that at least in Vienna we have come to believe that about 7 percent of academics are under it – no more, but no less. It's by 7 percent academics, male and female, and then we have 15 percent people with a training from the HTL on apprenticeships, and, and, and. The rest have compulsory school. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] A certain percentage may not have the compulsory school at all, but we assume that if we continue to work it all up, they will have compulsory school. This structure is the past structure. This past structure will change in the future, for who will actually get a status? – You know that as well as I do: It's people from Syria, Afghanistan, a little bit from Iraq, and then it was – apologise for me to say this so nonchalant now. And we expect that in the next few months, as has been said, this will not happen at once, from stage to stage, over the year to the 30,000. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: That's going on in January, isn't it?]] Again: This also depends on how fast the procedures are and how quickly the recognitions take place. The whole thing depends on that. We have an experience from the past, how fast we were, and I hope we can keep this pace in the future. It has also been increased to staff, so I hope we can keep the pace. And we have provided for these people. On the one hand, we have provided automatically in the current AMS budget, and for what is added – you have not entered the budget documents now, but I may inform you – you will receive the basis for further funds in an amendment until the decision is taken in second reading and may decide or not decide – I do not know that. In any case, you can decide on additional resources to be able to work more closely with these people, where we already have 40 million euros inside, and then something is added – “a little bit” is well said, there is a lot more to it. We want to work with these people out of our overall responsibility. Of course, we do not know how long certain groups of persons actually stay here, but we assume that those who have now sought asylum status want to take it very, very seriously and really stay here. These people deserve our contribution, as do all the others who have been reported unemployed, that is no question. That we have increased foreign labour, yes, this also depends on the fact that younger Hungarian forces are coming and these are pushing out the older Hungarian forces. This is also due to the fact that younger Slovenian, Hungarian, Bulgarian, Romanian forces also banish those from Serbia and Turkey who came to us in the 1970s and 1980s. That's just for the purpose of reconnaissance. And because you have also said that the wage and social dumping law is such a disaster: You know, ladies and gentlemen, your party has not agreed because it is too soft for her because it is not enough for her. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: That's right!]] Please read the statements of your colleagues who liked this when we had the decision-making, it is too soft for them! And now – coming from the same party – you are here and saying that all this is a disaster?! - Don't be angry with me! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] Do you want to protect the Austrian labour market with the same wage at the same conditions for the people working here, yes or no? Do you want that, yes or no? – If so, then a wage and social dumping law must be based, and we have done so. The only ones who didn't agree were you because it was too soft for you. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Well, right!]] I say to you that we have found the greatest possible compromise, the greatest possible compromise between the natural interests of the economy – and I do not want one who is here for two weeks on education to fall into it at once, I do not want anyone who works for five days on a fair stand and comes from somewhere, and I do not want to do so – and fair conditions for all those who work here. That is why we have voted very well in favour of the implementation of the Chamber of Commerce, the Industrial Union and the workers' side. Again: What we want to achieve by this law is fair conditions for all who work here – fair conditions for all who work here! [[Abg. Peter Wurm: Well, not at all! I'd check that out once, but you won't!]] And the sadness of this law is the following: 50 percent of the companies we catch are domestic companies. But we don't catch them because they don't have any documents – that's no longer the subject, there are time limits – but we catch them for under-remuneration, and that's the problem. Another problem that goes beyond that is that all of a sudden parts of the economy come to me and say I'm too soft! [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: I was right!]] The broadcasts of the Chamber of Commerce Niederösterreich, Section of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce Burgenland, Section of Commerce, the Chambers of Commerce Styria and Carinthia, Section of Commerce, you can all have, just stand in there, that I am too soft. – And then all of a sudden, the party that wants to protect the “little man” comes and explains to me that I am too hard. – Don’t be angry with me, it’s populism pure! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e13945	Mrs Lichtenecker's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e13967	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister Hundstorfer, you have now cleared up with some errors, myths and fairy tales, and at the same time you have to clean up with a fairy tale on your part. Yes, international companies such as the Voest have it in themselves that they also have international locations and therefore also in America, for example – and that is also good. [[Federal Minister Hundstorfer: Yes, eh!]] It is just such a fairy tale that energy costs are always the determining factor, and we should say that quite clearly today. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[New observation from Federal Minister Hundstorfer.]] At the same time, of course, we also have hundreds of companies operating internationally, and this also has its good reason: This is not about a shift in production, but it is also about being on the local markets. Today, the labour market deficits are always being addressed, and it is much less about what the future picture of work is, what future labour markets are and how we can shape them, how we can secure them. In my opinion, three main areas will be: The first is investment in the future, the second is a reduction in labour costs – a clear reduction in labour costs – and the third is to make good conditions for start-ups, EPCs and small and medium-sized enterprises. First of all, to invest in the future: This is very clearly about the field of education, research, innovation and technology. These are the key challenges, and as we have seen today, there will again be serious structural shortcomings in the budget for next year, which will continue to accompany us and which will be a disadvantage, especially in the fields of education and research. In this regard, the question arises of how we can solve this, and you, as a minister, who is also responsible for the labour market, would do well to compete in these areas, for one thing is clear: Today's research is tomorrow's jobs, and that is why it is important to invest – just as Mr Vogl has emphasized today. We're missing the means. Significantly, a budget speech has been given today, in which the issues of environmental protection and climate protection have not even been mentioned, with no syllables, and we know, ladies and gentlemen, that is the challenge, but also the opportunity of the future. We have hundreds of businesses in Austria, which are leading the way, which create thousands of jobs, and it is precisely there that we need to invest, also in the context of the climate conference in Paris in a few weeks. This is about the future-oriented transformation of the economy. Only one example from Upper Austria: There we have an eco-energy cluster, where more than 170 companies are gathered and working – very successfully working! I mention two examples: the company Fronius – Fronius is leading and the world market leader in the solar energy sector – and the company ÖkoFEN. This is a Mühlviertler company with its eco-pellets heating plants that export worldwide. That is exactly what the markets for the future are, and there is a need to invest. This is something we miss, and we need to focus on it in the future. The second area in this future investment is a modern infrastructure. Now we have experienced that broadband development has been disputed for months. Then the money's finally there, then it's de facto too little. We know that we are falling back in this area and everything is de facto far too slow. This is essentially also a form of standstill management. And of course it is about sustainable transport systems and modern energy networks. That's exactly where it's worth investing! If we are talking about the relief of the factor of work, it is of course a modernisation of the tax system, Mr President. It's not about taking someone away – not at all! – we want a redistribution of the tax burden – that is exactly what it will be – a relief of the labour factor. This is exactly what will create jobs, especially in the small and medium-sized areas. That's where it's supposed to be. Finally, the subject of framework conditions for undertakings: The start-ups don't have it easy. We know that, compared to the EU average, the founding period in Austria is disproportionate. At the same time, it is difficult for the EPCs to deal with different framework conditions, whose improvement is long overdue. This is about simplifying procedures, it is about improving social security, and, of course, small and medium-sized enterprises are about reducing bureaucracy and implementing a long-term one-stop shop. A processing of all these areas has long been in progress. All these areas need to be addressed consistently, and I am sure that you will find majority voting outside the government parties. It is important to work consistently, to work as quickly as possible, and thus to ensure the future, in particular the jobs and opportunities for young people.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e14018	Next, Mr Magistrate. Loacker's word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e14040	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Minister Hundstorfer and Long-Term Deputies Auer said you'd have to make a little good mood, you shouldn't talk anything bad. – Of course, the fact that you have to talk well here after 32 years in the house is of course, but it doesn’t make the situation better for those people who don’t have a job when I’m talking about everything! - I can't do that. [[Abg. Wöginger: You won't!]] With regard to the sub-pension, I already have to direct one to the ÖVP social speaker: The partial pension has a single difference at the continuous age-part-time – a single one! – namely that the companies are replaced by 100 percent of the additional costs and not 90. [[Abg. Wöginger: Yes, uh, what are you up to?]] That is why the ÖVP has agreed to the salad, because it is again a pure money distribution action so that the marketing-gag could be sold partial board. [[Abg. Wöginger: What are you so excited about?]] And why the ÖVP is giving up for such a marketing-gag that does nothing in the pension sector, which no longer keeps people in the work process, but which only gives more support to entrepreneurs, I do not understand. [[Abg. Wöger: Why not?]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wöger.]] So, and now I come to the colleagues who blamed me, NEOS wants to abolish social partnership. I think there are some things in a bit of a shaky light. [[Abg. Katzian: The good is, you can't determine that!]] Mr Katzian, you will then lull your polemics over it in the next post, but I know what you always say anyway. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Katzian.]] – Yes, you can take it as seriously as Mr Vogl did. But I would like to point out one thing: The Chamber of Labour, which Mr Muchich rightly says, should advise employees on whether they are properly paid, whether the termination is right or not. Injustice has taken place or whatever – that is their job and their task – but to test the quality of vegan sausages and to test which means helps better against pimples, I do not need a working chamber for that. But she's swimming in the money so she doesn't know what to do with it anymore! Unfortunately, the citizens also know far too little that in the Chamber of Labour the average supplementary pension is higher than the average ASVG-pension, because the workers' chamberers put the money of the “little people” in their pockets diligently. Mr Haubner said that the Chamber of Commerce had anyway reduced the contributions by 30 percent, but he has been in the business for so long that he has forgotten that this was sometime in 2000. However, during the period from 2004 to 2013, the chamber envelopes of the Chamber of Commerce increased by 46 percent, as a result of a request response from the Ministry – I do not invent that. So it would be time to get along properly again, and this has nothing to do with beautiful things on our part, but you are talking about your own administrative stage. Mr Königsberger-Ludwig has accused me of having some of what we are bringing here would be a neoliberal approach, and I can live with this criticism. With this I can live very well! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wöger.]] The Social Democrats have a policy, and we just have a liberal. I don't feel that's an accusation – yes, I don't think that's an accusation. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: Democracy lives on discussion!]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wöger.]] The Greens – I think they were – accused us of having questioned the board of directors. – We have questioned entrepreneurs who have management functions in companies up to 99 employees! So we're not talking about group directors sitting on the chair, sitting fat on the chair, saying that the workers should hack more, but we're talking about people who are responsible for small and medium-sized businesses, and they're expecting liberal regulations in labour law, because they're getting better off with day-to-day business. For the people who work, and for the people who create jobs, we use ourselves, and we warn that we are bureaucracy those in Austria to death, that at the end of the day there are no jobs. Mr Vogl has said, but they also do not guarantee that additional jobs will be created. So anyone in the economy who demands a guarantee for anything has simply not understood anything, nothing from economy, from change, from the price mechanism supply and demand. If I may now sum up what we have heard today from red and black, and unfortunately also from you, Minister: In the field of labour market, we cannot expect anything from this government. It's like the vice chancellor said: It is swirled around and it is swirled as before!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e14178	Next speaker: Mr Katzian. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e14199	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Loacker, you have already looked bright anyway, because it is exactly what happened at the beginning of this urgent question: Whoever throws such a urgent with 97 questions is not about combating unemployment in this country, he wants to take off a show here, and you have done so in the areas where you think you are well aware. I'll tell you: This urgent request is a special class belly spot, because your urgent request has nothing to do with what is actually to be done to combat unemployment; I will allow myself to go into individual points. That's not how it's done! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] They complain of the lack of concepts against unemployment. Then let us look at what you think to combat unemployment. The first thing you write in the urgent before you make any suggestion yourself: You know who's to blame. The social partners are to blame! It's all right. You are therefore guilty, Mr Loacker writes, because when it comes to reforms, they are always suffocated in the germ. Well, of course you have to look more closely at what reforms this is about. Subsume what Are you, then, under the clearly positive concept of reforms? These are mostly serious deteriorations for workers. And there you can be sure: Such reforms will at least suffocate at least the part of the social partners' union and the part of the social partners, because we do not want our colleagues to stay on the track. That's so simple, Mr. Loacker! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Then you say that has even led to uncertainties in collective treaty negotiations. So I tell you very honestly that what happened there was anyway a novum in the collective treaty history in this country: The fact that an employer's organisation goes here says: We can't negotiate with you, we have to go to the Federal Government first and listen to what they are planning, otherwise we can't offer you any salary increases!, that's a taboo, because so far it's always clear, collective treaty negotiations are the case of the respective collective partners in the respective industry, and this has always worked well. No one knows what the Kasperltheater actually had to do with reality except the person concerned. I am very glad that we are now in proper negotiations, and I mean and hope that we will soon reach a good conclusion. You say you want to fight unemployment. I am telling you what we are doing to combat unemployment. One measure is to increase purchasing power, because increase in purchasing power is proven to lead to growth and employment. The Germans have done this by introducing the legal minimum wage, which has led to an increase in purchasing power for many who have previously earned less. We're going to be 1. In January, implement the tax reform: €5.2 billion for workers and pensioners. I know that in your world view this does not fit in that employees get something because you say the wage costs are too high, the additional wage costs are too high. Then come with the cops and say: Get out of here! The fact is, the tax reform is made with 1. Years implemented: €5.2 billion. And all economic researchers confirm the positive effect! Of you, we're certainly not going to let this go small! Take note of this, Mr Loacker! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am already at your additional wage costs; some have already said something to you today. In any case, the additional wage costs were higher before the crisis than now, we have made two reductions. Of course, that's all too little and far too small for you. I can tell you quite honestly that you can discuss the reduction of additional labour costs with me. For example, we can start a discussion on a re-basing at the Family Allowance Fund immediately. Let us make a value-added basis for the family tax compensation fund! This would mean that personnel-intensive businesses will be relieved of the burden on capital-intensive businesses, there would be a shift, and I believe that we would have a good opportunity to reduce the total additional wage costs. Look, and that's your problem: They play the Kasperl here and start when someone makes a suggestion to laugh in a superficial way and put the other down as if he were not of this world. [[Abg. Mr Loacker: Mr President! ‘Kasperl’?- Oh, my God!]] [[President Head gives the bell sign]] Quite frankly, no one has deserved this superiority here, and I do not like it from you either, Mr Loacker! It's quite open.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e14261	Ladies and gentlemen, please put the final sentence to the vote. The speaking time of your group is exhausted.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e14276	I'm not taking the Kasperl back!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e14302	Then I'll give you a call for order.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e14323	Thank you. – Tell us very concretely if we reduce the additional wage costs, how many jobs are created! I've been on the road in several companies lately and have asked the same question everywhere: If you reduce additional wage costs, how many jobs will you create? How many people will be You're setting it up again? Tell me, two or three or anything! – No one, no one,...
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e14341	Mr deputies, your speaking time has long been exhausted. Please close the sentence, and then it's over!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e14361	... no additional job! So take note of one thing: With these programs you present here, you can probably serve your financier well, but certainly not the employees!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e14392	Next word: (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e14413	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) 'The companies are insecure. This has a direct impact on investment and the labour market. The country needs a start – the core is: Jobs, jobs and jobs, in order to ensure general prosperity and social cohesion in the long term." That's what IV President Kapsch says about the current situation. Yes, it is true that only entrepreneurs create jobs, and it is necessary that we appreciate and support this group in times like this. And we do not need any flat-rate convictions as Mrs Steßl, Secretary of State, made in the course of the tax reform. We are also against tax fraud, because he distorts the competition, and that is bad for our entrepreneurs. The utopian demands that colleague Vogl has previously put into the room are best tested at your company in Steyr. [[Ah-and-oh call at the FPÖ.]] I am convinced that they are counterproductive, that our entrepreneurs are insecure and that no new jobs will be created. If we did not have the group tax and so qualified employees, then we would look bad, because then other groups would also migrate abroad. Therefore: No new burdens, neither for large businesses nor for small businesses, nor support our Minister of Finance's announced reform course. These reforms will be painful, we have experienced this in health reform. This is not a Sunday walk, we have lost voter voting, but it was absolutely necessary, because only when we get to the gas in the reforms can we also reduce the additional wage costs, which we absolutely need for international competition. 60 percent of our export quota is at stake and therefore a reduction is necessary. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Another point that our Minister for Finance has addressed is the expansion of the scope for action for our companies, which is very important, including in the field of working time law, worker protection. The small businessman has to see if the employees wear the safety shoes every day. An employee can no longer wait for the freight forwarder who brings the delivery because he is already in operation for ten hours. This is annoying businessmen, but also annoying workers. Yes, and what's really going on in practice, you'll only find out if you're looking for employees. I've now had the case that I've been looking for production staff. It is terrifying how many people come who only have compulsory schooling. It is terrifying how openly speaking about social fraud According to the motto: I get 900 €, I can only work more small now. And there are still the candidates who are only about one stamp. That should have been over for a long time. And it is also terrifying how many do not appear when you offer candidates a day of Schnupper, which is paid which is registered. We must start with compulsory training in the company for compulsory school graduates, with a reform of minimum security – it should be an incentive and not a comfort zone. And the rules of visibility are also covered. It is only then, if we make the measures more stringent, that we can occupy open jobs and thus also counteract social abuse. I think that's a concern for all of us. We have good conditions in Austria, we have great, innovative entrepreneurs, we have qualified employees, we have a well-functioning external economic organisation of the Chamber of Commerce which supports the export industry, we have new financing possibilities and low interest rates, we have also picked up research and development, and the collective reform will also help to increase consumption. However, we only create a clear and sustainable reduction in unemployment if we courageously and quickly implement the reform course presented by the Minister of Finance, and I cordially invite you to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e14483	Next speaker: Mr Peter Wurm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e14508	Mr President. Minister! Minister! [[Abg. Heinzl: Gemma’s an!]] Gemma’s on! – Yes, the budget speech of Finance Minister Schelling today was of course a revelation. I had to smile in his comparison, he now wants to get up from the Regional League East to the Champions League with the government. I have to tell you: First of all, you miss the Champions League-friendly players, and second, you've been in the long off-road for years, that's what you should notice sometime. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Second story, very briefly: What I have missed today from the ÖVP, above all, was your great election slogan at the 2013 National Council election – if you may remember – namely: ‘Economic decommissioning’. I would like to remind you again: At the time, that was your big requirement, your goal: “Detachment of the economy”. If you talk to entrepreneurs today, they'll tell you exactly what you just haven't gotten out of here. They have tied up the economy. Let's go back to the starting position. A lot has already been said today. Because of the really hard and terrifying figures, I would simply like to repeat it again: Our social system is powerful like an emperor's mammoth. In January 2015, we had 472,000 unemployed. In January 2016, we will not only exceed half a million, we will probably reach 550 000 if this development continues as it has been in recent months. And if 550 000 unemployed people are not a disaster scenario for a SPÖ, I don't know what else to do, so that you can finally wake up. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It's not just the unemployed. I would like to remind you again: We have around 250 000 minimum insurance providers – trend: strongly rising! We have 170 000 emergency professionals – trend: strongly rising! And we have 80 000 asylum seekers here – trend: not only strongly rising, but almost exploding! I would also like to remind you: We now have 8.7 million inhabitants in Austria, and nearly 1.2 million of them are no longer Austrians. On the economic side we had a forecast for 2014 – you know that – of 1.7 percent growth, we finally reached 0.4 percent. So that's not just close by, that's a disaster. And at the moment we will not reach the forecast for 2015 at 1.2/1.4, we will probably be the same as 2014: at just under 0.4 percent. According to the Wifo's agent, one thing is clear: There will be no economic growth for the next ten years. [[Abg. Wöginger: You don't want it at all!]] That means we have a huge problem on both sides. In order to increase unemployment, it was also clear that: 10 percent of Austrians, around 24 percent of foreigners. You have to say that, too, so that everyone knows. The proportion of foreigners in unemployment is already high at 28 percent. And this also costs money, the Minister knows: Every unemployed person costs €19 000 a year. This means that the foreign unemployed are already costing €2.5 billion. In order to fix that, too. [[Federal Minister Hundstorfer: Payed! Reimbursed!]] I am not going to stop for a long time with the fact that unemployment statistics of course lack a lot: People with a disability, infirmary, with pension advance. So about 40 000, 50,000 are missing in statistics anyway. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with Federal Minister Hundstorfer.]] Mr Minister, we have discussed this. I'd like to apologise right after you smile behind me now. Before the summer break, I was here and said that 50 percent of the minimum insurance providers are not Austrians. I need to correct myself: That is only true of Tyrol. Only in Tyrol do we have almost 50 percent of non-Austrians in minimum security. You corrected me: It is about 33 percent across Austria. If that is the case, I would like to make it clear now that everyone has understood it. The burden on the municipalities and on the total budget due to the minimum guarantee is currently €1.5 billion per year. This is always turned under the carpet. With regard to the “Asylwerbers”, I would like to make it very clear, in particular the NEOS and the Greens: Maybe you'll leave once. Their extended attic floors with roof terraces and come down to the ground of reality, because then you would see what is happening in Austria. We have 70 to 80 percent of business refugees. We don't have jobs for these people, nor do we have apartments for them. And that costs the state at the moment €1.5 billion. That's what I said here in spring. The Minister said that was not true. In the meantime, we all know that the figures are very good. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Of those entitled to asylum, 19 000 are currently unemployed. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] I tried to find out: We currently have 65 000 asylum seekers in Austria, 19 000 of them are in unemployment, and about 35 000 of them receive minimum security. If you can add, you know how many of the asylum seekers are on the labour market.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e14596	The final sentence, please, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e14611	Unfortunately, I have to come to the conclusion that I had more to tell. Again, quite clearly: We liberals have made a wealth of proposals: sectoral move-in, restrictions. What is absolutely necessary here in Austria, which is an economic-friendly mood, is the entrepreneur of the only one who creates sustainable jobs. And you should finally put that into reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e14644	Next speaker: Mrs Dr Lintl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e14665	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! “Employed and hopeful” – so it is in our Federal anthem. However, the words do not find a favourable environment in the current labour market situation. There is no longer any reason for the Austrians to be hopeful if we have to expect an unemployment rate of 10 percent in the long term. And not even this forecast can be trusted, because the future increase in the number of asylum seekers and eligible beneficiaries who are pushing on the Austrian labour market is not serious at this time. These figures will rise rapidly and, as the Minister first said, there will be 30,000 people per year who receive a positive asylum notice. [[Federal Minister Hundstorfer: Next year!]] On the other hand, our system of minimum protection ad absurdum leads to the designation “work-free” in Austria. This system of social hammock does not encourage the pursuit of employment. As an example, we can see the current figures of Vienna: It is 9 percent of the Viennans in the minimum guarantee – that is about 150,000 people, and this number is increasing dramatically every year. Social assistance recipients are getting younger and younger. According to an article in the “Presse” 20 percent of the Viennans are directly in the demand-oriented minimum security after school! Many do not even try to start training. This may be due to poor language skills, but not only because many Austrian compulsory school graduates cannot read, write and count enough to think of starting a teaching. This is dramatic, ladies and gentlemen, because the number of ‘NEETs’ – as the abbreviation means for young people who are not in education, not in school and not in work – is constantly increasing. They will not be able to stand on their own feet under these conditions in the future, and you can imagine how terrible it is for young people to have no prospects at all. But this situation has developed for years, even in the time when there has not yet been such a dramatic refugee base. But it is not only the lack of incentive to integrate young people into the work process, but also the challenges by increasing the retirement age, the integration of immigrants, who have not only been granted a residence permit according to the criterion of the need for the Austrian labour market, and the increasing number of asylum seekers are increasing record unemployment rates and the overall situation is becoming more and more hopeless. In recent years the government has failed to deal with this dramatic labour market situation with a number of measures. The improvement of economic policy frameworks includes improved location policy and a performance-based tax system. However, high additional labour costs and restrictive labour and social legislation hinder the inclusion of further workers, especially SMEs who have the highest levels of corporate tax burden in Austria. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, Austria has long separated itself from the European labour market policy and does not follow the example of the much more successful other European countries.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e14705	Next speaker: Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e14726	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the gallery and in front of the television! That was a very, very interesting discussion on this urgent matter today, because, I think, Minister Hundstorfer has also drawn a picture of what has actually happened among the last two governments in recent times: of this decline in the number of 15-year-olds, of families, where many married couples or single parents were no longer willing – or after mature consideration came to the realization that they could no longer afford to do so with a view to the future – to put another or more children into the world – children we need! I have recently said in the debate on a family issue that children are future taxpayers. No matter what education system they grow up in what profession they work in, they pay! And even if they are apprentices – because so often it is discussed or argued about, more education is needed: An apprentice already pays tax from the first day! We need to know, these are tax payers again. This should be taken much more into account, Mr Minister, even when it comes to the question of how long the child allowance is paid. This is also about equality with those who are studying. We must also pay the working professions and the productive professions that we can still keep in the country accordingly, so that these people can also live from this income! [[Congratulations with the Stronach team, as well as with representatives of the FPÖ.]] Today, the In the course of the budget speech, the question was: Who put in $1,000? - We need to look around in the country. There are enough members of professional groups, enough workers, who have to earn and live 1 000 euros a month or even less! I think we have to bring much more reality here, we have to talk a lot more about analyzing the causes than looking for them in great world history. In this context, the Director-General of Voest, Director Eder, set a good example last week: Right, if in Austria the average hourly wage in industry is €33.30, in Germany €23.20 and in China €4.40, then we have to find an answer! Otherwise one should have gone down again as in agriculture with the palm oil butter, because it could then be produced much cheaper from the rainforest and in Ethiopian countries than here in a healthy agriculture – which in turn means jobs, which means well-kept cultural landscape, which means circular economy. These many SMEs, small and medium-sized enterprises we are losing! President Auer has put it to the fore. He has rightly regretted the situation in agriculture and also his own work. This is not a question, because who is responsible, Mr President? But you're right: At the opening of the Rieder trade fair, the President himself was on the spot, and if someone there presented the situation in agriculture, he was a messmaker. Those who have beautified them and have said – like President Schultes – are already going to, the businesses must be well positioned, so, as far as possible, near industrial spaces where one can dedicate, or equipped with good inheritance, these were the bravers. So that's not a policy for rural areas, and that's what's happening to us now. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We can then prove this in the financial compensation process. Only: That is then the treatment of the wrong policy again! I thought of it today in the morning. I went to the meeting today, and in Linz the whole traffic has stood – but not because of an accident, but because more and more people from the districts have to go to work in the central area. This means an enormous consumption of time that the family or the leisure economy lacks, and enormous stress. There an employee with seven or eight hours of working time has a load of ten or eleven hours. All this has to be assessed differently, and I am thinking particularly of these many rural hosts, these many small and medium-sized enterprises, as President Auer has rightly said, who die with these farmers. 100 000 farmers have closed their farms! This concerns a large number of forging companies, a large number of electricians, small businesses, on-site family businesses – who have trained apprentices, employed employees in a family relationship. That's worth it, I think. If you work in a large group, you often do not have this appreciation of how you work in such a family business. It is therefore a wealth of results that we have to evaluate differently. And I think that was the approach today. Although the Minister of Finance has presented the figures very civil and nationally, we have a problem here: 6 or 5 billion € are missing. And I think you have to ask the question clearly: Where can we take these, if we are not prepared to take structural measures, to reforms that have long been announced, if we repeatedly defend the membership of the Chambers, if we defend social security and do not give up the pledge there and do not make these funds available to the active economy, funds which the Minister of Economic Affairs, the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Social Affairs could best distribute to citizens? In this sense, I believe, it is essential that we continue this discussion. One thing I missed – and the reason for this was probably that NEOS introduced these urgents today – was the discussion of these issues that we have now discussed in connection with TTIP. Why was this demonstration so silenced by the media in Berlin? 250 000 citizens have expressed their legitimate concerns and fears; the same is true in Austria. Mr. colleague, your hand movement is not good, because I think it is quite, very essential that we discuss properly what is particularly relevant to these social standards in the labour market and these effects up to the privatisation of water. [[towards ÖVP]] I think it is important to say that we are much more serious about the legitimate fears and concerns of citizens here. The time of driving is over! [[In the case of the Stronach team as well as the Abg. Kickl.]] I believe that the economic situation is serious enough for all of us to work together – from agriculture, from SMEs to industrial groups, to the social sector – to solve this problem together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e14786	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Schellhorn, colleagues, on the creation of an annual working-time model in tourism: Who is in favour of this proposal? – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[Interlocutory calls to the ÖVP, as representatives of the FPÖ have risen from their seats to take a seat immediately.]] – Nevertheless, the minority. [[Call the ÖVP – towards FPÖ –:Good morning!]] Debates of the European Parliament Alm, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the reduction of chamber contributions: Who is for this, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. The application was rejected. vote on the motion for a resolution by Mrs Scherak, colleagues on access to the labour market for asylum seekers. Who is in favour of this proposal? – This is the minority. This request was also rejected. [[18:40:38]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e14849	We shall resume the negotiations on points 8 to 12 of the agenda. Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e14874	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! I would like to refer to Mr Mückstein's request for the notification and publication of infections by hospital germs and I would like to return to your comments, Mrs Mückstein. They suggested that with two million hospital shots, about 120,000 people are expected to be infected with hospital germs. According to statistics, 5 percent of these people – at least 6,000 people – die from the direct consequences. These are, of course, figures that must give us some thought and, in view of which we have to take action together to prevent these infections in hospitals. There is a European Centre for the Prevention and Control of Diseases, which states that approximately 20 to 30 percent of these infections could be avoided if hygiene rules and control systems were complied with. And that is exactly where our all-party request is based, because we assume that the system that exists in Austria needs to be unified and further developed. The hospitals are already obliged to carry out the monitoring of hospital germs according to a recognised state of science, There are only different systems in Austria, and there is no obligation to report to the Federation. The proposal we have jointly agreed on in the Committee and will hopefully decide together today is aimed, together with the partners in the target control health, at standardising the reporting systems in the hospitals and, in particular, at developing a transparent and improved data situation. I think this is a very important request with regard to patient safety and, of course, also with regard to the safety of the staff in the hospitals.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e14916	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Kumpitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e14937	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. A view into the Internet is sufficient to be able to make a picture of the rainy trade in cannabis seeds. For example, Sensi Seeds offers a wide range of hemp seeds. The fact that customers not only buy cannabis seeds for legal purposes can be seen from a current customer review. With the evaluation of price/performance with four out of five stars, a customer named Peacemaker is very satisfied. After some technical explanations, he finally comes up with the following: You first get the feeling that it doesn't work, but then it keeps rising and leading to a funny high, which finally ends up with the necessary bed difficult. So far, so good, so illegal. The company Seeds2go is particularly business-oriented. This encourages the distribution of hemp seeds by means of an automatic system. Thus, customers have the option of legally acquiring more than 290 species of seeds at five locations in Austria, which is because the cultivation of plants until flowering is basically not punishable. This type of anonymous sale of hemp seed is an incentive or an incentive for some potential customers to try to grow and also consume it themselves. But even worse: One could also come up with the idea of producing illegal drugs and dealing with them. The fact is that the illegal cultivation of hemp is constantly increasing in both indoor and outdoor installations and that the quality of THC – that is the intoxicating part of the hemp – is constantly improving. As a member of the National Criminal Office of Styria, I can tell you on the basis of assurances that this is a fact. [[Call at the SPÖ:Hat’s g’s taste?]] - I don't think that's funny. [[Abg. Kickl: (in the direction of SPÖ pointing) Then a few think back to the youth!]] According to § 52 para. In so far as it is necessary for reasons of public safety, public health and the protection of young people, the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs, 3 of the Trade Regulations, the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs, has to decide by regulation that certain goods must not be sold by automatic means. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This requirement is unquestionably given: Not only does this anonymous automatic sale pose a risk of seduction to drug use, it can also lead to consumer habit and use stronger drugs. A study showed that young people between the ages of 12 and 17 who take cannabis take 85 times more frequently to cocaine than those who do not. Much too often, in the course of my professional career, I had to experience how drug addicts were killed – not to mention the suffering and the calamity they themselves suffered and fed up with the family. That's why my appeal is: Let us not allow it to be completely anonymous to acquire or consume drugs or even to deal with them! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e14998	Next speaker: Madam President, I should like to thank you for your support. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e15020	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I, too, refer to the prohibition of the automatic sale of cannabis seeds in my statements on TOP 11. The current legal situation – the colleague has already mentioned it – is that the sale of seeds and seedlings is allowed – which is basically logical, since the hemp is a very valuable raw material, which is used, for example, for textile fibres, for pharmaceuticals and for cosmetic products – but only to the flowering because, as has already been said, it is derived from the flowering of THC, a provocative substance. It must be pointed out when selling to over 18-year-olds that, of course, it can only be used for legal purposes. The result is a somewhat curious situation: A shop operator who has properly sold his seeds and seedlings was accused by the prosecutor's office because some of his customers have not only produced a textile product, for example, but have actually used the plants in the indoor-growing operation for their own use. This Swiss company, to which you have referred, I think, and which is also mentioned in the application, has just found the way out to switch to machines, because there are no persons that can be accused. The e-card or identity card or a driver's license also ensures that the age is appropriate, i.e. one has to be over 18 years old, which is also very positive, because one simply has to be careful not to be young people. I understand the concerns of the responsible, but no matter how you stand on this issue, one thing is certain: The Minister for Health is not the right contact, because the establishment of machines falls within the responsibility of the Minister for Economic Affairs. Therefore, there is also an allocation of the request to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, which we of course support.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e15057	The next item is the speech by Mr Schmid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e15078	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! My topic is health insurance. Different professional groups make different contributions to health insurance and to different health insurance institutions. This results in a non-insignificant administrative and cost burden – mainly at the expense of the insured and taxpayers. On the other hand, the Liberals have repeatedly called for innovations in this respect for a system change, with the aim of reducing this administrative burden to an acceptable minimum and using the resulting cost savings in favour of the contributors. It is not understandable that benefits and contributions are measured or provided differently in accordance with the professional groups, the insurance institutions and the federal states. It is high time to bring this inequality treatment to a common denominator. A merger of the cash registers per state constitutes a minimum requirement for an overdue reduction of the administration. Health insurance contributions are additional wage costs. [[Abg. Should we abolish the health insurance?]] A corresponding reduction in the contribution from administrative simplification is a targeted contribution to the reduction of wage costs, without any necessary reduction in performance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e15109	Next speaker: Mr Schopf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e15130	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! My dear! Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to focus briefly on social security and social security schemes. I would like to start with a question to Mr Karlsböck of the FPÖ – unfortunately he is no longer here – who has said today, among other things, why a merger is actually necessary. He said that the health insurance funds and social security funds in Austria were a self-service shop. They would be led by people who are not good enough. There are no top forces. Ladies and gentlemen! He knows exactly what services are provided there. The question is therefore: Why does he do this here and make the employees in the health insurance companies bad? – I claim that top forces are active in the health insurance companies. I claim that we have great doctors, a great nursing staff and, above all, very dedicated staff in the field of administration. Ladies and gentlemen, the regional health insurance companies, including the health insurance providers, are very close to the people, are very close to the insured and, above all, very close to their needs. That's important, and that's good. I hope it will remain that way in the future. The number of health insurance providers hardly plays a role in the costs. I said a few weeks ago: In the field of health insurance, about 3 percent of the budget is needed for the administration, and 97 percent of the benefits are directly reduced to the insured. [[Abg. Kickl: That's just the bill inside!]] I compare with the Federal Republic of Germany because comparisons with Germany are constantly being made here. In Germany, 5 percent is required for the administration, and only 95 percent of the benefits go to the insured. Recently, the German Court of Auditors published an interesting study stating that due to the mergers that have now been carried out in Germany in health insurance, administrative costs are expected to be not lower, but – on the contrary! – get higher. Ladies and gentlemen! I think the same would be the case in Austria. Mr Loacker of the NEOS said in the Committee, but even today in the plenary session, that a summary of all insured persons in a health insurance fund would be more solid. In this context, a question to NEOS – and this is important – is: We all know that the social security institution of the industrial economy has a comprehensive self-esteem. We also know, however, that there are generally no restraints in the area's health telephone. Mr Loacker – he is not here either, but perhaps he can be executed – a specific question to you: Do you really want to abolish self retention when the health insurance companies are grouped together, just as we did in the dental clamps for children? Or do you want to extend what I suppose to you, to all insured persons and to all benefits? When we discussed the motion for a resolution on tooth joints for children and decided to abolish the retention there, NEOS was the only group in this House who voted against it. In the end, NEOS are in favour of self-holding in dental clamps for children. This is not all right, especially for us as a Socialist Group, this is not all right. We continue to reject self-retainy in the field of health insurance.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e15167	Next speaker: Mr Dr. Franz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e15188	Mr President. Minister! High house! I am voting in favour of the Greens' motion for a resolution on psychopharmacology in nursing homes. I am saying that I consider this proposal to be purely alarming and bureaucratic. This is nothing but an expression of the green spirit of regulation. Why? - I'll explain that to you now. We have about 75 000 citizens in hospital care. Of these, about 70 percent have cognitive disorders, which are disturbances in the sense of depression, dementia, breakdowns, behavioural disorders and so on. These require, in part, intensive medication as well as medical and nursing care. I think it would be more useful once from Parliament to thank the staff, the caregivers and the doctors who take on the hard work of sacrificing themselves in this profession in nursing homes for these 75 000 people, as constantly wanting to introduce new regulations and to attract new legal forced jackets to the staff there. That's what I think I'm doing. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] I know your request is based on a report by the Volksanwälte. The Volksanwälte are a necessary facility. However, the lawyers have also made themselves famous in this question with a questionable approach, for they have produced studies from England, published them and killed them in Austria. In my opinion, this cannot be done because these were different studies with different ways of access. In Austria there is only one study, a Vorarlberger study dealing with this problem. It has also been found that there may be an inadequate prescription practice in some of the patients. However, in order to build a new law and regulation, I do not think that it is right and not targeting, as has been said, for medical staff to cross a forced jacket. We already have such a huge defensive and defense medicine that causes enormous costs. Anyone who works in medicine and care is already with one foot in the criminal, because the desire and the spirit of regulation are so great. Therefore: Please rely on more training, more self-reliance and even more natural and human medicine and care! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e15243	Next speaker: Mr Ing. Vogl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e15264	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mrs Verschlag pointed out the competence of the Ministry of Economic Affairs in relation to the hemp seed machines and explained everything very well in terms of content. Maybe a point: Unfortunately, it is no longer true that there is an access control system; since the e-card has been blocked for these machines due to the criticism of social insurance, no longer legitimised. Only signposts at the entrance point out that entry for under 18 year olds is prohibited. If you look at how fast this system is expanding in Austria – currently five locations, more are in planning – you can not only assume that gardeners grow a little hemp or these plants are important for hemp products, but there is quite the suspicion that abuse is being carried out. I think we should really try to restrict this.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e15291	Next speaker: Mr Kucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e15313	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to take up briefly today the subject of information obligation, the obligation of confidentiality regarding tuberculosis law. This has already been discussed very intensively today. The most important thing is to help the affected patient quickly and competently. This is happening in Austria. This is, I believe, also a sign of the quality of our health system. I have just discussed with colleagues Franz, who said that in practice this disease is well-healable and very rare in the event of appropriate treatment. The question we have discussed today is: Do you make the cases or even patient names public or not? How do you deal with this? Tuberculosis law clearly norms this. It is based on a duty of secrecy, says that it is not allowed to pass on known circumstances, in particular the persons, their personal, economic or other circumstances. The obligation of confidentiality should only be abolished in certain cases, namely the interest of public health care. It is therefore up to the health authorities to create a fair balance between a public information claim and protection and respect for private life. [[Abg. Kickl: This is true in other areas too!]] Of course, it is particularly true when it comes to children and young people that they do not go into the paper and find themselves there. That is exactly the case in Vienna – the woman minister has already described this today –: In June, a school has become known, and suddenly all students have been confronted with what is not a pleasant situation when children who can't even fight for it, for example, when the woman in the canteen says she's afraid to sell, or the sports ground is no longer available to the children at all. I think that's why it's very important to help. That's what happened. The health authorities have given rise to all measures. Of course, all those concerned have been contacted directly. They've been examined. There was also an investigation in an X-ray bus. It was very important that these measures were taken, but this also shows the tension between public information, interest in the cases and, of course, protection of private life. We will therefore not support Mrs Belakovich-Jenewein's request.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e15351	No one has made any mention of this. The debate is closed. Does one of the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We therefore come to the votes which I shall take separately from each of the Committee's proposals. Vote on agenda item 8: Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 814 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Agenda item 9: The Committee on Health's request to take note of its report 815 of the additions to the motion for a resolution1330/A(E). Whoever is for this, please give a sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. vote on the resolution annexed to the Committee's report 815 of the Supplements on the collection and reporting systems on infections acquired in hospitals. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. (E 111.) Vote on agenda item 10: Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 816 of the supplements relating to the motion for a resolution 999/A(E). Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. vote on the resolution on antibiotic resistance annexed to the Committee's report 816. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 112.) Agenda item 11: Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 817 of the supplements. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[Call the SPÖ: The Rasinger doesn't look very happy!]] I accept Amendment No 1173/A(E) to the Committee on Economic and Industrial Affairs. Vote on agenda item 12: Proposal from the Health Committee to take note of its report 818 of the supplements. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. [[19:03:00]] 13. Point Report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the Government Template (800 D.B._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Climate Change Act and the Emissions Certificate Act 2011 (804 d.b.) 14. Point report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on Amendment No 895/A(E) by Mr Ulrike Weigerstorfer, Members and colleagues on 'The greening of the roof as a simple, cost-effective climate policy measure' (805 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e15455	We now come to points 13 and 14 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. First speaker: Mrs. Dr. Winter. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e15482	Mr President. Minister Rupprechter! Ladies and gentlemen. As the budget has moved like a red thread through all the previous speeches of the other Members, of course I also have to say a few words about it. I mean, it's not just a red thread, it's actually the red figures going through it, because 85 percent of GDP as foreign debt, i.e. government debt abroad, that's quite a horror. You can't deny that. There is little more to Euphoria, positive attitude and similar. The fact that the Minister of Finance is missing billions is quite clear to us. A solution approach might be to impose tax-advanced government bonds, the savings ratio as such would be present. That would be the first step. My second question – but that will be added tomorrow – would be: Why do you always make this chamberalistic continuation of the budget? Why don't you go to a Zero-Base budgeting? - But more about it tomorrow. But what really upset me was and was that the word “environment” in these 30 pages of the budget speech did not happen at all. Njet, not at all! Dead! Neither in the speech nor in this paper. They're already wondering: Where is the thought, where is the future to be found in this budget? Thank God, I have to say that there is agriculture, forestry and the water industry, which has been thought of at €2.1 billion, but there is only a need to look at the EU, and then we know why these areas have been considered: because otherwise we cannot withdraw the EU's funding and can't recover it. I kind of came up with the thought: Why do we not put together the Environment Committee and the Committee on Agriculture? Perhaps that would be a solution to the big problem. Now I really want to come to the issues of the two agenda items. The first point I would like to address is the request made by Mrs Weggenstorfer. You know, Mrs Colleague – and I mean that quite honestly and openly now, as I say: I think that's a very great request. It is a request that represents a little bit of this healing world – which is to be taken quite positively now – no less and no more than my request regarding wild bees. I understand that people want illusions and that they have to sell illusions in politics. I would have liked to agree, but why we could not finally agree was quite simple, because there is already that. If you inform yourself, there has been a “guide – roof greening in Vienna” since 2009, which has been published by environmental advice in Vienna. There is something like this in almost all the federal states. These guides all have the same positive content and highlight the positive of a roof greening, which is also stated in your request: whether it be from water cleaning, from pollutant filter, from air improvement, from noise reduction, or from thermal insulation to optical beauty, which such roofs then have. The problem is that there is already that. The second thing, however, that would have been interesting in this request, because all of these structural initiatives – thus the information and the promotion of this – are country-related – is whether the federal government would have participated in it or not. As an upgrade, I would like to add something. I don't know if They know this saying, but hundreds of water said – and he is in a way a pioneer as far as these roof greens are concerned –: The greening of roofs is the reconciliation of man and nature. I believe that this is a very positive saying that can be applied to your request. The next point is a federal law that amends the Climate Change Act and the Emissions Certificate Act. All my interlocutors will probably highlight the benefits of these changes, then it will probably be better if I explain to you why we have not already been able and wanted to accept this law in committee. We could not agree to this change of law, because we believed in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and decided unanimously that we do not support measures by the government that are in any way linked to a further financial burden on the population. Since everything that has to do with CO2 and emissions certificates is very much a burden on people's wallets, we are against it. That's true, too... [[Abg. Brunner: That's not true!]] – It’s clear that you’re telling me that’s not true, but that’s the difference in ideology. The second is that we absolutely do not want to see the drivers as a milk cow of the nation. We are – and there has been a request in Parliament for a long time – in every way for the promotion of renewable energy in this context, but not so that we say that there should be a peuniary allocation or a peuniary preference, but rather something completely reversed. We believe that the rate of VAT on renewable energy should simply be halved. I think that people would be very positive about it and would have something of it; yes, that would be something that has a positive effect, even on the money exchange of people. The fact is – and I want to emphasize this “fact is” because it is somehow a bit of a part of me – the reason why we are against it is that we ask ourselves: To whom does this mass media dogma benefit that climate change has been caused purely by human hands? Cui bono? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nice to meet you.]] I think three categories in this world are quite certain: This is nuclear energy, which actually produces CO2-free electricity, then it is the large genetic engineering group – Monsanto – that produces climate-resisting plants and thirdly, it is certainly large banks that are trading with the emission certificates. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brunner]] We did not have Mr Dombrovskis, who is the EU Commissioner responsible for Euro and Social Dialogue, here. Apart from the fact that he has given us a message that we should or should have – and all the Members who have been in it have heard that – put up the actual retirement age rapidly, that would simply be a good gesture – he can't order it – towards the rest of the EU community, he has also laid his heart on us and explains that climate targets that are likely to be set in Paris are very likely to be implemented. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Plessl]] My question was then what the basis of his decisions or the EU's decisions on CO2 emission certificates and climate targets actually lead to. Of course, his answer was: IPCC, the world climate. Now we know – and that's not mine; I'll tell you right away who that is – that IPCC is a profoundly political body. Francis Crick, a Nobel Medical Prizewinner who lives in America and is basically positive to the results of the IPCC, has, for example, made a press release one or two days ago, which he believes we – and that he probably means all the politicians in the world – simply do not understand what is in it in these research results, or that we are unable to grasp this spiritually, because it is such a chewing-up word in professional terms. He even claims that works like the silent post: What comes in front doesn't come out at the last back. And he means – and that is very important to me – that this is a bureaucratic fog. – So much for it; and there are infinitely many scientists who leave the IPCC and then lose no positive word about it. [[Call the Greens.]] I think that this should not be the basis – or at least a very difficult basis to question – for a decision that causes the population to lose substantial tax money. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e15555	The next speaker was Mr Höfinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e15578	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! High house! So I'm horrified, Mrs Winter: I rarely heard so compact incompetent statements. You have to congratulate almost on that, but in a negative sense. It's incredible! [[As a result of this, the European Parliament has adopted a number of amendments to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, including those tabled by the European Parliament and the Council. Pock.]] So this is a world conspiracy and a blinding like it. If you only open your eyes a little and look through our country and beyond the European continent and then go out into the whole world, you can see how dramatically the climate changes, and that has many causes. In view of those theories that you always give of yourself – that is the great arch of the Ice Age, which is now developing back again – or when I think of the summer talk of your party leader, which was more than embarrassing about this question, I have to say: Please put in a new name. Once you're five minutes old, and you're really dedicating yourself to scientists who are intensely dealing with this topic to finally come up with the current state of science! This is: There has always been change in the climate, but if we look at the curve of the last 150 years, then we see it is more than dramatic and it will continue. We have to react now. The measures have already been launched and need to be continued with utmost care and importance, otherwise a disaster would be a threat to us. [[I should like to thank the rapporteurs of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats for their support.]] If we only take the newspapers, the reports of the last months, in which a new record was reported almost weekly – a temperature record on several days or longer periods, a dryness record on the one hand, and on the other hand a record of intense precipitation on the other – this is a sign of a dramatic change. They said that measures we are setting for climate protection cost money. Do you know what the measures will cost us to address all these natural disasters if we do not finally create the great turnaround? – Then we really have costs that we can no longer afford, which must be overcome by the taxpayer who is directly affected by them! That is why it is important to really set the course. I am very glad that we have already achieved a lot in Austria. When it comes to the CO2 balance, we know that renewable energies can be a great answer here, and this has a multiple advantage in our country. We have thanks to God for many resources that we can use. Our country is rich in water, we have the wind, we have the sun, we have renewable raw materials that we can use. This is a colorful mix, which also takes more and more. And we can not only do something good for climate and weather, no, we also create value added here in our own country, we create jobs. We make ourselves independent of fossil energy sources and much more. I do not understand, Mrs Winter, how you can be so blinded on this question. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and MEPs of the Greens.]] On the subject before us, the Climate Protection Act and the Emissions Certificate Act: Yes, this is another step to finally get to the destination on this trip. We have a commitment to reduce our emissions by 16 percent by 2020 compared with 2005 in the international and European emission trading systems. [[Abg. Deimek: More American jobs...!]] This is also an adjustment in the sectoral areas. Some will read the tables and say: Here you can suddenly read bigger numbers! – That’s not true in the way we need to be careful: There has been a re-evaluation and the starting value has also been recalculated, therefore also a higher number as regards the level requirement. All in all, however, this does not affect our ambition. The goal remains the same as we put it on track. I should also like to thank the Minister very much for his work at European level. By 2030, 2050, these goals have already been extended, and there is a champion. We could not always achieve everything, but we have shown that we can provide intermediate services that we are on the right track, and I think that this draft law, which is here, should also be approved today.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e15633	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Brunner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e15654	Mr President. Mr. Environment Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear spectators who are still watching us! We have now reached an environmental day-by-day point, but I would nevertheless like to take a brief look at the budget speech of this morning, because the budget and climate finance are very essential for climate protection too. Climate financing will be a crucial issue at the Paris climate conference, and we environmental policymakers need commitments from the Minister of Finance to be able to get something orderly for climate protection in Paris. French President Hollande recently said that without the 100 billion dollars a year promised by the industrial nations to the developing countries from 2020 on, there would be no agreement at the Paris climate summit. The Minister of Finance is not here now; in his speech, the words “climate”, “energy”, “environment” have not occurred once. So I'm asking: How forward-looking can this budget be at all? Her place of business was obviously not taken into account, Minister. I find it quite terrifying that in the 21st century a Minister of Finance At the end of the century, climate protection and climate financing were not at all responsible. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] I therefore propose the following, and I hope that we will be able to achieve a positive outcome in the next few months. [[Quoted print version removed]] But now on the real issue, namely climate protection. Mrs Winter, I can't see you now, but I think it's quite terrifying – right, there you are! – that we in the Austrian Parliament in 21st. In the 19th century, discuss whether there is climate change or not and whether man has contributed to it or not. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek]] [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Winter and Mr Deimek.]] I don't want to leave it that way before I get to the point. I find this quite contradictory that you say you are for the expansion of renewable energies, but not for climate protection. I mean, that can only go hand in hand. Ordinary climate change targets are important if renewable energies are to be expanded. [[Abg. Deimek:... save! ... the Chinese...!]] Every study – not by environmental organisations or greens, but by economists – says [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Deimek]] It is more favourable to make climate protection and invest in climate action than to eliminate the damage. Austria will be 8 billion € – in the year! – pay for climate damage. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] Do you want to answer that? - Not me! I want us to invest in climate protection now. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Pock.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Deimek.]] The fact is: Climate change is taking place. We have a record heat summer behind us, also in Austria; agriculture has suffered massively below, melting glaciers. [[Abg. Deimek: Seize Voest...!]] And if you look a little over the edge of the plate, you know that people are fighting for survival, that island states are going down. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Deimek.]] If we do not act, there will be 150 million refugees by the end of the century. I'm just asking representatives of a party like yours: How will you deal with this situation? Have you ever thought about that? [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Scherak.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] But now on the subject: Two laws are agreed here. We will also agree with both laws, but because they are simply insufficient... Ah, excuse me. Don't agree. We're both going to reject it. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] It's too early, Minister. [[Calls and calls between Deimek and Weninger.]] We will reject both legislative proposals because they are simply insufficient for adequate climate protection. We reject the Emissions Certificate Act because there would have been a one-time opportunity to make funds available to the budget for climate change, environmental protection and climate protection. – This does not happen, obviously the Austrian legislator and the Austrian Federal Government do not want it; that is completely incomprehensible. The second law, the Climate Protection Act, we reject it, because it sends a signal to the outside: Austria is not doing anything in climate protection. The signal that this Climate Change Act sends out is: We're staying at 1990's. As far as 1990 was concerned, we should have already reduced greenhouse gases, and we have not done so. The goal for 2020 in Austria is so “ambitionated” – under quotation marks – that it means: back to the start! And we don't have to go with Greens. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] The Minister for Finance, although he has not mentioned climate change, has said decisive words today. He said that every day we wait for implementation costs even more money. This also applies to the climate: The later we start, the more expensive it will be. In particular, I ask those who represent the economic interests here: If we have a starting point for a company here and here is a destination, which way do you go then? – Every logical thinking person tries to go a linear path. [[Making a corresponding gesture with your hands]] What you decide here today, as proposed by the Federal Minister, means: We do as we used to, and then there has to be an abrupt cut. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] This is not socially compatible, it is bad for the climate and it will also cost us extremely much money. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: It's not economic either!]] What do we need? – We still have a month and a half to the climate conference in Paris. I will try to get us into this one-and-a-half It is a matter for the Commission and the Council to take a decision on a proposal from the Commission to the Council for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating I think there is a need for strong signals before the climate conference so that there will be a success there. It needs commitments and keeping promises on financing. There is a need for clear signals as to greenhouse gas reduction targets, and we need – and that is why we will have to work especially after the Paris climate conference – to implement and do homework. The Minister of Finance has also said today that we have the choice between an elaborate repair and waiting for engine damage. This may not be an appropriate comparison for climate policy, but it is very striking: We have to act now. We need to change the climate and energy system in order to face climate change. That's not where I'm going today. [[Abg. Deimek: How do you do this in the... production? Magic?! Green leaves...?- Oh, my God!]] I hope we can create the turnaround in the next one and a half months, and I am deeply convinced: Austria needs an independent, strong and committed Ministry of the Environment, Energy and Climate Change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e15855	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Brunner is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e15946	Next speaker: Mr Wenninger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e15967	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The last time, I think, Mr Winter's remarks have been discussed in detail not only here in the house, but also in the media. Since now a barber is still to be done, a certain art and testifies to stability. When Mr Winter says that climate protection is not a question of ideologies, I tell you that it is really not a question of ideologies, but also no question of world conspiracy. Faith You are simply the international expert, and if you cannot or do not want to, believe the Holy Father, or at least be willing to enter into a content discussion, because your statements are really a shame to the Austrian Parliament in the 21st century. ==References====External links== [[I would like to say a few words on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats who have spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]] On the comments by Mr Brunner: I appreciate the commitment, and I also believe that we can succeed in making a request in good time before the Paris climate conference – now I would have said soon: All Party Proposals – which most parties in this House support, jointly formulate and decide. I hope that we will soon have the opportunity to come to Paris on the basis of the requests currently being put forward, in order to take a strong political signal from the National Council, just as we have already succeeded in the anti-CFC problem several times. I am willing to negotiate this on the part of the SPÖ also in the field of climate protection. But the Austrians already have to say the following: We will meet the climate targets for 2020. We have committed ourselves to meeting the climate targets by 2030 within the European Union. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brunner.]] And we will also have to meet the climate targets by 2050. However, we do not need a linear path of fulfillment, as you represent it, but a variety of measures. [[New call of the abg. Brunner.]] Today's law is heading in this direction. This is a very concrete question, Mr Pirklhuber, of how to meet the individual sectoral objectives, in the areas of transport, waste management, industry and agriculture. [[Abg. Brunner: They go back to 1990...!]] We decide today – unfortunately without the votes of the Greens. I would be very pleased if we could take this signal that you are always calling for from the Greens for a positive climate policy to Paris. [[Abg. Pirklhuber: We cannot support unambitioned goals, Mr Wenninger, you know that!]] Austria is making its contribution, we will also make a financial contribution. The Minister has already announced in Lima the 25 or 50 million US dollars for the Green Climate Fund. The reaction of the Greens was of course to demand a doubling. When we said 25 million US dollars, the Greens demanded 50 million US dollars. When we hired the 50 million, they said now we need 100 million US dollars. I think the proposal that the NEOS will make is very sympathetic. We're not going to deal with the $50 million. I believe that a contribution, which should be on the European average, would be good for Austria. I'm not going to call it a sum now, but I'm sure he'll have to be significantly over 50 million. In this sense, I would like to have a debate that allows the Minister – and thus Austria – to have a good appearance in Paris, that we should jointly promote climate protection. [[Abg. Brunner: Did you find it in the budget? Not me!]] [[Abg. Pirklhuber: We are looking together! We're looking!]] – Yes, we are negotiating the budget, Mrs Colleague, over the next three or four weeks, and by then there will be some political discussion. I hope the Greens will also bring their commitment to the budget debate.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e16062	Next speaker: Mr Pock. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e16083	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Appreciate Seers and Advisors! I would like to go into the present bill in advance and argue why we support it and where the big difference lies compared to the view of the Greens. In essence, this has already been partially criticised by my previous speakers – that it is not a linear flattening in the savings of emissions. That is, we now assume that the savings remain constant for a longer period and then grow larger. Why is this imperative? – If we are now setting new targets for each sector, if we also set certain annual targets, then it is necessary that planning is first, second, implementation and thirdly, that the effects can be achieved. One cannot actually go from one day to the other into the reduction. [[Abg. Brunner: But that means you should start earlier, right?]] At least this is not possible in all sectors. We have considered whether the objectives set are actually feasible, and NEOS is convinced that it is not a problem in the area of the buildings, nor in the waste management and in agriculture, and that we are already valid in the field of energy and industry in reducing emissions. However, where there is a problem – we agree with the Greens too – is in the field of transport, especially of individual transport. From today's point of view, it doesn't look like we're reaching the goals, and we don't see ambitious measures here either. There were also very ambitious speeches and interviews on the part of the Minister for the Environment, almost a year and a half ago, about electromobility or the field of individual transport and about the possibility of re-establishing them with entirely new technologies in energy research. In this area, there has not been much progress over the last one and a half years, but there must be much more so that these objectives can actually be achieved by 2020. However, I would also like to address another area, the question of where, obviously, with the exception of the Freedom Party, we are going with Austrian environmental policy. The main issue is that climate change is not an Austrian phenomenon and, of course, we cannot solve the problem alone within Austria. However, the argument that savings are being used up at the other end of the world, so to speak, is not valid because each state is in fact responsible for contributing to a part of the fight against climate change, and it is indeed the Western states, which have greater potential to contribute a part – through savings on the one hand and through financial support from those states that actually feel the impact of climate change even today, on the other hand. [[Abg. Pirklhuber:... Weizsäcker read!]] And here I come to another subject, namely the already mentioned Green Climate Fund, which is supposed to be worth 100 billion dollars and which essentially aims to reach out to all those states that already feel the impact of climate change very massively, and to support them in preparing, on the one hand, to eliminate the damage, but on the other hand, to structure the economy differently, to organise the coastal sections somehow differently et cetera. There are a lot of measures that can and could be taken by this Green Climate Fund. We have so far strongly criticized the fact that Austria has so far wanted to participate with a maximum of 25 million dollars. The Minister has spoken of a further 25 million dollars to come from the economy and the federal states. It seems as if the decision had already been made or as if the success is just ahead of the door. In our opinion, the 50 million dollars are still too few. Comparable countries, such as Switzerland or Finland, do more – in part significantly more, in part a little more. Our concern is that Austria is making a contribution that is also recognised within Europe. That is why I have prepared the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] What is Switzerland currently throwing into the scales? That's about 70 million dollars in my knowledge at the moment. So we're still about 20 million dollars away from this goal, maybe even 30 million if the Swiss increase again. However, today we have heard this in the budget speech – the money in the state fund is very scarce. That is why we have already tabled an appropriate proposal for a longer period, which also describes how we want to finance this increase, with the end of the subsidisation of coal streaming. That means: Currently, the Republic still pays almost €70 million each year in subsidies to companies in the energy sector that process coal into electricity. This form of energy generation is massively harmful to the environment and harmful to health, and if we stop this subsidy, we can also take measures for climate protection. I think this is important if we argue that we do not want to spend any extra tax money, and if at the same time we argue that climate protection is important to us. At the time, at the initiative of the People's Party, we have already offered NEOS – but unfortunately it has been sent again – that we are together, not in the ministries, but in fact in the House, the environmental spokespersons, as well as the financial speakers, and we are considering together where there are savings measures in the field of environmental policy and where we can make a contribution ourselves, which will then be used to finance climate protection. That would be the right approach if we were already talking about a tight budget, but I miss it very much with all the other parties in the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e16150	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Pock is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e16220	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Lettenbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e16242	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) As we all know, Austria has committed itself to reducing its greenhouse gas emissions by 16 percent by 2020 compared with 2005. In order to achieve this very ambitious objective, it is necessary to adapt the Climate Protection Act and the Emissions Certificate Act, as is apparent from the present proposal, and this should also be supported. Europe has significantly reduced its greenhouse gas emissions in recent years and is now only about 10 percent of emissions worldwide. The European Union is a global leader in climate protection, and Austria will also make every effort to achieve its 2020 climate change target. Mrs Brunner, it is not all right – and I would like to point this out – that all the efforts made by the Federal Government, the state governments and many other players in Austria to achieve this goal are simply wiping away from the table and saying that nothing has happened in Austria, yes, there is even a step backwards. [[Abg. Brunner: I didn't say that! I said... 1990!]] That's not all right. I should also like to remind you that it was the Federal Government that committed 40 percent of the EU's emissions of climate-damaging gases by 2030. Ladies and gentlemen, Austria's climate protection ambitions are at the highest level in Europe. In the near future, there will be an ambitious programme of action from the Federal Government and the Länder across all areas, and I am convinced that the implementation of the Energy Efficiency Act will make a further important contribution. I would now like to speak to Paris and to the UN Climate Change Conference to be held in the near future: All efforts are being made to achieve a globally binding climate agreement, as global efforts are urgently needed in order to effectively operate climate change. I can support this request with a few figures: While the annual investments of the energy-intensive industry in Europe have fallen by 15 percent, they have increased by 11 percent in Japan and even 13 percent in the USA. A global treaty is crucial here, especially in order to provide European companies with the necessary investment security. Only a global agreement prevents production from being outsourced in countries with lower requirements on a unilaterally rising environmental impact, thus increasing emissions as a whole. No one has anything from European single entrances and lighthouse projects – not the unemployed and not the economy. This does not have a positive impact on the international competitiveness of the EU and, above all, on the climate. We must, ladies and gentlemen, do our homework and actively meet climate change. However, there is also a need to act responsibly in terms of jobs and the economy. The Federal Government is taking this responsibility permanently and prudently, and the members of the House are also warmly invited here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e16278	Next speaker: Mrs VOYER (S). — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e16300	Mr President. Minister! So I have to say, it's very interesting: If we have followed this debate a little bit, we have seen that on the one hand, we are more or less united in whatever extent we need to do something against climate change, that we must operate and force climate change. – Yes, and the proposal we have tabled is actually going exactly in this direction, and the measures proposed here are still in place. We ask, in particular, that we simply promote national initiatives and strengthen the awareness of the population a little more – and this request is, of interest, rejected! But now you don't have to explain this to me, but to the people outside. It's about the roof greening. The roof greening, which is perfectly correct, is, of course, in country competence, and yes, there are already some individual funding in some federal states, but we do see the need for a pooling and uniforming of these funding. It is important to assess whether the money used has produced something up to now, and if so, what it is used and how the roof greening promotions have been generally accepted. It is absolutely necessary, from our point of view, to raise awareness of the population, because the practice shows that the builders and also the architects act very little in this direction. Also, the promotions, if available, are usually not accepted, and that is exactly what this proposal aims at: simply create awareness, because we know that there is still air up. It is a huge advantage for the people, for the wallet, it is a cost-effective and climate-politically meaningful solution, which is actually very easy. I would like to add a few points of approach. Climate protection: The photosynthesis of the plants alone binds CO2, which ultimately also counteracts the greenhouse effect and thus also contributes to climate protection; interestingly, this is also an EU-recognised technology for the necessary adaptation of climate change in urban areas. Other points: Air improvement, noise protection. So it's a huge theme as far as health is concerned. Green roofs have a strong buffer and cleaning performance. The increased humidity makes the dust much stronger, and this soft surface minimizes the noise. This isn't a greenery or a fine speech now. There are a lot of studies that prove this on a number of occasions. Climate regulation is also a topic of roof greening, which reduces heating and electricity costs. A green roof has a positive effect on the room climate of the living rooms below, because the evaporation performance of the plant layers ensures cooling in summer, whereas in winter the green roof surface acts as a kind of ecological thermal insulation. I think we can all remember this hot summer very well. If it had been a few degrees cooler in the apartments, we would all have been very grateful. A roof greening also produces an incredibly intelligent rainwater management. We always take a lot of money into our hands to organize expansion measures for the channel system. A roof greening reduces 60 to 90 percent of the rainfall or delays it. Wild bees are also a huge theme: We know that in America or Asia, plants are already being tried to pollinate artificially in order to simply ensure the food chain for the human being. A green roof is a habitat for flora and fauna, especially for the so important wild bees, and also has a huge effect on the sealing of the soils. We know exactly, in Austria the area of the city of Salzburg is installed every year. We must therefore urgently take measures to counter this. What is easier than a roof greening? There is Studies that prove, prove and show that 45 percent of the roof surfaces in Vienna would be greenable. As regards the fear expressed by Mr Weninger in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, that both photovoltaics and additional roof greening are being promoted, I would like to say: If one had worked towards transparency, these concerns would also be absolutely in vain. Competition of roof greening and photovoltaics has also been addressed in the Committee. That's not an argument! What's the point? Either or not to the debate, because it is both possible! So these are arguments that I can't leave in the room. We often say we want to be a pioneer in Austria – only, we can't do it at all! I would like to mention to our neighbours Germany: They manage to implement 8 million square meters of roof greening per year. These are numbers, given that I have to say that we are a little behind. Unfortunately, the request is rejected today, but, as I said, you do not have to explain this to me, please explain it to the people outside! At the same time, please do not talk about the urgent need to do something against climate change! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] A brief item on the agenda 13: I would like to sum up briefly our criticisms on this novel of the Emissions Certificate Act or the Climate Change Act and explain why we will not go along with it today. As a result of the changed calculation base, Austria has to show a lower savings in CO2 equivalents in order to achieve its mandatory reduction by 16 percent. But that's all a trickery. Even if, compared to the greens in general, we are more likely to set realistic targets, we are here in line with their assessment that it is all the more cost-effective for our economy, the sooner we counter it. So, too, we believe that prevention in this area is definitely cheaper than repair. What is absolutely not going on is the following: In our opinion, the government template is not even in conformity with the law, because the financial impact assessment according to § 17 of the Federal Budget Act 2013 is missing, and the Financial Impact Regulation is also being violated. My final sentence: On the occasion of the presentation of the Austrian State Report on Climate Change, the Federal Minister said: “If we want to prevent further global warming, a fundamental change in the interaction between the economy, society and the environment is necessary – everyone must become active and contribute.” – Yes, I give you absolutely right, that’s right, but now the addition comes: If this draft law is our contribution, then this is proof of the usual beautiful weather agency in Austria – a pity!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e16391	Next speaker: Mr Plessl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e16412	Mr President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! My speech refers to the motion for a resolution 895/A(E) by the Stronach team of 25ths. ==References== We have rejected them in committee, that is true, but for quite other reasons. We are certainly for roof greens, there are enough reasons for green roofs, and there are also enough studies in which they are documented, but we also know from experience that it works very well in the federal states and that there are already some very creative projects. There are already fundings in the sovereign area of the federal states. Lower Austria grants additional funding, as well as Vienna or Linz. There is even explicit funding in Linz in the area of roof greening. There are enough possibilities and ideas to perform a roof greening. Especially in the closed, densely built area, this makes sense and is also carried out very often. The point that has not been raised: It's a little more expensive. Of course, certain technical measures need to be complied with, and that is why the cost of setting up them is increasing. It has been referred to, ladies and gentlemen, that we should deal with the resources available sparingly. Land sealing and land use are a major topic in Austria. We have to deal with this very carefully because we are currently around ten football fields per day. Interesting for me as Lower Austrian Members, Mrs Weigerstorfer, is what Stronach left in Lower Austria. I would just like to give you one example: In 1996, some €150 million was set up to build a so-called world ball in Ebreichsdorf; 200 meters in size, permits were necessary, which never came, more than 300 jobs have been envisaged. The fact is, no one job was created. [[Abg. Hagen: Because it prevented the pomp! Let's be honest.]] 350 related hectares have been purchased for this project, and implemented until 2004 only the Magna Racino, a horse-riding track that creates massive problems that take up one sixth of the 350 hectares. 150 jobs have been promised – ten are, I believe, still available! You have been the new boss of Magna Racino since June – I have heard this from newspaper reports, the press has reported it. It is already very interesting when Mr Stronach – the statement is quoted by the “standard” – says: Pipe on nature, I'll build you a new one! - We certainly don't need that. We need a very careful handling of resources. I have briefly looked at the Magna Racino, how much soil sealing there is, and roof greening has not been implemented either. So it would be interesting, my colleague, to reject what you have to say. Perhaps we can first agree that you are doing something for the environment there. Also interesting would be what happens to the 350 hectares in total. What are you doing? Do you want to grow them, do you want to do roof greens? Maybe you can hear a little more about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e16449	The next item is the report by Mr Rauch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e16470	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs. Col. Refuserstorfer, you are asking for an Austrian-wide campaign by the Ministry of the Environment for the Greening of Roofs in your application. Only in advance for the explanation: In Austria, the countries responsible for the construction and spatial planning are the first, i.e. a problem of competence. It is the task of the Land Days and the Land Governments to act in the federal states in the sense of federalism. Some countries and, above all, regions in their regional managements have worked intensively on this subject of land sealing. Above all, the Styria, very precisely the southeastern Styria, has brought out a ground map pointing to the state of the soils, namely in the field of agriculture, which can make a massive contribution to protecting our soils, especially by means of crop rotation and fertilization. Another point that is important, which is essential and which also belongs to, is the degree of sealing in public space. The reuses of buildings and properties are also important. All of this can help protect our soils and our landscape. In Austria, not all Stronach or Sigi Wolf are called, who can afford to green the roofs of their penthouse apartments. [[Abg. Rädler: Or Haselsteiner!]] – Hazelsteiner is also a topic, yes. We will not vote in favour of this request. On today's budget speech by the Minister of Finance, I would like to say that we can assume that there will be massive cuts in the budget and in the funding of the environment. Today, the Federal Minister for Finance has not mentioned with any syllable the environmental policy and the associated necessary budget. Another point I would like to address is: Austria has to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 16 percent by 2020 compared with 2005 due to international and EU climate protection obligations. Another example from the Styria: In the Styria had the ÖVP, Mayor Nagl had planned to set up an environmental zone in Graz. On the other hand, the competent Council of State has expressly spoken out, also in conjunction with the JOANNEUM RESEARCH Research Society, which at the same time mentioned that this environmental zone would cost 1,500 jobs in Graz. Accordingly, the competent Council of State has put in place 44 measures to prevent this environmental zone, also in conjunction with the EU Commission. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What I'd like to say: We are burdening the economy, the companies, and – not to mention – the related labour market situation is no better and cannot relax either. We must not burden the economy or the workers in order to remain competitive for the future! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e16513	Next word: Mrs Diesner-Wais. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e16534	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. The weather does what it wants to do, from flood to drought, as we have experienced this year, is on the agenda. This will also develop, and the greenhouse gases are, of course, a reason for this. I am a forest-fourthly farmer and have experienced this year the dryness in the fields, in the meadows, in the crops and also in the trees themselves. Especially we in agriculture are 80 percent dependent on the weather, and therefore climate protection is of great interest to us. It is good that our Federal Minister for agriculture and climate protection are responsible at the same time, because this makes him feel close to the ground and is willing to do the best in the environmental field. We have already heard that we want to achieve the proposed climate targets by 2020, namely to reduce the 2005 values by 16 percent. This amendment regulates, as it were, the maximum quantities and also the breakdown between sectors. We can now discuss which sector can contribute less or which more to achieving the objectives or whether the objectives are too high or too low, but I think there will always be a gap between ambitious objectives and economic feasibility due to the impact on jobs and also on the cost of housing. This is what the countries have mentioned in their opinions. I believe that environmental policy, which our Federal Minister Rupprechter makes, is the top objective of protecting the climate and at the same time creating new innovative jobs through climate protection, thereby also promoting growth and strengthening our economy. In order to achieve this, clear ambitious goals are necessary, and that is what he has stated. He would also have advocated higher, but they were not enforceable throughout Europe. However, the figures before us show us that the legal figures for reducing emissions and greenhouse gases in Austria are effective. We are in the process of meeting the climate change target. Climate protection is an overall project, everyone can contribute to it, and I therefore ask you to make your personal contribution to it – in the sense of climate protection and in the sense of Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e16580	Mr Willi has now come to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e16601	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I gained a very interesting insight this evening: There's a Nobel Prize candidate in our ranks! It has only so far not been proposed by the liberals for the Nobel Prize; what surprises me. Mrs. Dr. Winter has been here at the speaker's desk before and has said – translated – that thousands of scientists worldwide are mistaken, and the Heads of State and Government of Europe and many in the world outside are also mistaken, because climate change is not triggered by man, that is God-given or controlled by All – or whatever. This knowledge shows: We have a Nobel Prize candidate in our ranks, because she failed than anyone else. [[Abg. Wenninger: Too bad you don't notice!]] – This is your opinion, Mr Commissioner. The facts. Mrs. Dr. Winter, you deny the climate change caused by man, but the fact is that this is what the reports say, and you have not denied it: We depend on the following countries – I quote –: Kazakhstan, Nigeria, Russia, Libya, Azerbaijan, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and Iraq. Of these eight countries, Austria accounts for 95 percent of oil. We know that these are countries with the best-developed democracies, the most stable conditions, the largest GDP revenue, that is, really good countries, and you know as well as I do: These are states where tomorrow anything can be different from today! And precisely on these states, we depend on our energy needs, with our fossil energy needs. We transfer 13 billion € to these states every year – a lot of money! This energy, which we obtain from these countries by €13 billion each year, could also be generated by ourselves. – That is exactly the idea behind what our Environment Minister wants to do, but above all should do. Mr Minister, we have known each other for a long time now, we are from the same federal state, I have to say that you have been an announcement giant so far, in the announcements great, in the implementation of which is still a dwarf, and I wish you would be an implementation giant. [[President Bures takes over the presidency again.]] For example, they are incredibly good at exporting pigs to South Korea or China. Great! I would like to see As you export pigs half to South Korea, you will help to do what Austria has sealed with signature among its predecessors on this government bank, namely that it adheres to the climate agreements it has signed. Austria is lagging behind in Europe, and you are not doing anything about it, but you are making laws and putting them before us, where the goals we should achieve are set in such a way that we can simply lean back for the next five years and simply continue to do so as before. [[Abg. Rädler: That's not true!]] – Well, my colleague, I have looked at it quite carefully. But I'd like to sit up to you, and then we'll look at it together. The fact is, we must reach a very high goal by 2030, we will have a high mountain to climb. What did the Minister do? – Instead of saying, let’s see how we do this in the next – in total – 15 years, he has built up an intermediate station and said, by 2020, let’s go a little bit easier, a little glangl, as we say in Tirol! So the target is about there by 2020, and 2030 we have to be much further up. [[the speaker points out a certain level with his arm]] It'll be a hard tour! - And that's exactly what we Greens don't want. We want a feasible, manageable transition in the reduction of greenhouse gases! [[Abg. Wheelers: All of us!]] All of this – and for that there are good examples across Austria – brought a lot of jobs. We want us no longer to transfer 13 billion to these eight countries, including Azerbaijan and Kazakhstan, but to create domestic jobs with this money. That's our concern. Mr Minister, you were sitting here on the government bank this morning when your colleague Finanzminister Schelling said the following – I quote –: “It takes more pressure and more speed! This is about all our credibility. Because only by the actions are we measured, announcements alone are too little. That's my program." Minister! I'm expecting, and I'm asking you that this will also be your program. In any case, this proposal for a law which you are presenting to us today does not meet these criteria.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e16676	Mr Rupprechter spoke next. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e16698	Madam President. High house! I can predict that I am apologizing for the bad voice – not mood, but voice. I, like Mr Finanzminister, am also working on a gripping infection. I will comment on the report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the legislation on climate protection and the emission certification and on the request of Mrs Weigerstorfer on roof greenery. I will not address the debates on the budget, because we will still have enough time to discuss this very thoroughly in the Committee. However, I can give you a happy message, a happy message that says that “eco-social” has arrived in Europe, because at the hour Wilhelm Molterer was elected by the European Parliament as Managing Director of EFSI, and I will have a discussion with him this week, where we will talk about sustainable projects in the field of climate protection, in the field of energy transition, also about how we can use EFSI for Austria. I think we can already be proud that one of my predecessors and former boss has today been given such a responsible position in Europe. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] High house! The amendment to the Climate Change Act, which you are aware of, has become necessary – we have discussed this very thoroughly and intensively in committee, Mr Brunner – as a new international report format has entered into force in 2015 after the IPCC Panel, which will cause a level shift in the maximum permitted annual limits for Austria. This is now being implemented. Due to the maximum greenhouse gas emissions, in the order of 1 million tonnes, it is not – and we have already discussed this in great detail – the objective, not the target ambition, because the base year 2005 has also been integrated into the methodological adjustment. So, of course, the goal and the ambition level remain true. We have also taken into account the results of the most recent greenhouse gas emissions projections of the Federal Environment Agency and the measures of the 2015 to 2018 Action Programme agreed with the federal states, which I have also announced to you. Today, we can positively sum up the fact that the Austrian greenhouse gas inventory has shown an extremely encouraging development for 2013. In fact, emissions – outside emissions trading – amounted to almost 3 million tonnes of CO2 equivalents below the maximum allowed. And I also expect a similar positive result for 2014. That is, you see – you know that the balance sheet will be in place at the beginning of 2016 – that our course is correct and that the measures are effective. I am also confident that we will be able to achieve our goals in the second Kyoto period by 2020, and it is my ambition to achieve this even without the purchase of appropriate emission and pollution certificates. I think the Federal Environment Agency has shown that we are on the right track. At the same time, of course, we are aware that by 2030, Mrs Brunner and individual speakers, we have also stressed this – a much more ambitious goal will have to be met. You know what negotiating positions Europe has entered into the negotiations with, and we will see what comes out in Paris. I am much more confident today than Lima, that it will actually succeed in bringing a legally binding, comprehensive agreement to the COP21 in Paris. On this basis, we will then have to implement an integrated climate, energy and mobility strategy of the Federal Government, together with the countries, in order to be able to implement the 2030 objectives accordingly. As regards the Emissions Certificate Act, which is also the basis of this Government template, legal certainty will be established for those plant operators who have emission certificates from the JI/CDM projects of the last period on their accounts. ==References====External links== On the basis of this law, it was transferred to the next period and is therefore still used. I think that's just right and good. Mr Willi! You mentioned it. It is absolutely right that, as the most important key element of the climate strategy, we need an energy transition, an energy transition along with energy efficiency to renewable energy sources. We are indeed top riders in Europe in this regard in Austria. We already have a share of 33 percent of total energy today. We will safely overfill the 34 percent by 2020, and my goal is to implement the 40 percent by 2030. You know that we already have 78 percent in power supply with renewable energy sources, of course due to water energy. I am convinced that we will be able to reach 100 percent by 2030, because it is also – which you have correctly pointed out – that it will create domestic value added while at the same time making an active contribution to climate protection. I also felt very strong in the Committee that we are one in the assessment that nuclear energy cannot be a sustainable source of energy, because it is a high-risk technology and has burdened the environment and our offspring over several generations, and that is why our complaint against the Hinkley Point C project in Great Britain, which was published yesterday in the Official Journal. [[Abg. Brunner: We will probably not have to discuss this in Austria!]] We are also in the process of finding appropriate partners for this action. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Darmann.]] Regarding the statement made by Mr Willi in connection with the export strategy: We are – especially in the USA – consciously on our way to export Austrian environmental technology, where we are really top-ranking with export rates of 80 to 90 percent of our companies. This will create green jobs in Austria and make an international contribution to the environment and to climate protection. Now let me take a very brief look at the request of Mrs Weigerstorfer. Urban Farming, Urban Gardening was also a project we visited in New York. I am very positive about the subject. You have rightly pointed out the positive effects for the climate, for environmental protection, even for architecture – this is completely undisputed. There was, I think, no different assessment. However, due to the responsibility of the federal states for the relevant laws on spatial planning and land use, we did not see any reason to take a legislative measure from the Federal Government in this regard, and I believe that we have the majority of the opinion that this is well removed from the relevant authorities, because very many measures are already being taken in this area. – Thank you very much for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e16748	The next item is the speech by Mr Keck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e16772	Madam President. Federal Minister! I will continue where the Federal Minister has stopped, and as I have already said in the Committee: I would like to make statements on the request of Mrs Weigerstorfer and the Stronach team on the subject of roof greening as a simple, cost-effective climate policy measure. Mrs Weigerstorfer, in advance, we must say that this request for climate protection is of course worthy of support, and the benefits of green roofs would have a very positive effect on air quality, especially in agglomerations. Green roofs filter dust as well as pollutants from the air, and the plants store the rainwater, and this rainwater is then diluted again via vegetation. These are all very good qualities that we need, but, Mrs Verzekerstorfer, this matter does not fall within the competence of the federal government. You write it yourself in your request – and I quote what you are writing: “After roofings are in the competence of the countries”, and so continue in your application, we need to look at: What are the countries doing in terms of roof greening? – There are already many initiatives in the countries, for example in Upper Austria, as there are support for green roofs in the context of housing development. Similar things are also available in Salzburg or Lower Austria. Nevertheless, these projects need to be taken into account in a wide range of aspects, because they are not only beneficial in the case of roof greening. In addition to the benefits for cooling and heat protection, it certainly has a positive impact on the climate. However, one also has to worry that statics are changing, building physics is likely to change, even in the areas of sealing, roof safety and house engineering, of course, many new challenges for house construction are emerging. It is precisely these factors that inform countries very intensively, and there are also regional differences that only the countries can provide information about. Ladies and gentlemen, you see, in the countries it is really very intensively informed about these roof greens. The purpose of this request has been for the Minister to launch an information campaign for roofing. I don't think you need it. There are already many good, excellent information campaigns in the countries. And why should we decide something that already exists in excellent form?
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e16812	The next item is the speech by Mr Schmid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e16833	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! My topic also goes towards roof greening. The applicant assumes that roof greening should be regarded as a simple climate policy measure. However, two different considerations have to be taken into account. A climate policy measure could only be addressed with the appropriate variety and corresponding size of the roof surfaces. In general, the creation of housing is currently located in the high-priced sector. Covers of existing conventional cover are only for the flat roof area, and this only to a limited extent, is possible and constitutes a non-insignificant cost factor. The training of green roofs is currently often applied in underground garages. These are small areas, so that the cost-benefit factor does not appear to be a climate measure. Flat roofing training as a green roof in the residential area is not marked in a rural and alpine situation. In the training of a green roof, consideration should be given to its planting. Roof seals should have high functional safety. The installation of a root protection path is required in order to protect against mechanical damage. Insulating materials shall be selected according to the pressure loads. Green roofs are to be described as care-intensive, depending on planting. If repairs are necessary, they are associated with difficult accessibility and considerable financial effort. Although some of these measures can be achieved through climate policy, green roofs must be rejected as replacements for conventional cover in the age of a high-priced housing policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e16876	The next item is the report by Mr Radler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e16897	Madam President. Federal Minister! There is a government template in which we make an EU adjustment and enlargement to the individual objectives of the sectors. But there is massive criticism, although we certainly do not leave the Austrian path in climate policy to achieve the 2020 climate target – minus 16 percent in CO2 reduction – which is 165 000 tonnes of CO2. That's what we're confessing. [[Calls of the Abg. Brunner.]] And in 2030 we will reach our goal, because Austria is certainly the top environmental leader. Mrs Brunner, You continue to offer your childish Christmas wish for a consistent environmental policy again and again, I ask you: What happened in Upper Austria? [[Abg. Lightenecker: What does “Christmas Wish ” mean? – That’s a concrete demand!]] What happened in Vienna, with the Greens, with their environmental policy? What did the voters say about this? – You should think about it before you become so euphoric here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervoke by Mr Brunner, Mr Lichtenecker and Mr Pirklhuber.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! It is therefore not necessary to become nervous, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens. [[Abg. Brunner: We are not nervous!]] Now I'll tell you one thing: What is consistent environmental policy? Is it not consistent environmental policy that the Federal Minister makes? – Read tomorrow’s newspapers! The complaint against Hankley Point is already insecure to investors, and Hankley Point, as it stands in the “Kurier”. This is a clear strategy, and that is consistent. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] The second is the initiative of our Minister of State concerning the stress tests on nuclear power plants. This is, dear friends of the Green Group, what you always say: We need a consistent environmental policy. It's here, and it's also being led. You would rather stick to your colleagues, for example, the Prime Minister Kretschmann in Baden-Württemberg. What are you doing? – It makes consistent environmental policy. It continues to adhere to European emissions trading. The Greens across Europe, on the other hand, are storming. To get out of here and to call for a consistent environmental policy at every plenary debate, not to be consistent, to be punished by the voters – that is really embarrassing!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e17000	Mr Feichtinger is next spoken. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e17021	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! If you talk to Mr Rädler, you have to be careful that you don't get under the wheels with your speech. He always argues very pointed and very sharp. [[General hustle and bustle.]] Mr Weninger has already mentioned it, and Mr Willi, too, has considered it to be a Nobel Prize: Mr Winter's argument. However, Mr Winter's argument has not gone unnoticed, and I must say honestly now: I don't know if I am. She is now supposed to be personally sorry or pityful. [[Abg. Darmann: Please stay objective and do not become intertwined!]] [[Abg. Wenninger: Now let him talk!]] The Society for the Scientific Study of Parasciences has nominated you as a finalist. As a finalist for the “Golden Board for Head”,“for the largest anti-scientific disfavor of the year”. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Darmann and Mr Deimek.]] Mrs Winter! As an environmental spokesperson of the FPÖ, perhaps you should consider whether your positions, which you represent here in the House, find any scientific basis or not. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Wheeler.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] [[Call at SPÖ: This is Europe-wide in all newspapers!]] [[Abg. Darmann: Don't talk out, don't need...! That's crazy! Madam President. That's worth an order call!]] Mr Darmann, this report has already been published in the press and can also be read in several other newspapers. This is just a replay of what has already been said in the press. [[Abg. Darmann: Always on women's rights and then...!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wenninger.]] [[Calls and calls between SPÖ and FPÖ MPs.]] As far as the Climate Change and Emissions Certificate Act is concerned, a number of previous speakers have already said so, including Mr Rädler, and we ask for broad approval of this measure. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e17142	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Smoking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e17164	Madam President. Federal Minister! I believe that in the environmental field, many ways lead to Rome, even though we often take some things as funny or similar, but I believe that all want to bring their proposals. I don't need to defend Mrs. Winter's colleague or make that ridiculous. She gave her speech here, gave her idea of the best, and what we think of it, everyone can judge it for himself. But I think the environmental issue is too important to question because oscarnominations and golden pineapples and what else was all about. It makes everyone's thoughts, and you don't have to share every thought. That's normal in this high house. [[Congratulations to Mr Darmann and Mr Schrangl.]] In principle, however, environmental policy: Environmental policy is a cross-sectional matter, climate protection policy is a cross-sectional matter. I do not think it justified to assume to the Minister of Finance that he has not mentioned this in his speech. You just have to listen when you talk about quality of life when you talk about the quality of food. And if we all know that it is a cross-sectional matter, when you read between the lines and listen carefully and not always pick out the raisins you need for your own speech, then you can listen very well. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brunner.]] When he speaks of reforms when he speaks of increasing the research rate – these are all areas that benefit environmental protection and climate protection, without having to point out exactly the point every time. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I think we all share the view that we want an intact ecosystem. For me as a Tyrolean, of course, an intact ecosystem is also extremely important, because we know that Tyrol lives and benefits greatly from tourism. All these areas must be designed. Just now, just a few weeks before the World Climate Conference in Paris, this proposal for a law, presented by the Minister, fits very well into the concept. That you can't always do everything you're going to do can, I think, sing Georg Williein Song. We first addressed the Urban Gardening in Innsbruck: That didn't bring the green city council together either, and still it worked later. But I think our minister is implementing, our minister has ambitious goals, and this is what we are talking about in the field of environmental and climate protection policy. If we all pull together on one strand, we also bring something together in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e17233	Next item is the report by Mr Antoni. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e17254	Madam President. Federal Minister! I too would like to comment briefly on item 14 of the motion for a resolution (Doc. 895) by Mrs Weigerstorfer on 'Greening the roof as a simple, cost-effective climate policy measure'. As has already been mentioned several times, this structural initiative falls within the competence of the federal states, where there are already very good information offers regarding the greening of roofs. A very good example in this context is certainly the city of Vienna. For years now, intensive work has been being done to make the benefits of greening roofs accessible to a broad public. For example, a green roof potential disaster was set up by the Vienna Environment Department MA 22, which indicates whether it is a potential for greening for every roof area in the city. In addition, MA 22 has also been raised in a roof greening survey, where there are already green roofs in Vienna and how they are distributed in the city area, and the MA has also promoted the topic of roof greening in public perception for many years through various publications and public specialist events. So I think that the issue in the countries is very well removed, and you can see that it is being promoted very widely and made accessible to people. There are also best-practice examples from the federal states. I would just like to mention one from Upper Austria: the greening of the tunnel surface of the motorway housing in Bindermichl. This project has created a park of around 40 000 m2, which has achieved a significant increase in the quality of living and living. Ladies and gentlemen, as already mentioned, there are examples and initiatives in this regard in all the other federal states, we believe that there is currently no need to initiate an Austrian-wide campaign on the part of the federal government on the greening of roofs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e17300	The next item is the speech by Mr Bacher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e17321	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! The amendment of the Climate Change Act and the amendments to the Emissions Certificate Act will take another step to achieve climate change objectives as far as possible. Climate change, global temperature warming, extreme weather events remind us that we must stick to these objectives and actively and above all consistently continue to operate environmental protection. However, I would like to point out from the example of the Austrian cable cars that technology, nature and therefore also environmental protection must not be contradicted. Although we do not have exceptional roof greening, especially in the area of high-level greening, i.e. in the case of greening measures over 2,500 m above sea level, we have now been able to do very large development work and have also achieved international recognition and implementation. Yes, it doesn't go without a trace of nature when thousands of skiers drive in snowy meadows. But after neither winter sports nor cable cars in Austria are to be thought away – I think we agree – the Austrian cable cars of course also have a very large share in environmental protection and in meeting the political challenges of climate protection. The Austrian cable cars invest around €55 million a year, involving experts in the areas of environment and sustainability. We in Salzburg work very closely with the House of Nature and with the Institute of Ecology and Environmental Science. Thus, the Austrian cable cars with their energy-efficient installations and storage ponds, which are partly used for electricity generation in the summer, make a significant contribution to achieving the targets of impact in the Federal estimates. In addition, our cable cars secure Austrian- This is also an extremely important point and an economic factor which is not to be considered. As my previous speakers have said, it is worth noting the request of my colleague, Rejectorstorfer: The roof greening is covered by the construction regulations, and it is very well removed in the competence of the federal states. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e17366	The next item is the speech by Mr Buchmayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e17388	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to say a few words about the Emissions Certificate Act, which includes legal certainty for aircraft operators and reduces the restriction of emissions trading obligations within Europe. In Austria, 30 of these operators are affected, 14 of them with less than 1 000 tonnes of emissions per year. The fact is, about 13 percent of global greenhouse gas emissions are produced by traffic. 12 percent of these are caused by aviation. In total, European air transport generates 0.5 percent of global CO2 emissions, 80 percent of them for flights over 1,500 km. But very interesting is the technological development in this area, where modern aircraft consume about 3.5 litres per 100 kilometres on average, future models even 3.0. This is a very positive development that also compensates for the increasing number of passengers and passengers, or the aviation industry itself imposes a four-column model to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 25 percent by 2020, by 50 percent by 2050. This has also led to political debate. I think, as in this one area, that in many technical areas greenhouse gas emissions are improved by technical development, and we are certainly on a very positive path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e17421	The next item is the speech by Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e17442	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Mrs. Minister! To this law and to the discussions that have just been held, it is perhaps very grateful, Mr Minister, if Willi Molterer has been promoted to this high office with this high award, in his time as a Minister of Agriculture, one of the wrong developments in agricultural policy. With the argument of the surpluses, the butterberg, the milk lakes, the meat mountain, the Minister Molterer, unfortunately also with the support of the colleagues from the Greens, this march towards biogas plants, namely biogas plants with feed. We still have this displeasure today! There are twenty tons of maize unused in the biogas plants without producing meat, milk or food. I think this abuse should be stopped. We have a question tomorrow when we see where the food comes from. We partly have beef from New Zealand, Brazil and South America. Mr Minister, it is also part of the emission protection of the circular economy that supports animal-fertilizer plant. And through this development, which has been said, we have overturned 50,000 hectares of most valuable permanent meadows. In the course of the roof greening it was also spoken of the preservation of the domestic diversity. We have here threatened the most valuable permanent pasture with a variety of plants of 30 plant varieties, the most valuable biodiversity and the most valuable drinking water protection, because of course with intensive maize cultivation for the biogas plants. Here we have to think about it! And I think it is an essential point to take this into account. I know about a nutritionist, and this is the risk of these scientific bills, including the CO2 certificates, when you say a litre of milk needs 1,000 liters of water. In some cases, such misconceptions are carried out on the back of agriculture. Now my predecessor has rightly mentioned the air traffic, the overflights, everything that comes out of the air. Look at the pollutant entry in the mountains, then you know who's involved! We must have this debate so broad! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e17485	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall come to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 13: Draft Federal Act amending the Climate Change Act and the Emissions Certificate Act, including the title and entry into 800 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Brunner, ladies and gentlemen, on setting up promised funds before the Paris climate conference. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Pock, colleagues and colleagues on Austria's contribution to the Green Climate Fund. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on Agenda item 14: Proposal from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 805 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. The report is adopted. [[20:38:59]] 15. Point Report of the Committee on Equal Treatment on application 1282/A(E) of the Deputies. Aygül Berivan Aslan, colleagues in the film industry (830 d.b.) 16. Point Report by the Equal Treatment Committee on Amendment 1154/A by Mr Michael Pock, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the Equal Treatment Act (831b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e17606	We come to points 15 and 16 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mr Magistrate. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e17633	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! A report from the Federal Government on the reduction of women's disadvantages was discussed in the Equal Treatment Committee. This was particularly the question of collective agreements and the settlement of child rearing periods that were regulated or not regulated there. We see this flat-rate reckoning of child rearing times as not targeting, and I would like to explain to them why. In the case of pay cuts, the objective assessment of an increase in productivity of employees is a false consideration if one is to calculate child rearing times. I believe that this is a wrong approach. In fact, it is correctly noted that long childhood education periods – and it is mostly women who take on this task – have a negative impact on salary development over years, and instead of drawing the right conclusion, there are too many salary levels that are taking place there, and what I once failed, I never pick up in the back again, you really should come here and say that the increase in experience is much stronger at the beginning of the career career and then flattens relatively quickly. Today, among staff scientists, it is assumed that after eight years of work in the same profession, no additional experience can be gained that can be remunerated into productivity growth. One should actually say that there is less action, because then someone who has been exposed for some time in the profession, for whatever reason, can pick it up much faster. Because if there are 20 steps and I've missed two somewhere, I always go after these two. If there's only three steps, I'll pick it up sometime. That is why it should be regulated differently! Why isn't that happening? – On this side, a few people could sit if they were present who may have negotiated collective contracts on the part of employers, because the old people are always facing you. [[the speaker points towards ÖVP]] They just have the better lobby. They always sit opposite them at collective treaty negotiations those trade unionists who have been in the upper wage and wage groups for many years, where there is much to distribute and defend. That's why there's nothing going on. This actually harms those older workers who are not in a happy position to have a job, but who have to look for one more because they have lost him for some reason. So this is a completely counterproductive policy of a class of the possessors. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e17682	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Gisela Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e17706	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing two requests under this item on the agenda. This is once the request made by Mr Pock, who was present in the Committee in contrast to Mr Loacker, and then the request made by Mrs Aslan, on film and film promotion, and the disparity of funding, if you consider it carefully, between women and men. Perhaps just briefly to our committee meeting, which we held last Tuesday. We have discussed a very interesting report. The report on the reduction of the disadvantages of women 2013-2014. Mrs. Dr. Mairhuber and Mrs. Dr. Papouschek were invited to the committee, and they really have given a deep insight into the different causes. There are multiple causes for the disadvantage of women in different areas. What you can read from it is that, for example, classifications are made different, whether it be woman or man. We have come up with it, or we have been scientifically led to the fact that there are differences in various areas, and there is a different approach. On the basis of five different collective agreements, Mrs Papouschek has shown us how different the measures to be put in place here are. The Committee of my colleague, Mr Schittenhelm, then had the idea that we should invite the social partners who are negotiating collective agreements at one of the next committee meetings, so that we can also receive explanations from this side, but on the other hand we would also like to present our ideas to them. And we will! We'll have a meeting with the women's speakers here in the couloir tomorrow, and we'll take this into consideration. We will invite the President of the Federal Chamber of Agriculture, Mr. Schultes, the President of the Chamber of Commerce, Mr. Leitl, Mr. von ÖGB and Mr. AK, Mr. Foglar and Mr. Kaske, and then we will move on, almost selectively, to deal with it more precisely, and also to the gentlemen – we do not need to genderize, it is only gentlemen – on the tooth. In this sense, I am looking forward to one of our next committee meetings. It was a good idea that we were born together! [[Congratulation with SPÖ and ÖVP as well as the Abg. Aslan.]] Now also on the request of Mr Berivan Aslan. It is very welcome that we have been involved, although the committee responsible is the Committee on Culture, but we have adopted these different, non-sex support measures. It was discussed in the Committee and we came to the unanimous opinion that it was unanimously decided in the Committee that this request would be allocated to the Committee on Culture, but that, so to speak, this request would be discussed in the form of a round table. We will invite not only the women's speakers, but also members of the cultural committee, but of course also the professionals, the experts from the FC Gloria, who have taught us committee members. They are the professionals who report what is possible to do here, and here we will inform ourselves. There are some of us who are members of the Equal Treatment Committee, but also in the Cultural Committee, and of course we will take that up accordingly. I also look at Mrs Pfurtscheller, who has also spoken accordingly. We're going to get to the bottom of this, too, because it can't be expected that a lot of men and women will be studying at the film academy and the women will disappear. This is a highly specialized, expensive training. It is really worth considering the matter, because it belongs to promoting what is to be promoted, internationally renowned directors, films that really attract more than attention. Here and everywhere we should also promote accordingly! This is also the order of the Gender Mainstreaming. So it was thought in 1998, when it was also laid down in the EU directives, that wherever there is injustice between the sexes, we would do something about it. That is what we are going to do, all the women in our committee! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e17776	Mrs Schittenhelm is speaking next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e17798	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) My previous speaker, Mrs Wurm, has already said this: There has been a very interesting report, the report on the reduction of women's disadvantages. There are also numbers that are not only impressive, but actually also genant. We know that the employment rate of women has increased steadily since 1995 and that of 4 million people in employment in our country, nearly 2 million are women. The gender difference is just over 10 percent, and yet this value is mainly due to the increase in part-time work of women – more than 45 percent – in recent years. Although the income gap has changed slightly, we must say that in 2013 between women and men there are wage differences of up to 39 percent, with the value where full-time employment is given at 18 percent. Let's take a look at this: We are in this area, I believe, Europe's final light. It is not clear and understandable why this is so. There are very simple differences in equal training, with a long stay in a farm, with the same training and training. That is why I am very glad that we invite the gentlemen of the social partners to learn what they fail to do, which is that we do not get to grips with it. These minimum incomes and these lower incomes apply to women's pensions. And even there the numbers were impressive, of course in the negative sense: Women's old-age pensions are around 48 percent lower than those of men, and disability and incapacity pensions are also by up to 37 percent lower; therefore, of course, many women also slide directly into the poverty of old age. For us, therefore, it is said to remain active, to do everything to bring about a rapid positive development – that is why this conversation is also happening. However, I would also like to address the request made by Mrs Aslan on women's promotion in the film industry – quite, very important too. It is true that in Austria, of course, we have a lot of directors, screenwriters, actresses, filmmakers – no matter what –. They can do that, the women, they are also enthusiastic, but of course they also need appropriate motivation and encouragement so that they can achieve their goal of success. And it is especially true for the boys who have the courage to go into this industry – which is not exactly the safest, that's what you have to say: In order for them to trust themselves in this profession and also to be able to take a foothold so that they can be successful, they need our support and support. They need these goals – and that is our task. It was therefore important and right that we have assigned this request to the Committee on Culture so that professional treatment and treatment of this subject take place there. This will be supported accordingly by all the political groups – on the part of the EIA – and we have already heard it from my previous speaker. However, I would also like to refer very briefly to Mr Pock's request for a federal law which amends the equal treatment law. Well, we already know this request from the July plenary session; at that time he was already debated in the Committee and then rejected for reasons of explanation, because the principle of equal pay for equal work is not reflected in this example. I know, it sounds very popular when we say yes, it needs a pay curve, more for the disciples and less for the elderly, we should just not ignore the fact that especially the older workers have a huge wealth of experience, enormous knowledge that we should not be small. I therefore believe that this request was rightly rejected in the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e17853	Mrs Rosenkranz is speaking next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e17874	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I will talk about the request concerning lack of equality, lack of gender equality in the film industry. My colleague Carmen Schimanek will then deal with the issue of equality in general. We are in favour of assigning to the Cultural Committee. That was right – it has been said – unanimously; we do not want to deprive the Committee on Culture of the pleasure of negotiating this request. On the content, however, we had a quite opposite opinion, and I think it makes sense to make this clear again now. The application complains that gender equality in the film industry cannot be spoken. She is highly male, the promotions are mainly directed at directors, and an unpleasant consequence of the fact that in the films it is a cliché – as it stands in the request – of women and men. This is just once a package suspicion: In other words, male directors tend to spread clichés, gender stereotype ideas of men and women. So now I'll take the men in protection. [[Abg. Aslan: This is also a claim...!]] I have met particularly in the Equal Treatment Committee – and perhaps we will see it in the debate here too – really profound male feminists. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Y ılmaz.]] So who says that men distribute gender stereotypes? But, in fact, there is still more to it, and this has indeed been presented by Mrs Mückstein, who represented her request in committee. She said: It is very bad when female perceptions are not presented and not applied in the films. And now I am somewhat surprised and also confused, because, as you have said, Mrs Wurm, this request is a request in the sense of gender mainstreaming, which claims and wants equality to take place in all areas of life, because there are no natural differences in the behaviour of men and women, not even in mental behaviour. So if such a thing is observed, then first it is negligible and second is constructed. But that is the opposite: a female perception! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gisela Worm.]] This is a smooth break from the idea of gender mainstreaming, namely that differences should not play a role. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kucharovich.]] Honestly, it's really not easy – I have to say it now – to genderize. I really don't envy you! But for us I hold: A system and a dogma, which is so contradictory in itself, cannot find our consent, apart from the fact that it cannot, of course, stand close to a scientific examination.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e17932	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Aslan. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e17953	Mrs National Council President! After hearing our gender experts from the FPÖ Group, I would like to present my request on the issue of gender relations in the film industry. [[Abg. Singer: Did you listen?]] I think it should somehow be clear to you that it is primarily a question of power relations and also a question of justice. Film is a socially highly relevant medium. [[Abg. Peter Worm: But very green dominated!]] Whoever gives these pictures – let me speak out, please – and transports values over these pictures is very important because we know that pictures are very thoughtful, very cultural. Those who make films simply create reality, and the reality is that more than half of the Austrian population and more than half of the world's population are women. [[Call the FPÖ:Thank God!]] The Austrian film industry is strongly male-dominated, we have heard that from my previous speakers. Of course, there are also women who work in the film industry, but only a few manage to establish themselves as producers, as directors. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] In almost all areas of the film industry, gender relations are simply on track. It already starts with the fact that a lot of women and men are studying film, but only half of it really comes in the profession. [[Calls and calls between FPÖ and SPÖ MPs.]] Only a small single-digit percentage of domestic production companies are run by women, important decision-making bodies have no fixed parity occupations. The so-called large film funding of the Austrian Film Institute and the Filmfonds in Vienna – which is, of course, a lot of money and also high budgets – only a few applications for funding from women are approved at all. This is simply a sign that we need not only legal measures, but also political measures so that above average successful women can claim their place in the film industry more effectively compared to average successful men. Unfortunately, we do not have any official data surveys in this respect, as the art report shows a lot of things very clearly. [[Call the FPÖ:Kunish!]] And that's why it's important to look at: Where's the money going? How do these grants benefit women at all? In the meantime, there are also European countries such as Sweden, Denmark or Norway which can serve as a model for us and which can also contribute to change. As women's speakers, I think it's our job to see gender budgeting being implemented effectively in the film industry. It is our job to ensure that these women also come to their right to justice. Of course, I would also like to thank my colleagues Worm and Schittenhelm for this joint commitment and hope that the Cultural Committee with FC Gloria will show its strength and that we can work together to achieve something common in this regard. So, before leaving the speaker's desk, I would like to refer briefly to the attack in Ankara, in which more than 128 people have died, including many friends of mine. My Message to It's simple: Please show your attitude against authoritarian regimes! Please show your attitude against terrorism and state terrorism! And don't be surprised when helpless people stand at our borders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e18039	The next item is the speech by Mrs Schenk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e18060	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speakers have already said a lot about the two proposals from the Equality Committee. President Gisela Wurm has also reported on the equal treatment committee and on the report on the disadvantages of women on the labour market we have dealt with there, and she has finally said the sentence – I can quote you, dear Gisela! – that we all take action to eliminate injustices against women. – I think we agree, there we can find a consensus, only: Access is another, and also the definition. I would also like to refer to the last committee meeting and address two points, since I think we could have done a lot in this area, even if we could have agreed. It is above all the differing views of the Members of the Government, which I think is very bad. The ÖVP also has my opinion, In our opinion, Mr Carmen Schimanek's opinion on calculating the pension claim to take into account four years for each child, full four years, and not to stop the calculation when another child is born. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] We have often debated this in the Committee on Equal Opportunities. I myself have already tabled proposals, including Mrs Schimanek. There is agreement, also the EIA stands on this request, on its content, but unfortunately this is not to be done and is not to be carried out with the SPÖ Members. This would be a real improvement for women, financial support and improvement. – And you refuse to do so! And that, ladies and gentlemen, especially to the SPÖ, I cannot understand and cannot understand, even across several political groups. Another point I would like to address: At the last Committee meeting, I have repeatedly put the request concerning the preparation of a moving study on the agenda. Unfortunately, as expected, he was delayed what I didn't understand at all, because the problem of Mobbing is obvious, getting worse and worse. We only need to look at the schools, Mrs Heinisch-Hosek will confirm this too, because there is really a great need for action – not to talk about suicide, in which Mobbing often ends. I do not want to keep you there – I think this is really incredible, I say it was almost obsessive – as a Member of Parliament, Mr Knes, said in the committee on this matter. And I have to say, Thank God also thanked Mrs. Chairman Worm, the female spokesperson Schittenhelm and especially the ladies Schimanek of the FPÖ and Mückstein of the Greens of this subject and the preparation of this study very massively supported. The Red and Black Members also pointed out that we were here on 2 October. In December, we are planning an event on this subject. I would like to tell you once again that this was really bad, what you have done in the committee, and that you can be glad that the committee meeting was not followed by the public, because otherwise, I think, the image that the public of politicians has would become even more negative by your unqualified speech. [[in the direction of the Abg. Knes]] [[Congratulations with Team Stronach and FPÖ.]] Yeah, we still have a lot to do. There's still a lot to be done. I hope that we will find more common ground in the future beyond party policy. I think we women's speakers understand each other very well, we have a good understanding, including the chairman of the committee. Unfortunately, it's just about the things, the problems I mentioned earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e18126	Mrs Kucharovich's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e18148	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Seers! I would like to speak to Mr Zanger in advance: What are these funny gestures supposed to do? You know exactly what I mean, I don't want to repeat it here. So I really ask for seriousness on the subject! What should always be this interested person when it comes to women and equal Is there a point of order? You know exactly what I mean. Even if it wasn't all in the hall, but that's really not a state! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Secondly, I would like to refer to Mr Schenk's speech on the pension claim. We have discussed it several times in the Committee and as a SPÖ group, I can only repeat it: You can't stay at home twice, you can only do it once, even if you have two, three, or four children overlapping. For us, this would clearly be a way to the poverty of old age in which we drive women, because of what comes out of it, women cannot live. This is our clear attitude: We call for child care facilities across the board, so to speak, to increase full-time employment so that women are self-employed and thus independent. Now the focus of my speech, namely the promotion of women in the film industry: I think it is very central – that has already been mentioned several times, but I still want to repeat it – to force women as directors, filmmakers, producers. Unfortunately, as in many professional fields, women are underrepresented or are also more unknown than men. This is not only sad, but also very unfair, because we are simply more than 50 percent of the population, but unfortunately this is not reflected in this industry either. There are these great women, which has also confirmed FC Gloria, who are simply extremely committed and really behind it to fight for equality. – That’s why: Full conviction, and we are happy to support it! As far as the request is concerned, in particular, the explanatory text, where the typical clichés are mentioned: Gender-sensitive, gender-friendly films actually make it very rarely in so-called mainstream cinemas. There is much more to be done, as we are called for at national level, but also at international level, because we simply need women on the director's chairs, on the producer's chairs, on the filmmaker's chairs, in order to show the corresponding sensitivity and finally clean up these stereotypes. In short – I don't have time anymore –: From my point of view, the allocation to the Committee on Culture is right to convene a round table on the initiative of our spokesperson, the chairman of the Committee on Equal Treatment, is very central. Our cultural speaker Lisa Hakel has also been dealing with this for a long time, including discussions with the Austrian Film Institute. We also see in the area: It's very, very important to just wear the women's glasses everywhere. Finally, I would like to say: Many more women in film and theatre need our country, need our nation and we also need international! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e18208	Mr El Habbassi is speaking next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e18229	Madam President. Dear Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to refer to Mr Pock's request, which calls for the equal treatment law to be amended accordingly. that, in the future, a principle of seniority is prevented by law and that there is a clear framework with the aim of abolishing the principle of seniority by means of mandatory sanctions and a corresponding framework law, which regulates what collective agreements will have to look like in the future. Now I am glad that we are actually dealing with equal treatment as globally as it should be that we are not only always talking about gender differences, but also about the equal treatment of different generations. I also share the intention of the request: It is simply not to see why, when young people enter work, they earn much less than later, and that only because of their age, not perhaps because of lack of experience or lack of productivity, but simply because they are too young. That is why I share the intention of this request. I think we need collective contracts that work according to the principle, to pay the same pay for the same work, no matter what age, no matter which sex. It should be at the centre of the performance, not the age and not the gender. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and NEOS.]] That would be a situation I wish for. On the request: The request is therefore rejected by us because, I believe, it does not make sense. We have a good tradition of social partnership. I think it makes sense for collective agreements to be negotiated together. In the future, the content should be such that the principle of benefit counts, and not the age, but the framework laws, in which very specific precautions are defined at a certain level in a certain period of time, do not make sense. That is why we have decided to reject this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e18278	Ms Heinisch-Hosek spoke next. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e18299	Madam President. High National Council! I would just like to say a few words about the social partners because I have had good experience with regard to income reports, in particular with the report on the reduction of the disadvantage of women mentioned by some previous speakers, for which five collective agreements have been examined. There are also other studies that IHS has examined about 30 collective agreements to investigate whether the principle of seniority has a positive impact on older workers. Scientists have concluded that there is a particular need for own measures for older workers. Many have already been started, fit2work for women in particular, some measures to 50+ and much more, so that in some sectors it is not so much about the principle of seniority, but about how to secure older workers well. But that's just by the way. I believe that legal provisions on the 700 collective agreements negotiated in Austria are not easy to implement. I also personally reject the presumption of social partners' negotiations in laws. The law on income reports has been developed in good tradition with the social partners and me. I would like to invite you – this is actually the reason why I have started so long now – with the presidents of the social partners when they are invited by the Equal Treatment Committee – which I very much welcome, and the issue of wage equality has now also fallen several times – including talking about how to improve these income reports. I am currently discussing this with the presidents of the social partners. There are different views. Some think the companies make it 85 percent, that's all right. The others think – and I think so – that one might even improve and rethink this, so that we can have a little more insight into the issue of wage equality, why women earn so much and so much less. I very much welcome such discussions and would like to invite Mr President-in-Office to be very intensively asked about the income reports. On the other hand, I would like to note that Austria has excellent directors, screenwriters, cutters, camera women, but it is quite more difficult for them, although cultural support for men and women has naturally approached by gender budgeting, but it is not yet satisfactory. Especially in this sector, where precarious conditions often prevail and the self-employment of these women is sometimes threatened by orders that gentlemen have developed differently and by familiarity quite differently, it is, I think, good that it comes to a round table to highlight this subject in an urgent manner. If there are prices abroad, we will be happy to show our women and get them in front of the curtain, but when it comes to careers of women in our own country, we still need some rethinking. In this sense, it is beneficial to discuss both applications well in terms of content and to argue well – I think – why one is not all right and the other, film promotion, needs to be considered even more thoroughly. I can only invite you to this kind of discussion. The Equal Treatment Committee is also in place to deal with matters which have been rejected or not dealt with in other committees. But we are not responsible for everything either, since legalism is not possible. Therefore, such expert rounds – in conclusion, I would like to say – are very welcome because we can spread, gather expertise from other areas as well, and if we invite the gentlemen or other experts to us, we may expect answers that we may not get from ourselves.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e18347	Mrs Schimanek is speaking next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e18369	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to start by saying a word to Mrs Kucharovich. Of course, this is your view of women's and family policies. Of course, ours is a little different. We stand for genuine freedom of choice for women. It is also about women being free to decide how long they can stay at home with their children without financial pressure, and not that they must be forced into work immediately and give their children in foreign care. We stand by the fact that women can also take time to stay at home with their children for a longer time, and that time is also appreciated. This is very, very important for us. [[Accompaniment with the FPÖ and the Abg. Tamandl.]] But now to Mr Pock's request – he is no longer here. I have already voted against it in committee, because I do not believe it is very good to do a redistribution of old and young. I think it's much more important As we have heard today, it would be like to work in the collective agreements. To the additional experience, Mr Loacker, you have mentioned: You can also reorientate yourself in a professional way and then stand at the very beginning with 30, 35 and then you can't take any preliminary service times at all. I don't think that's fair, either. I cannot therefore accept this argument either now and I do not agree with you. As far as pay differences between women and men are concerned, we have seen very clearly in the report that differences between women's salaries and men's wages arise when women have children. The employment rate of women without children is 89.1 percent. She's similar to the men. The problem arises when women choose to have children. They then have disadvantages in the pension, in the preemptive periods, in the collective contracts and so on. We have made a lot of good proposals to that effect. The last one was mentioned by Mr Schenk. He was hotly discussed, not just once, but twice. I was very pleased that the ÖVP can come very close to my request and can also support it. However, I understand that you unfortunately have to postpone it if it does not work in the government, but I give you another opportunity today to agree to another request from us. Mrs Heinisch-Hosek said today that she is also looking forward to discussing with the social partners. That is why I make a request to do so. The Members who have been signed make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would be very pleased if you could give our request your consent. Mrs Heinisch-Hosek was entirely my opinion. And I think it would be time to agree to a request from the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e18450	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e18542	The next item is the speech by Mr Knes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e18564	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! First of all, thank you for the extensive report submitted to us in the Committee on Equal Opportunities. He shows us that we have already cleaned up essential building blocks, but are still far away from the equal treatment of women and men, especially as regards the payment of compensation. I would just like to give you one example: If Wolfgang Knesmorgen were to leave a company for whatever reason, the post would reach the official invitation to tender and apply for a woman who will eventually receive this post, it is, unfortunately, God's, also true certainty that this woman will receive the post, but may only dress him for more than 20 hours. Now I can choose as Wolfgang Knese: Was I too stupid or is Mrs. XY so hot? There is certainly a need to reacquire much to know what exactly is in the equal treatment of women. Michael Pock's request, presented by Gerald Loacker, is an attack on the social partners, and I will explain very briefly: Mr Loacker, you seem to have missed everything that happened in the history of Austria. There is the General Civil Code and also a so-called commercial law, after all since 1859. However, collective agreements are negotiated by the social partners. These are on the one hand the ÖGB and the Chamber of Commerce on the other, and they know very well that they do nothing worse than is regulated in these laws, but always contribute significantly to the improvement. I would like to say a few words here in this area to inform you of what exactly is in your request. They would like to request that the biennial jumps for women be abolished and regulated by law. This would mean nothing more than that a 45-year-old woman who is admitted to four biennial jumps in your company – and that is what I really say to you personally – would be accepted by you in a glorious and divine way, but – and now the Clou – she would start with the wage level zero, namely the minimum wage. As soon as it gets into the biennial jumps, after two years, you would say – see: No, we have to say goodbye. That is why you are now facing a wall, namely the social partners. This is where you can put the request, which was made by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. July was rejected, even twenty times, you'll be standing in front of a wall, and you'll never get through with your head, I can assure you! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Secondly – a final sentence because my speaking time is unfortunately out –: Mrs. Schenk, maybe you got me wrong, then I'm sorry. But one thing is also clear – and I would like to say this quite clearly and clearly here: You once again asked for a study in the Equal Treatment Committee on Mobbing against women. In terms of content, I'm right, but you also have to know that a lot of studies have been carried out in the last ten years. The Chamber of Labour, the ÖGB, the Chamber of Commerce, the Statistics Austria are fully equipped with these mobbing statistics and – now stop! – we also acted there: We've been innovativeating this law. There's a self-mobbing law in Austria, that'll probably have gone away from you, that can be, maybe. And to add that you're upset here that I'm being dirty, just one thing you want to say: Mobbing is a very sensitive issue, especially for women, but to discuss it in the public, we are certainly not there. For this we have laws, for which we have the ÖGB and also the Chamber of Workers. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e18630	The next item is the speech by Mr Sieber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e18651	Madam President. Minister! High house! So I have to admit that at the beginning of the legislative period I had a very mixed feeling whether my membership of the Equal Treatment Committee had mixed feelings, but now I have to say that it is an absolutely valuable committee because we are simply getting to know the worlds of life and the realities of women that we need to change. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] This allocation of the proposal on women's promotion in the film industry, ladies and gentlemen, we will be happy to agree, even if I do not like a few small points. If, for example, the local film loses cultural significance, I can simply say: Of course, that's nonsense. The Austrian film is experiencing a high level of economic activity. He comes into the spotlight internationally and is successful as never before. [[Abg. Aslan: But no director!]] But if it is true that women are obviously not being promoted enough, it is good and right that the proposal of Mr Wurm is realized that young filmmakers, together with the Cultural Committee and the Equal Treatment Committee, debate and find more knowledge. I think that this proposal is very good and I hope that we will be able to learn more deeply in such a conversation. Nevertheless, I believe that Minister of Culture Ostermayer has already done good work so far, and that the film has been well promoted and that in the future the quality of what and how something is promoted must be decided, regardless of gender. The best is to be promoted. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e18694	Mrs Yılmaz is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e18712	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! It was almost all said, but not yet by everyone. Nevertheless, I would like to congratulate you very much on the Federal Government's report on the reduction of the disadvantages of women, the year of the report 2013 and 2014 – not only the members of the committee, but all the Members of this House – so that we can work together on this inequality, which exists and is admitted. There are also a lot of proposals. Mrs Schimanek, the women do not only deserve less because they have children and days of care. – Yes, that’s true, but women who don’t have children and work all the time also experience inequality very often. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schimanek.]] - Excuse me? [[Abg. Schimanek:... but there they are treated unevenly!]] That's right! That's right! They are treated differently, and we must work on that. That is why this report is a tool for all of us, and everyone should be aware of what we are doing so that this inequality is no longer taking place in Austria. Inequality treatment: Equal Pay Day is a term for many of you. It is that date... – These are the masters of the FPÖ who are not interested in it! [[Unrest in the meeting room.]] Equal Pay Day is a term to many of you, which is that date from which women in Austria work for nothing. In 2015, that was the 11. October. That's exactly 81 days in 2015, almost three months in which the women in Austria work for nothing. We don't want to take that! That was something we agreed on. ==References====External links== October, when the women worked 82 days for nothing. Today it has become better for a day. If we improve this by one day each year, it means that the wage shears, the uneven payment in Austria, will be closed exactly in 81 years. We agreed: We don't want to wait for that. These are the next projects we want to take, not small steps, but larger ones. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e18762	Mrs Pfurtscheller is speaking next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e18783	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I would first like to turn to Mrs Rosenkranz, but now she has... ah, that's where she stands, she's still there! Ladies and gentlemen, I really think you are a very well-readed and very intelligent woman, but I think you should perhaps read the terms Gendering, Gender Mainstreaming and Gender Budgeting again, because it's not about gender... [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] The gender issue is not to make men and women equal. It is also not a question of encouraging people to feel or feel the same way that men and women have to feel, but it is a matter of enabling all people to participate – a fair participation for men and women – and not only for men and women, but also for people with disabilities or people with migration backgrounds. [[Congratulations on ÖVP, SPÖ and Greens.]] That is why this committee is also called the Equality Committee and not the Reconciliation Committee. [[Congratulation with ÖVP, SPÖ and Greens as well as the Abg. Scherak.]] I would like to say something about the request made by my colleague, Mr Berivan Aslan. You have a very nice second sentence in your application, which means: “Whoever makes movies creates reality.” Mrs Rosenkranz meant that we would suspect the men on a flat-rate basis if we claimed that they could not make good films with women and women. I don't mean that; there are men who can do it quite well. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hagen.]] However, we can simply examine this, and I would advise every colleague and every colleague to do so. There is this so-called Bechdel test – I hope it is said so – which Mrs Alison Bechdel, a American comicist, once introduced. Everyone can use it by watching a movie or a series, and you can then check this movie for the following facts: Are there at least two women in this movie, and do they also have a name? Do they talk to each other?, and – the third question I like quite well, and that is very often true if you think a bit about movies –: Do they talk about anything other than men? There are a lot of films that this applies to; therefore, I think, it is important that women make films that allow women to make good women's films. A few months ago, my colleague, Mr Palfrader, in charge of culture and education in Tyrol, said that the fantasy of men in Weitem is not enough to understand the reality of women's life. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Calls of the Abg. Schimanek.]] That's why it's very important to us that women are allowed to make films. Please calm down, my colleague, all this is also equipped with a twinkler so that the machomen can survive up there. [[It was in favour of SPÖ and Greens as well as representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[==References====External links== Schimanek.]] In the early 1950s and 1960s, the men gave us a women's image, according to which the good housewife was waiting for her husband at home with the strengthened Apron and the finished food, the children were already in bed and well cared for. That's the life form that still hangs her pretty much – even the woman Rosary thinks it's really great. [[Abg. Schimanek: That's a premise!]] Today, a picture is given that women must be thin and young in order to be able to appear in a film. I apologise for all the thin and young women present; of course they are not meant to do so. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] I think it's very important that reality is presented as we live women. [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ.]] We women are diverse! We women are strong! We women can do a lot; we live in very different situations of life, and that must also be presented. That is why I hope that Mr Ostermayer's report will be put forward and that I look forward to a lively discussion in the Committee on Culture. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e18885	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 15: Proposal from the Committee on Equal Treatment to take note of its report 830 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. I accept the motion for a resolution 1282/A(E) to the Committee on Culture. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 16: Proposal from the Committee on Equal Treatment to take note of its report 831 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Schimanek, fellow Members, on measures to reduce the disadvantages of women in collective agreements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. [[21:35:19]] 17. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (779, p._Other Organiser Agreements between the Republic of Austria and Australia in the field of social security (833d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e18968	Now we get to the 17th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Keck is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e18996	An agreement between Austria and Australia on social security for the time being sounds quite far-reaching and not immediately after extreme urgency. But if you look at the figures, you can see that a lot of people are affected, for which it is very important that there is this agreement. In Austria, 879 people currently receive an Australian pension under this agreement, and these benefits would not be granted without this agreement, ladies and gentlemen! On the other hand, Öster- rich currently in 7 736 cases pensions to Australia, among them are also very many Austrians who live in Australia and benefit from the payment of these pensions. With regard to the history of this agreement adopted in 1992, it should be noted that there were additional agreements first in 2001 and then in 2010 respectively, which led to a very vague legal situation. The current revision of this Treaty not only extends bilateral relations with Australia, but also updates the structure of the Agreement, which has already become very unclear by the two additional agreements. However, since most of the new rules were in line with those of the current agreement, there were no new financial implications either. So we see that this revision means not only simplification and simplification in the administrative process for those concerned, but also further improvement of the relationship with Australia.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e19038	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. How to vote on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty in 779 of the Supplements in accordance with Article 50(l) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 Z 1 Federal Constitutional Act to grant approval. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. [[21:38:08]] 18. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on amendment 844/A(E) by Mr Mag. Gerald Loacker, colleagues in the development of “reconstruction instead of expansion” models to ensure adequate care and sustainable financing (834, e.g.) 19. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 845/A(E) by Mr Mag. Gerald Loacker, colleagues in relation to the target group for appropriate care (835 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e19096	We shall now proceed to points 18 and 19 of the agenda on which the debate will be held under one. There was no oral reporting. [[Abg. Schimanek: (in the direction of the German Minister of Dog Torfer (Federal Minister of Rosarotem) you can see through the pink glasses today!]] Mr Magistrate has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e19133	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! I feel that the Members of the Liberals are jealous because the Minister is wearing pink glasses today. But probably he'll take you a blue one once you have a urgent request. That could be the case. For care: On the subject of long-term finance, we want to go beyond NEOS. [[Abg. Schimanek: He certainly didn't take the glasses because of the NEOS!]] Didn't he? I wouldn't have been there without you, Mrs. Colleague. [[Federal Minister Hundstorfer: I didn't even pay for it because I got it!]] [[Abg. Schimanek: From the NEOS?- Oh, my God!]] [[General hustle and bustle.]] We're learning the Minister paid for his glasses. In any case, we want to look forward to the long-term financing of the care system. We do not see the goal of making it more difficult to access the low care levels – as it has now been done. It is also not achieved much if the care fund is extended until 2018 without alternatives. We believe that in the field of care, great steps are necessary, as is the case in the health field. There's going to be a health reform, so we're talking about Health in All Policies. You have a holistic access. We have not reached a long time in the care sector, with the consequence that the people in Austria are getting older, but that they spend relatively many years – in international comparison – in not so good health. What we need as a central objective is a comprehensive and needs-based care system, whose financing can also be ensured over a longer period of time. There are great challenges to us. 80 percent of people want to be cared for in their usual environment. Half of them are now in the lower care levels. If, as has been done in recent years, we make access to the lower care levels more difficult, then it is also more difficult for domestic care to take place there, and it is increasingly likely that the health status of such persons will deteriorate further and that they will get into a situation much faster in which it is no longer done with domestic care or that the caregivers will no longer be able to afford it. There is also the valorization that was decided to drop a drop on the hot stone. There is great cost to such a family when someone is in need of care at home; and once you need a 24-hour care, even with all public grants, there is a lot of money to spend. If there is too much to spend, a short stay in the hospital can also quickly end up for the person in need of care in the nursing home. Then it's expensive and ineffective. We have a complex, fragmented system to do with care in Austria. We have intrusive funding flows. We have different individual interests – like everywhere the federal states have their fingers in the game – and we also have an access regulation in the form of gatekeeping, which leads to the high levels that are actually judged according to a cost logic whether someone comes in or not. In addition, we have parallel structures through care cases that are cared for in the health system. At the same time, the Court of Auditors reports on nursing homes which are poorly burdened. I come myself from a city where there is a nursing home that is charged 55 percent. We need to get out of these old structures. We need to discuss, free of ideology and evidence based on how we can solve the problem of care, how we can achieve quality assurance throughout Austria. We see a clear way here: We need in-depth debates and not just a purely savings-oriented debate on care money. We need changes in the system that work in the long term. That's what you need to start sometime. That's a process; it's not going from today to tomorrow. We would have liked to see this beginning. Here we want to draw best practice models from the international comparison to Austria. There is still a great deal to be done if the financial flows are also better coordinated and the principle of money is followed by performance. My speaking time has expired. In the interests of ensuring long-term care in Austria, we hope for your support.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e19221	The next item is the speech by Mr Spindelberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e19242	Mr Loacker! In your request, Federal Minister Hundstorfer has asked him to have a study on the potential for savings resulting from changing the system from the cots in hospitals to transitional cots. I should like to say in advance that we have rejected this proposal in committee, but not because we are opposed to developing necessary strategies for planning adequate care, or even because we would be opposed to getting under control of the rising costs that already arise on account of the ageing population alone. No, we were against this request because the situation is quite different, namely that, if and where nursing beds are built, they fall exclusively into the competence of the countries. Now I already know that this competence confusion of the population is completely no matter, because people simply want a meaningful regime. It also doesn't matter who finances the care in Austria. People also don't care that the federal government has created a care fund beyond the care money, in order to manage the enormous increase rates for the countries and for the communities. What we need is meaningful structures. Allow me, therefore, to ask whether it is sufficient – I would like to say this self-critically – for the Federal Government, countries and social security to agree two years ago on setting up a partnership target management system for the planning, organisation and financing of the Austrian health care system. If the media keep talking about the fact that nothing goes on in politics, I ask those who are talking about the fact that they do not want to continue as they did in the past, a clear and clear question: Do you want or do we want to hang on the gangband of the national conference? Do we continue to enjoy the luxury that we – for example only – have nine different youth protection laws, nine construction regulations, or that every head of state can build hospitals, where and how many he wants, although we already have enough beds? – I am thinking only of the speech that the Minister of Finance has given today: Every day without reforms is a lost day. That's what I'm asking: Do we really have the courage to talk seriously, talk about new divisions of competence in Austria and the Making the whole thing different? – Now I say my private opinion: At the latest since EU accession, the legislative bodies in the countries of my humble opinion have survived.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e19275	The next item is Mrs Ing. Dietrich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e19299	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! As my previous speaker has already said, the countries have a huge competence in the care sector, and this is so different that no person with normal home mind can understand and understand that the equipment of the rooms, the size of the rooms and the staff use are regulated in different countries, as if the citizens from Vorarlberg to Burgenland did not have the same demands to be maintained high-quality. Ladies and gentlemen, we have very often addressed this issue in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, because we believe it is high time to set uniform minimum standards on the part of the Federal Government. The right time to speak clearly with the countries would now be in the course of the financial compensation. It can't be that the countries switch and operate according to their own opinion, as they want – especially in the care area, in the homes, from the subject promotion to the promotion of objects. There are also federal states that have mixed funding. The whole system in such a small country is so complicated. I think an administrative reform would be very timely. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Estimated ladies and gentlemen, 450 000 people are getting care benefits. The trend goes up in an ageing society, i.e. more and more care benefits will be obtained, more and more care cases will become. This is a huge challenge that we must face if we want the generation agreement to be respected. If we do not succeed in making the burden acceptable to the younger generations, we will probably have a problem in a few decades, namely, if the disciples say that they no longer want to afford to spend so much money on the older generation. In this sense, we will agree to both of the NEOS' requests, because we consider it reasonable that an evaluation be carried out to determine where there is savings, whether it is useful to convert cots into short-term cots, and that you look at the whole system carefully, carefully analysed in order to take a path that is sustainable for generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e19338	Mrs Mag. Aubauer will speak next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e19359	Madam President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Yes, it is always good when we talk about care, because our goal is to provide people in care who need our help with the best possible quality. If you, Mr Loacker, want to take great steps, let us look at where we stand in Austria. We stand at a very high level in Austria. The benefits have recently been significantly expanded, for example the dementia allowance, the 24-hour care, the social insurance of caregivers from Stage 3 onwards, which was a very, very important concern for us, the care fund increased, the care care care care car introduced. And as we have already said, the care money from January will be increased by 2 per cent for all – quite, very important. Yes, we have high standards, but of course there is also a need for reforms, such as a reform of care services, to be effective in the course of the financial compensation. We have heard it today, every day without reform is a lost day. No one can understand why one needs for a certain home place 19 different booking flows between home, between government, between community, between country. This money could truly be used more efficiently and effectively. Mr Loacker, Mr Spindelberger has already given clear answers to your specific requests. Care is a matter of the countries. But what I would like to emphasize in particular is what all of our concerns are – and here we and indeed agree – we want to make all the hospice and palliative care available and manageable for all people in Austria. We have a six-party agreement to do so, and these recommendations should now be implemented quickly. It really needs more speed, ladies and gentlemen. Yes, we want to enable for all people in Austria a durable hospice and palliative care. To this end, the rapid deployment of a competent hospice coordinator would be very helpful and a first step towards getting closer to our goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e19420	Mrs Mag. Schwentner will speak next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e19441	Madam President. Minister! With regard to care and adequate care in old age, everyone seems to be very agreed. I also think that we all want to know that people of old are well cared for and also that they have a good place at home, a good place in a day hospital or also in an elderly home or nursing home. What has been the subject several times today and what I absolutely support is the question of whether we can ensure this care from Lake Neusiedler to Lake Constance in the West. Is that the same thing anywhere? For example, I've been looking at Bregenz's care projects lately. There are very exemplary things about the placement of 24-hour caregivers, namely not as large wild growth as in other countries, but a much more manageable situation and thus a better guarantee that people get good caretakers home. And there's a pretty good expansion of case and care management. That always sounds so abstract, but that's something relatively simple: You can see what exactly the person needs in the situation and whether it also gets the right place or the right form of care or care at the moment when it is necessary. What happens in Bregenz or Vorarlberg in general is not guaranteed throughout Austria, and this is something about which the care fund – which is being negotiated in the near future or anyway in the near future – should ensure that this becomes increasingly the same. I know you won't be able to do that from one day to the next. I know this terriblely incomparable situation in the federal states. We have discussed in the Committee a request on which we do not vote, namely the Stronach team on the staff keys in nursing homes. This too is so different that the care fund will probably not be able to do everything over a comb, but we must probably move in this direction in order to ensure that there are certain standards for people, regardless of postal code and country border, that ensure that they are well. This is also a matter of collective bargaining. In the Länder, care homes require quite a very different amount of money for some of them the same care. It is not to be seen why people with the same care allowance they receive receive receive very different benefits when they come to their home or hospital care or just to day care. Although we agree with Gerald Loacker and the NEOS request in the findings – at least in the explanatory statement – I cannot support him because I do not believe – at least as far as this target control group is concerned – that this is the right answer. There was a reform work group for the Federation, there is actually a well-listed infinite number of things to do. It's not like you're going to have another working group – according to the motto: If I don’t remember anymore, I’ll have a working group! – should finally take note of what the reform work group has already worked out, and should include in the care funds, namely what is agreed with the countries and the federal government, in order to finally ensure that people in Austria are cared for equally well regardless of your postal code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e19486	Mrs Dr Belakovich-Jenewein spoke next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e19508	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, many have already said everything, but it has not yet been said by all. First of all, the care allowance: It is not quite clear to me why the request is rejected to create a study here, where one could actually find cost-damaging effects in the health field, because this is now only a matter of where there are possibilities to convert cots into cots. We all know that cots are much more expensive, you know, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, and they are still covered with care patients. That's actually a shame. If you believe that the Court of Auditors' calculations are 100%, this would be a savings potential of €3 billion a year. Faith You just keep him half! There is a huge potential for savings, so it is not quite clear to me why one should not even create such a study. We know that there is now – we have heard a budget speech today – an increase in the amount of care, a slight valorization. However, this cannot be comforted by the fact that there has never been an increase in recent years, so we are far away from the original intention of the care allowance – namely that the person to be cared for can actually buy himself benefits. Since the introduction of the care allowance, we now have a total loss of well over 30 percent. To this end, Mr Federal Minister, under your aegide, access to the care allowance has been made more difficult twice, especially to Stages 1 and 2. We know, however, that far more than half of all care providers are exactly in these stages. These are those who do not have a very difficult but a lighter care needs. So something has already happened, which I think is a sign in the completely wrong direction. I think these people just need our support. Saving up there is the wrong way. The following has already been said correctly today: If I save on the care money now, I might have it twice and triple more expensive in a few years. So it's the question whether this is not just a big deal you've done here. I therefore believe that it would be really useful to do such a study here, and that is why we will also agree to this request. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Federal Minister, I do not hide that although it is nice to have an inflation adjustment now, we have been calling for an automatic annual inflation adjustment for a very long time – and you know that, I think, in the interests of those concerned. This would also really help those concerned so that they can at least partially afford themselves to live up to the age of old.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e19556	The next item is Mr Hell. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e19577	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The care and care of the elderly has become a central issue in our Austrian social policy. There are about 455,000 men and women, about 5 percent of the Austrian population who are currently entitled to care benefits. Due to demographic development and the likely rise in life expectancy, this figure is expected to continue to rise in the next few years. It is therefore not about savings, but about further development in the care and care of older people. Due to the great challenges that arise in this area – I believe we agree that we want to ensure the good and high quality of long-term care in Austria – we need constant adaptations. Many steps have already been taken by the Federal Ministry in recent years to secure this care system further financially. This led to a major reform of care funds in 2012, with a major structural and administrative reform. This proposal 835 of the supplements, which is also available for treatment today, calls for a national-wide target control group for the development of appropriate tools for the collection and planning of adequate care. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In the context of the grant of the assistance from the care fund, extensive data on the care services offered by the countries are already being collected. The key figures obtained from the care service databases are also the basis for all evaluations. (ii) the development of the national care and service provision. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen, we will therefore not vote in favour of the proposal today. We simply do not see any need, as these data are already available.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e19623	Mr Mag. Hammer's next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e19644	Madam President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I too would like to talk about care, and I am pleased to say that we also have the opportunity in plenary to talk about it once again, even if the requests underlying it cannot be found and implemented by the majority. Generally speaking, it is so – and I believe that should be put to the fore – that we in Austria have very good regulations. The impression that it is sometimes conveyed that it is a complete confusion and that you need corresponding changes cannot be completely shared. I do not think it is a matter of establishing uniform, Austrian-wide regulations, but there are different regulations, different forms of organisation and offers at the federal level, but it is always aimed at making them as close to citizens as possible as possible. This is also what people want in the field of care. One should not always talk about unifying things, because the delivery just works very well in the area. Of course, it is also necessary – and this has already been mentioned by previous speakers – to unite some standards. There are many approaches to defining minimum standards and guidelines here within the framework of the care fund and also within the framework of the structural reform care working group, but it is important to maintain flexibility at federal and country level. I think that's the right way. On the applications themselves: The NEOS application, the conversion of cots into transitional cots, is certainly a superior approach, but one should not build an additional bureaucracy at the level of target control groups. I think it would also be in the health field, and one would also have to question the practical suitability. The second request to introduce a care target group: I believe that this is just an additional bureaucracy, because at the country level there are plans for needs and development, which will ensure exactly the necessary expansion. The care fund provides some degree of guidance, and these needs and development plans, which the countries make, also react very flexibly to the corresponding developments. To give just one example: Of course, the expansion or massive increase in 24-hour care has been massively reflected in these plans, so that the stationary care beds are reduced. I believe that this need-based expansion, which is close to home at national and local level, is the right way, and it should be maintained.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e19692	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 18. Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 834 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on agenda item 19: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 835 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[22:05:55]] 20. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on amendment 1133/A(E) by Mr Peter Wurm, colleagues in relation to the financial burden on electricity customers by "Smart Meter" (836d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e19757	This brings us to Agenda item 20. There was no oral reporting. I call Mr Wurm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e19784	Madam President. Minister for Consumer Protection Hundstorfer! [[The speaker places a panel with the image of a smart meter on the speaker's desk.]] – I’ve seen it, you’ve seen the new miracle weapon; the new miracle weapon against energy waste, for energy saving: the so-called smart meter – a very exciting story, I’m trying to explain it briefly. What can this smart meter do? – In principle, he can count electricity once. That's not exciting, you'll say. He can or could of course be more, and this story, which the smart meter can do more, I will then reveal later. But first of all to the history of the Smart Meter: We are talking about a volume of sales of €21 billion. It is an exciting story, relatively lightly enlightened. The history of the origin is of course in our beautiful Brussels. A very official lobbying agency, namely the ESMIG, has found itself, and has convinced the Commission to use this smart meter now, all over Europe. In Austria, we are talking about costs of € 1 billion, and the companies involved in Europe are well known and renounced. We are talking about Siemens, about Kapsch, we are talking about IBM, some other companies and a very large Scandinavian company named Tigo. This is relatively easy to explain: Some have found themselves, the business is clear, and Brussels and all of us, including our federal government, have said: Okay, that's what we're doing now, we're going to commit all of Europe to the smart meter! What can this smart meter do now? – In principle, it can save between 1.2 percent and 1.8 percent of your private electricity consumption at home – sensationally. Sensational, for 21 billion €! That's how I should have been, because some have earned very well. [[Abg. Wheelers: Everyone can buy what they want!]] But what else can the Smart Meter do? – Now we are on the two topics that are very relevant, namely data protection and costs. Let's go to data protection: The smart meter is something like a little spy at your home, James Bond 007 lets greet you. That is, the smart meter does nothing but record your private, personal behavioral patterns, how you consume electricity, and send it to the headquarters every quarter of an hour. This results in you saving between 1.2 and 1.8 percent of electricity if you change your behavior in terms of electricity. This is also the accusation to the Minister for Consumer Protection, who has been making himself very thin in the Consumer Protection Committee for a year and a half, including on this issue, and for me this is a classic consumer protection issue. This concerns all households in Austria. That is all, about 5 million households in Austria, have to install this smart meter, whether we want it or not. Now we come to the exciting point, I also asked: Is there the famous option of opt-out, that is, can I refuse the system? – There comes a very clear statement from Minister Mitterlehner: There is no right to opt-out. That means, even if you say at home: Okay, I don't want that because what's going on is almost anyone else's power consumption!, you don't have a legal right to reject this device. In my opinion, the fact that the Minister for Consumer Protection is watching Hundstorfer and this issue is now being moved back to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs is already very questionable, and I believe that not all of Austria is questionable. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You have a spy at home that passes on your personal behavior, and the data protection is completely cancelled. Let's get to the cost factor: This almost one billion euros will of course be paid to the consumer. Who else should pay it? You will also have running costs, because it is a software integrated. It can be said that consumers have costs of 89 € per year in addition – that's not what anyone is discussing. Mr Hundstorfer's reply was also quite simple. He has written to me that he wants to look at how this story develops, then he will evaluate it accordingly, and if he has experiences – that is, sometime in 2019 when the story is about the stage – he will tell us, if he is still in service, what the effects were. This is a system that is no longer reversible. The Federal Government and also the National Council have agreed to this, which is totally incomprehensible to me. It does not bring cost savings – quite the contrary, it is a mega-business for some companies – and the data protection remains on track. [[Calls and calls between representatives of FPÖ and Greens.]] Finally, a quote concerning electricity consumption and changes in personal behaviour: “After some time, the washing machine will be switched on again by most when the dirt is storming, and not when the tariff fits.” – Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e19859	The next item is the speech by Mr Wimmer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e19880	Madam President. Federal Minister Hundstorfer! My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! A very high-tech discussion is a real challenge at such a late hour. Therefore, at the last meeting, the Committee has allocated this item to the Economic and Social Committee. I think that was a very successful decision and we will have the opportunity to discuss in detail and make a very good decision there. But perhaps two more comments on Mr Worm's speech: The FPÖ wants to orient itself here on the German model. I think that is not quite possible because Austria and Germany are not comparable. In Germany, the appliances have to be paid directly by the households, and there is an investment immediately. In Austria this is handled differently, here other possibilities are created through network costs. That is why I believe that we should hold this discussion if sufficient time is available, this is in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and that this will take place, and so we would leave it today. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e19919	Mrs Fichtinger is next mentioned. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e19941	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! For 100 years, the mechanical counters, called the Ferrari counters, have been in use for measuring the power consumption, named after Italian physicist Galileo Ferrari; they are probably not known yet, but can be found on the Internet. In this purely analog measurement procedure, the customer receives an energy bill once a year, which we all know. The fact that smart meters – as Mr. Worm has suggested – are quite new is not true, they have been used by large customers for 20 years. Technological progress must therefore not be completely rejected. Through Smart Meter, the customer can also be informed about the actual energy consumption during the year, which is either possible in writing or directly via display. This also makes switching to special tariffs easier or should be easier; this may also be interesting for weekend houses or for families using a heat pump in the house. The customer can also switch faster and easier to cheap rates. Through Smart Meter the tariff can be retrieved automatically at any time. It is definitely interesting if energy operators change or change the tariff. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, attention must be paid to the financial burden on consumers. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: A billion, Mrs. Colleague!]] It is therefore appropriate to assign this request to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy in order to take a closer look at the further procedure and to explain it more accurately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e19982	Mr Hundstorfer, Federal Minister, spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e20004	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I understand, of course, that on every move she thinks she can score somewhere, the Freedom Party picks up. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: My God!]] What are we really talking about? – We are talking about a decision that Europe made in 2008; 2008! Faith You really, Mr. Worm, that four companies have so much power that 500 million Europeans are hopping? [[Abg. Listen, you don't believe that!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] – Faith Is that what you really do? Do you think all Europeans are so naïve? - No, Mr. Worm. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] Please, don't overestimate yourself. - That's one point. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In 2009, there was a common Internal Market Directive, which adopted this; it was a joint decision of all European countries. I believe that all European countries have not made such a decision easy. The big question is: What has happened since then, and what has happened nationally? – In 2013, we decided on the privacy issue here in the house after the 2013 stand. The question of data protection in this House has been adequately secured and decided by constitutional majority. - That's the point. What Mr Wimmer said about the clarification: Why are the costs different? – In the Federal Republic of Germany it must pay the individual budget itself. We have chosen a different way from home in Austria. With us, all network customers, industry, industry, all pay for this introduction. We have totally flattened this, because, as has already been mentioned, the industry has had this for a long time, but still has to pay for the domestic customer, for the implementation of these measuring instruments. What is also clear somewhere is that – in a world that is moving into digitalization, in a world where many customers and customers, namely all of us, have become producers of electricity themselves and many of us live in single-family homes and produce electricity with photovoltaics themselves – it is no longer possible to create this with an old analogue device. [[Abg. Peter Wurm: Voluntarily, Minister!]] You too would have to understand that this is not possible. [[Abg. Peter Worm:... everyone who wants it!]] – You also have to understand that this is not possible. And that we exchange a device that was developed over 100 years ago, sometime technologically in the digitalized world, that should also be understood and taken note of. [[In the case of the SPÖ, representatives of the ÖVP and the Agg. Lightenecker.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] A number of points have already been raised, which will bring about this in the future. You know that we didn't make the privacy issue easy at all. The e-control, which in Austria has a very, very critical position with the so-called electricity producers, has also not made it quite easy. The E-Control has commissioned its own opinions; its own opinion on how these installation costs really impact. These opinions – and I have already tried to explain this to you in committee – came to the conclusion: In Austria, a very cost-neutral, a very reasonable conversion funding has been chosen for the customer. The long speech short sense: It is true that we have come to the decision – both because of a study by the relevant institute, I have forgotten to mention first, but also the Energy Control Austria – to view this comprehensive installation in Austria as a cheaper nationally. To the Federal Republic of Germany, I can tell you that in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Energy, which is responsible there, too, since 21. In September there will be a corresponding decision to continue the installation in Germany from 2020 onwards. That is, there has already been this change in the sense between what was decided in 2009 and that of continuing here. I think we're on the right track. We are on our way to digitalization, into a world in which the customer can decide much more himself, in which the customer becomes more and more electricity producers, and as a result, this decision is the right way. I know, Mr Worm, that we are trying to do something about the Consumer Protection Committee. You're always gonna hop somewhere on it. I am not the chairman of the committee, I cannot invite you, I cannot invite you to a committee meeting; as far as I think you know the Rules of Procedure of the House. [[Abg. Pendl: I'm not sure!]] However, the committee chairman in charge told me, I think it was last Friday, that he finally found an appointment for us to see, which will be at the beginning of December. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e20126	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Steinhauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e20148	Mr. Minister of Consumer Protection! “The customer” can “choose more” – this statement has never been less correct than at this point. The National Council decided two years ago at the Smart Meter an opt-out, the possibility that the individual customer can refuse a smart meter. That means he has the right to vote. This freedom of choice is practically trampled on by the energy companies. I get a lot of subscriptions, and I can't imagine you don't get them as a consumer protection minister – not a single one?, then I'll send them to you – where customers complain that this opt-out is not possible. [[Federal Minister Hundstorfer: No one!]] [[Federal Minister Hundstorfer: Please!]] That's the truth: Either it's said that this isn't going on, or, variant two, it's said, you can already opt out, but there's going to be a device that makes a single difference to the smart meter: It is switched off the quarter-hour interval. All other functions remain, namely the remote possibility and the timely measurement, because the time-consuming measurement only takes the day interval. That means you switch off a function and say that now this device is no longer intelligent. - That's absurd! This is actually a mogel pack when the smart meter is hung in and a single function is turned off. The customer can't decide anything, that's the point. We have here passed a law that in practice will step with feet and be avoided, because you simply don't want to change anything at the rollout of the smart meter. The Germans did it differently. The Germans originally planned a rollout similar to Austria, but they realized that this would not make sense economically. And what did they do? That's what the application is trying to understand. They have said that only those households that have an annual consumption of more than 6,000 kilowatt hours should be equipped, because it may only be paying out there. - That was the first one. Second: The Smart Meter is equipped with significantly less functions. For example, the remote control function, which would be a massive attack point for hackers on our energy system, does not make the Germans at all because they consider them dangerous, thereby making the smart meter cheaper. Now for the economic benefits: It is clear that we have a strong focus on energy policy considerations. If households would consume less because they have a smart meter, it would make sense. But what is the truth? – Those who have a smart meter and want to use the ecological need additional components that cost again. Secondly, you have to deal intensively with the data at the smart meter, and you have to be technically sophisticated so that the data can also be translated into connection with the devices. Those who have this knowledge and operate this effort are really nothing but a powerful consumer who is already considering when buying a device, which consumes a device, and who makes his household energy efficient. That is to say, there is a lot of money spent on those target groups that may already live ecologically consciously, and therefore the benefits in this area are relatively low. There is much more to be achieved with education. The European Union – and I have to correct my colleagues – does not make this as hard as it is being interpreted here. Austria is the smart-meter pattern student, because the European Union says that it is possible to check economic efficiency, and only if there is economic efficiency, it should be rolled out to this extent. The e-control is doing these studies and, unlike many other European countries, comes to this alleged cost-effectiveness which is not actually comprehensible in these studies. I am not a friend of conspiracy theorists, but that there are economically massive interests of large companies behind the introduction and sale of new products, so that is obvious, and that of course, studies also give these desired results are also obvious. The directive would allow exactly what this request wants: that only energy-intensive households should be provided for the smart meter and that the rollout should be significantly reduced. That would make sense, that would be consumer-friendly, and that would be cheaper. But – and you have to say that as much as I support this request – you already have to take the FPÖ into account, because it was actually the FPÖ that agreed to the introduction of the Smart Meter – together with the SPÖ and the ÖVP; at that time you thought differently. In December 2010, the legal framework for the Smart Meter has been implemented here in the National Council, and these three parties have agreed, and that is what you have to say. I am glad if you change your mind and think it is good that there is this request, but if you did not deliver the two-thirds majority at the time, the rollout would not be possible to do so. So much on the subject – and then we complete it –: Who is offering two-thirds of the majority, and who is negotiating hard? – I think this is an example that shows clearly who is negotiating hard and who is fast at it, even if it obviously leads him afterwards. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e20203	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 836 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. I accept Amendment No 1133/A(E) to the Committee on Economic and Industrial Affairs. [[22:27:33]] 21. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 639/A(E) by Mr Marcus Franz, colleagues, on the reduction of GIS charges for visually impaired people (837, e.g.) 22. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on motion for a resolution (Doc. Dagmar Belakovich-Jenewein, colleagues on the end of discrimination against Halsatmern at § 29b StVO ID (838 d.b.) 23. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 1178/A(E) by Dr Dagmar Belakovich-Jenewein, colleagues on the regular valorization and safeguarding of care costs (839 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e20282	We shall now proceed to points 21 to 23 of the agenda, on which the debate will be held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e20309	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, it is a number of different applications, oppositional applications: First of all, there is the request concerning the reduction of GIS charges for visually impaired people by Mr Marcus Franz. I think this is a very useful request, because the ORF programme is in fact not available for 24 hours, but only for a maximum of six hours a day, especially for people with a difficult vision or for the blind. That means, these people can actually, even if they want, watch only a few hours in the ORF. The problem was – and this was what we heard in the Committee – that the GIS charges depend on income. This may be regulated by law. But the question is: Is it a fair system? – So if you don’t have the opportunity to follow a program for 24 hours, because you just can’t do it because of your disability, I would mean: There's a change in the law here. That is how I understood this request, so we understood it, and that is why we see it as useful. I believe that we need to do much more for blind and visually impaired people in this area. Mr. Federal Minister, there is currently a large advertising campaign in the ORF of your home for accessibility from 1. January 2016. It would now be useful, if you were already running the big advertising campaign over the ORF, to perhaps try at the ORF to look and press that all programs will also be translated for visually impaired people in the two-channel tone. That would be something that would be useful; then the GIS fees would also be justified. So it's a disparity between people with disabilities, and you shouldn't like that. The second request is a request from me, and this is about discrimination against so-called halzatmers. We have shown this in the example of a person concerned: For a neck breather that is 70 percent disabled, which therefore always has to carry a whole convolut to be equipped in the case of cases, it is possible, because of its physical constitution, to use public transport, but this is very cumbersome and not always very pleasant. I think it would be possible to consider here, too, which groups of disabled people are actually poorly removed in public transport. You said in committee – I have a little bit of it in my ear – all of Austria now needs a parking pass. I wouldn't see it like it was so bad. I know that there was also the argument that we have established clear rules here, clear cases. However, the question is whether, in some cases, one should not also implement a case-by-case arrangement and a case-by-case assessment. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: That's it!]] No, there is no such thing as that, Mrs Colleague, because otherwise it could not have happened. With someone for whom it is a real effort to get into a tram – the man lives in Vienna – for whom this is really a difficult process, this has simply been rejected. I'd think you should have a little more sensitivity there. I am not of the opinion that every person, just because he has a disability – no matter what – should immediately receive a parking card; but one should consider in a single case assessment whether one can interpret the law in a different way, I say now, in some seriously handicapped people who are still very ill for this purpose. I think it would be useful to do something for this group of people. Again: Mr Minister, I saw yesterday you advertise for accessibility. Please also implement them, and live them too!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e20346	Reported as follows: Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e20369	Madam President. Estimated Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would like to comment on Mr Franz's request. This is about reducing the GIS charges for visually impaired people. Mrs Belakovich-Jenewein has already mentioned this in her remarks. At the moment, the exemption is regulated by the Telecommunications Fees Act. The liberation is currently aimed at income: There are income limits to which you can be exempt from the fees. This allows care providers to submit requests, compensation recipients, emergency aid recipients. The GIS exemption had also been granted to all care providers without income limits until 2004 in the novelle. This has been changed at the time, because we have just said that we want to take particular account of income in this exemption. The Ministry of Finance is legally responsible, so we will grant this request as well. I think everyone will vote. I can't say whether you're going to get an agreement on a reduction here today. At the moment it is so that you can only be freed completely; There are currently no reductions in the telecommunications fee system. My colleague, Mr Hechtl, will say a few things about the discrimination of the necksmen. Just, Mrs. Belakovich-Jenewein, it is true that there are exactly the individual case tests according to § 29b of the law. This is why we do not want to include taxatative “disability groups” – under quotation marks – in § 29b, because the individual case test should in any case be carried out. I think that is also a good solution. In this case, you have to look at exactly why it has come to pass. In the normal case, I think you should really leave it on a case-by-case check. I would like to say one more word on your other request, concerning the valorization of the care allowance. For the spectators – if there are any more – I would like to remind you once again that in Austria, 5 percent of people receive care benefits. This is an enormously high value in European comparison. We spend around €2.2 billion on care money in the year. Even if you always say, Mrs Belakovich-Jenewein, that the difficulties in Stage 1 and 2 have led to a reduction: That's not true! Nevertheless, the care money has become more in total, because the people involved are getting more. I think it is a great challenge in the field of care money or care, to see the care as a whole. In his term of office, Federal Minister Hundstorfer has now increased the care allowance three times. I think that can be seen too. We will still have to work a lot to ensure care. But we cannot agree with the annual valorization at the moment.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e20413	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Jarmer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e20434	Madam President. High house! Mr. Minister! With regard to television and GIS fees, you must not forget – I would like to remind you here as well –, 2009 we have this on paper brought: The ORF Act has been decided that accessibility must be created. So that this information is also disseminated everywhere: Subtitles have been available for decades. By 2009 we have moved in the range of 35 percent. Now, according to the law decision, we are 75 percent, saying: Unheard-of people experience 75 percent subtitles. But for blind people there is still much too little audio writing. It needs more audio writing and audio comments. Until that law, there were only 1,000 hours of audio-description; now we are at 8,000. That sounds like a lot, this eight-fold increase, but do you know how much percent we're talking about? – Of almost 3 percent of the total offer that audio is descripted! It was said in 2003: Obey people and visually impaired people must pay the same amount. – However, you get less service as access is not granted: Full amount for not full offer! Of course, it also has political reasons for this to happen. There is a public service contract: The ORF is obliged to ensure the same information for all people, the same access. That's a duty, that's the task you have to do. It is not allowed to exclude groups of people. We would be already on the topic of the Council of the Public: You know, in the audience council, people are in secondary functions. The Federal Chancellor also determines the positions of those who are allowed to sit there. Women speak for women, young people for young people and seniors for seniors. But there is no one affected by the group of people with disabilities on the spot! There is also a violation of the UN Convention, for when talking about disability policy, those affected should do so. That is not the case right now, and that is not all right. The times are over when people who are not disabled have not spoken for disabled people! The ORF must include people with disabilities there and also follow the employment obligation. This has not yet happened. Access to accessibility has not yet been established. And the third thing is: The level plan of the ORF must be reviewed. If the goals are achieved, say 100 percent accessibility, will it be achieved or not? – There is no person here, no disabled person who checks this. The media are obliged to bring people with disabilities more to the public, not to hide them and not to say: The poor people, the poor disabled people, we don't show them, we hide them! And when they become employees sometime, they are stroked over their heads and say: Yes, be poor, be poor! These times are over! You don't need to hide anyone here anymore. These are customers, they are citizens with equal rights; they are also service providers and service providers. Important is: This must also be presented in the media! It's out there. [[Congratulation with Greens and FPÖ.]] That's why the public council needs to be changed. It must also be made accessible. It is also a task of the Federal Chancellor to ensure that not other people who are not affected are sitting there in this role. The people affected must also have something to say about this. Just a short while for the valorization of the care allowance: Of course, yes, in the European comparison there is care money in Austria, there is no such thing in other countries, but we have a different standard of living here. This is the only thing that can be done with a further valorization. The quality of life must be the same for all people! I repeat again and again: This is a green demand to be followed. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e20509	On the basis of an actual correction, Mrs Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein. You are aware of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e20534	Madam President. Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig said here that I would have said in my speech that access to the care allowance would have been difficult, and this was simply and simply wrong. I'm actually correcting: That's not wrong! That's right! Both in 2011 and in 2015 it was decided here with the votes of the two government parties that access to the care allowance in Stages 1 and 2 would be difficult.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e20567	Next item is the report by Mr Huainigg. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e20588	Madam President. Minister! High house! Should the GIS fee be reduced or abolished for blind people? – Well, they can’t see the whole television program, but I’m still against an abolition, because we had a fee exemption before 2004, and at the same time the ORF said that blind people are not customers, and he didn’t do anything, he didn’t subtitle or barely subtitle. However, since blind people are customers and pay the GIS fee – which my colleague Helene Jarmer has done very well – the extent of the subtitles and also the audio description has increased considerably. Therefore, I am in favour of blind people continuing to stay with ORF customers and that the ORF is also required to expand the subtitles and the audio description accordingly. I would like to talk about a second issue that has been discussed in the Committee. It's about the Nursing Act, that is, the GKG. Now, at a little late hour, it's about the health and nursing law. Disabled people are not ill, they want to live in the normal living environment. That means they should also be able to go to kindergarten and school. But if they are in need of care or need an assistance such as an insulin syringe, this is often not possible, as the pedagogists, nurses or teachers are not allowed to perform nursing activities. It would be important that there is also a delegation that care professionals should train the kindergartens and teachers to meet their needs, so that these activities would be delegated for the individual case, and that teachers may also visit the UBV, a basic module for care activities. I would ask you, Mr Minister, to speak with your colleague, Mr Oberhauser, in order to do so, because the equal participation is a question human dignity, and human dignity also belongs to the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e20631	The next speaker was Mrs Dietrich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e20652	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make three comments. First of all, Mr Franz, the request made by a Member of the ÖVP: I say that I have rarely considered a request to be as useful as the GIS fees. I think the second President will be my opinion that it is a pleasure to have such creative, intelligent people in his team who really have this empathy, who can feel themselves in people with disabilities and then want to move for this group of people. I assume that not only we and the ÖVP will support this request, but also that other mandates will agree in this room, especially since it is really about someone who is visually impaired and cannot consume all television programmes, only for what he can actually take advantage of. That makes sense, that is a wise access, and we will in any case give it our consent. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] We will also vote in favour of the FPÖ's request concerning the end of discrimination against the necks of the necks, because this group of persons is also seriously disadvantaged by life and the approach you have chosen is worthy of support from our point of view. The third request concerns the valorization of the care allowance. This is, I think, absolutely necessary. Especially when one is in the situation that one needs care, one must also have the right to self-determination. Self-determination is only possible in the area if you have sufficient financial resources to be able to shape the care you need in the way that you personally fit for one. The care allowance is a good and great facility in the Austrian state; we can be proud of it because it allows us to meet the desire that many people can be cared for at home. If they have the care money, they can make it that way. In this sense: From our side, from the Stronach team, a clear plus for all three applications!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e20701	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Loacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e20723	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! As soon as possible on the requests for debate: To abolish the GIS fee for visually impaired people, we think the wrong signal is when it comes to strengthening barrier-free broadcasts, increasing their number. If we look at what there is for initiatives, for example the “football4all” platform, which is committed to making more barrier-free offers for attention-free We see that the issue is important, but it is about creating an offer and not about getting the fee away. But you know the position of our group: We are willing to talk about the GIS in principle – but not in the Committee! On the request of the Freedom Party with regard to the conclusion of discrimination against halzatmers: Unfortunately, this is another request, where an individual case has been made to your group and you have made a request from it. In fact, this does not correspond to the size of your group in this form, since I would trust you to look at the whole thing. This is really about things that can be decided on a case-by-case basis. What we have very well assembled, even with the Minister, is the length of the procedures generally in such cases, and the Minister has also told us that he will accept the problem and that this will be dealt with quickly. Valorisation of the care allowance: We believe that it is not about how high the care allowance is concrete, but about something else. We always talk about how much we pay, but we never talk about what we're supposed to pay and what's paid for. And precisely for this reason, because we want to address it from the other side, we do not go along with this request. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e20768	The next item is the report by Mr Hechtl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e20789	Madam President. Federal Minister! Appreciate High House! I would like to take a very brief look at Amendment No 1227/A(E) on the subject of Halsatmer. My colleague, Königsberger-Ludwig, has made it very short, I would like to add that there has been an agreement between the countries, say country representatives, that the decision has been taken at the federal level – a decision which has been agreed that a so-called 29b card will then be issued to the almsammers if the inadmissibility of the use of public transport is recorded in the identity card. Ladies and gentlemen, I can only confirm once again – and I would also like to say this here – that in each case the Federal Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is very carefully examined whether such a parking ticket is issued or not. The experts believe that a diagnosis-related and flat-rate assessment of the decision to grant such a right from their point of view – as well as from our point of view – is not intended and that the existing regulation, as it is written down, is sufficient, practical and also targeted. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Social democracy or my group is always working for people with special needs, for people with disabilities, and especially for those who need our help. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] But we see in this approach at the exhibition no discrimination, unlike you, Mrs Belakovich-Jenewein!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e20838	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. This means that we can vote on each of the Committee's proposals separately. We shall first proceed to the vote on agenda item 21: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 837 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. I accept Amendment No 639/A(E) to the Financial Committee. We shall also proceed to the vote on agenda item 22: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 838 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on agenda item 23: Proposal from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 839 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[22:55:00]] 24. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 487/A(E) by Mrs Ing. Waltraud Dietrich, colleagues on “Regional value added in the best bidder principle in the award of construction contracts for Austrian jobs” (840 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e20924	We're getting to the 24th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Wurm has been reported to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e20951	Madam President. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! We are debating today the topic of the best bidder principle in the construction sector in Austria instead of the low-cost bidder principle – a demand that we have set for years. This also demands the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Workers. Today we have three hours on unemployment and on the question: What can we do about it in Austria?, discussed. Here we would have a very practical example of how we could reduce unemployment in Austria, especially in the construction sector, because if we applied the best bidder principle, then the entire value chain would remain regionally in Austria and Then we could also secure jobs. This would therefore have very great advantages for the entire economy and for the employees. Mr Muchitsch has repeatedly supported this, and therefore I do not fully understand why the government parties ÖVP and SPÖ now want to pass this request on to the Constitutional Committee. For me and for us, the issue is quite clearly a social one and should therefore be dealt with in the Committee on Social Affairs. Very briefly: We currently have a red-blue state government in Burgenland. I can quote here how the government agreement between Red and Blue is set out in this question: ‘An additional step must be to establish the best bidder principle instead of the cheapest bidder principle. This is meant to be small and medium-sized enterprises” – ÖVP, please listen! – “encourage and secure strong and regional jobs for citizens’ countries! Public procurement is already carried out by the country in accordance with the best bidder principle, in municipalities and in private enterprises, this is often not the case because of lack of sensitivity and knowledge. By strengthening information (e.g. Akademie Burgenland (Akademie Burgenland), the best bidder principle is also to be established in local and private areas.” I would ask you to support this path towards best bidder, and thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e20997	Mr Muchitsch, you're next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e21018	Thank you very much, Madam President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr Wurm, it is so far: The novelle of the federal award law is back on track. The Constitutional Committee is responsible for this innovation. The Constitutional Committee will be set up on 9 June. ==References== We expect it to give the green light to those proposals that have been made in difficult negotiations at the social partners level over the last few months. I assume that the Constitutional Committee of the Council of Ministers has decided on 7 May. In July, the best bidder principle will be implemented in the framework of the novelle of the Federal Acquisition Act. And I also assume that we will be able to work out all the desires that are still taking place until the decision-making process, such as, for example, the wishes of agriculture with regard to more quality in agricultural products, and that the law will then be able to enter into force as soon as possible at the beginning of the year. I am looking for all the political forces here in the House to stop the decision-making of this novel, but to decide on it very quickly, because the construction industry needs this important sign that the best bidder principle needs to be announced from 2016 onwards. We thus create all the conditions for contracting authorities to get new tools into their hands legally, as they will have to write out in the future: full transparency in sub-contracting, sub-sub-sub-contracting, full approval. Then, those companies operating wage and social dumping will be excluded from public procurement, which is also an important point, and then SMEs can offer direct contracts for large-scale construction works and are no longer dependent on a general contractor. That's all. important points to keep jobs and regional value added in our country. I also thank all those parties who have signaled green light in recent weeks to support the best bidder principle in the federal procurement law. Mr Dietrich's request has also been accompanied by an important measure to create this awareness here in the House. [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] I do not want to mention here the two fathers who have created the whole thing, the two clubmen of the government parties, Reinhold Lopatka and Andreas Schieder. ==References====External links== August 2014 at a Achterl Ween in der Südsteiermark have said in intensive discussions with small and medium-sized enterprises: We want to do this, we're going to do it now! And that was the start of the parliamentary survey on this point. I am very confident that this will be implemented. Thank you very much for your support! - I wish you a nice evening.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e21069	Next speaker: Mrs Ing. Dietrich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e21091	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Muchich said that the best bidder principle in the southeastern Styria was discussed with Mr Lopatka in a glass of wine. I suppose he's going to start rescinding, just as he's used to. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] But, Mr Lopatka, this time it has not been possible to win from SPÖ to my colleague Muchich or someone else, but at least the colleague Muchich has managed to get a broad basis for this really important concern. We from the Stronach team have also vehemently used this best bidder principle because it is the right answer to globalisation from our point of view. We know that companies across the state border offer much cheaper than we can, than our companies can, and we need to think about protecting and strengthening the domestic economy. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] It was very interesting to me for the parliamentary survey, which was held on this subject, because it really showed that the best bidder principle can protect the domestic economy. However, it was also pointed out there that if additional criteria are not used very carefully in the tender, one can open the door and gate so that protection can run in such a way that the tender is tailored to the end of the businessman whom one wants to have will also receive the order. I believe that if we apply this best bidder principle, we must deal with it very carefully and very responsibly. I assume that it was taken into account during the deliberations. In this I am pleased if we can all take the right steps together for the domestic economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e21157	Next, Mr Magistrate. Big deal. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e21178	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. I believe that the path from the cheapest bidder to the best bidder is considered to be useful by all political groups. This has also been taken up by the government parties. There has also been a survey, and the request made by Mr Dietrich goes in this direction too. The question, however, is: What is the best bidder principle? This is not so easy to define. Is it only regionality? Is it value added? Is it self-production? What about the subcontractors? The social aspects have also been addressed. Can one prefer companies with apprenticeship training, with employee training? Can one rule out companies that have come into contact with wage and social dumping? Which ecological aspects are important? Which construction measures, which construction products are preferred? Which transport routes are taken into account? – All these points need to be properly called into question by the best bidder principle in order to get to the right system. On the basis of the Rules of Procedure, this request ended up in the wrong committee, which is why it is now allocated to the Constitutional Committee, and that is why the report came from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. We've heard today: We want to go back to the top! Mr Dietrich's request goes exactly in this direction, and the survey goes in this direction too. The best bidder principle is a contribution to making Austria better and improving our value added. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e21212	Next speaker: Dr. Lichtenecker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e21233	Mr President. Minister! Yes, the right to award is a highly complex matter. Nevertheless, we believe that this very principle of the best bidder must be applied not only in the construction industry but generally in all economic sectors. It is therefore quite a challenge to shape it accordingly. We also know that, especially in the public sector, the amount of orders is very high, depending on the calculation, one assumes from 16 to 20 percent of the gross domestic product. That is why it is, of course, a central element in how to design this in order to have a corresponding effect and also to make a good, transparent and sustainable economic policy. We have different standards, where we are deeply convinced that they still need to be implemented here. I hope that in the western mood in Styria, it has not been forgotten that there are other criteria, which are, of course, the full transparency and, of course, the sustainability and the environmental impact, the protection of workers and the social standards. The whole should also serve as an instrument for promoting innovation, depending on how the criteria are designed. It must also be clear that this best bidder principle for all providers is transparent, comprehensible and understandable and, of course, completely glass in implementation. All of these are points that need to be discussed now and which need to be addressed accordingly. I think we have a big step ahead of us. We are excited about further debates and negotiations on this subject.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e21272	Next speaker: Dr. Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e21294	Mr President. Federal Minister! I believe that one point that is also very important in this context is the fact that, of course, we also need to look at European regulations. This is a little difficult in this proposal if only regional value added is specifically addressed, because at European level we have to see that this is also implemented without discrimination. But of course there is also a clear commitment from our group to the best bidder principle. As we have heard, the right to award is one of the most complex materials available in the Austrian legal order. I've been dealing with this for a long time, and I have to say that I think the cheapest bidder principle is simply wrong. We need a new regulation here. It is precisely the broad transparency as regards subcontractors – Mr Muchitsch, you have referred to it – that is a very essential point, because, I say, a lot of schindluder was actually done, because the legal possibilities were also given. Accordingly, it is true that this is being changed. Perhaps very briefly why the Constitutional Committee is assigned. – Not only because it is now in the Constitutional Committee, but also because the right to award is always in the Constitutional Committee. That is the case, and that is why this should be discussed there and there accordingly. One last point, I think, is to say this again: The best bidder principle is not only about the question of regional value added, but also about many other criteria. The government proposal has now come up with many proposals, and we will discuss them accordingly in the Committee. That is why the allocation is absolutely correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e21331	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of its report 840 of the supplements. If you would like to accept this request, please give a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[Abg. Hagen doesn't rise from his seat.]] [[He-Rufe.]] (assignment of application 487/A(E) to the Constitutional Committee S. 267.) [[23:10:39]] 25. Point First reading: Request by Dr. Nikolaus Scherak, Members of Parliament, concerning a federal law amending the Federal Law on the Rules of Procedure of the National Council (Regulatory Act 1975) (1207/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e21391	We're coming to the 25th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. First speaker: Mr Scherak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e21419	Mr President. At the late hour something that, I think, is quite, very important and what we are constantly busy with here in the high house: This is the famous, well-known relinquishing practice of the government parties. For the spectators who are still watching, it is, I think, also important to know that hundreds – probably up to thousands of people in the current legislative period – are being postponed from the opposition's requests and disappear into any drawers at the time – and even if they are kept on the agenda, they will again be postponed in a committee. Now you can discuss it without a doubt. Let's say that 95 percent of the opposition's ideas are bad – what I don't think, but let's assume it – but even then we still have 5 percent to discuss intensively. That's not happening. In order to put an end to this unbearable reluctance practice, to this first-class funeral, as it is called, it is necessary to amend the Rules of Procedure. In this context, we suggest that only a two-time delay should be possible – and this should only be possible for six months. I think you can discuss details without further delay, which I don't hold on to. The most important thing is that this delay practice has an end. We have also discussed this in the democratic survey. This is an absolute unstatement in this House, and that must have an end! I think it's finally time for something to happen.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e21451	Item to the vote on the agenda item 24: I accept amendment 487/A(E) to the Constitutional Committee. Next word: Mr Pendl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e21489	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I should also like to say, Mr President, that I can understand this request and get it out of the way. However, I can say that in the joint committee we have drawn up a list of several open points, from the change between the political groups to the expansion of parliamentary control. So there are several points which are important, no question at all. But I think it has been a long tradition with us that, before we deal with the issues in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, we have always had them in a joint committee. And we even have an appointment for the next GO committee. I am therefore in this debate both in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and then in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. the following in a Committee of the Rules of Procedure is truly worthless of value. However, we should stick to our own rules of play, as I mean, and I am already looking forward to an interesting discussion in the GO Committee and in the Rules of Procedure Committee.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e21522	Next speaker: Member of the Council of Ministers of the European Communities. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e21543	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The request is of course interesting, and as on many other issues, we will also discuss it in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. But we should not just look at this from one side. If you say no more than two delays and then you have to vote on them in plenary, I mean, that wouldn't do anything good either. That reminds me a little bit of kids' football: three corners, an elf. We must already have a proper framework here, and we should not focus on the fact that we continue to overload committee meetings with Rules of Procedure. Perhaps we should put the work there much more in the foreground, because the presentation in plenary and the plenary debate are ultimately the conclusion of the opinion. And that is why we need to focus much more on the Committee's work. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Loacker.]] But if we look at the Rules of Procedure – and there is no wrong impression here – then we see that we also have a massive advantage of minority groups, only when we look at the speaking times in plenary. We should also discuss this, because that is also an important point. And I don't think it's necessary to pretend that minorities in this House are not going to exist. – They occur very strongly and are also strongly involved. And it is also a matter of being postponed once or there, because there are also issues that cannot always be answered immediately and where care needs to be taken.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e21582	Next word: Mr Mag. Darmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e21604	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of High house! If you've been listening to my colleague's jewelry beater and pendl, I have to say, two worlds are coming up here. Colleagues, once again, show that even when it comes to parliamentarism and democracy in an applied way in the committees, the ÖVP is ready to continue to block. As for Otto Pendlbe, I must say: I take this very positive view that you also see the intention of this request by Mr Scherak positively recognise it. I just hope that you will not remain alone in your group with this opinion. In itself, ladies and gentlemen, it is a legitimate request from the NEOS to act here. Let us consider what it looks like in practice in the committees, and you are all active – most more, others less – in the committees. In the meantime, it is not just that opposition- In itself, according to a statement, it is not justified simply to be postponed from the point of view, although the government fractions SPÖ and ÖVP have a clear opinion about not supporting them or who want to support them very well, but it is simply delayed once, but the other variant is – and that is quite something new – one cannot even justify the opposition fractions. The speakers of SPÖ and ÖVP are speaking and saying that is adjourned. That is to say, the content is no longer dealt with by the opposition proposals. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] And if I stand out here with a bunch of unfinished negotiating items, then, I must say, these are the current unfinished negotiating items, stand 14. ==References== [[The speaker points to such a]] And, ladies and gentlemen, there are about 470, 480 pending opposition requests, 480 pending opposition applications! This is probably a clear language, ladies and gentlemen, because there are only two variants: Either red and black have used the cowardice to represent their own political opinion here in plenary when it comes to arguing against or for a request from the opposition, or, the second variant is: It is easy for red and black to turn off the opposition. The fact is that the intention of colleagues Scherak and the other colleagues is well justified by this request. We can, of course, discuss the details of implementation, and we will deal with them accordingly in the Committee. The intention is understandable to us. And one thing is clear, ladies and gentlemen: Especially when it comes to working in the sense of the Austrian population, and we as legislators have the first to discuss it in the specialist committees, then in committees, the opposition groups and individual MPs have treated, discussed and voted on the same right as requests from representatives of the SPÖ and the ÖVP. That is how it looks, ladies and gentlemen, because that is democracy, that is parliamentaryism, for which we should act. Dear Mr Pendl, dear Otto, I am really looking for you to act accordingly on the colleagues of your coalition partner, because this has sounded very objectionable here. But it seems that the SPÖ is open to it. And then we will go a little further when it comes to furthering content here and also bringing opposition proposals to the vote and discussion within the meaning of the Austrian population. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e21667	Next speaker: Mr Brosz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e21699	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, the reluctance practice in this House should be viewed critically. I believe that in the last legislative period, we were in favour of 2,000 requests – the 438 are not so much; there is still more – and that has not actually been the intention of the Rules of Procedure. I have already heard a story for a long time, where I was not sure if it was really true, namely that at the beginning of the government groups the speakers will always be elected and then elected deputies, because they can speak most in the committees. This has never been confirmed to me, however. But you could really count it, because you always get there, you can always talk. The creativity is also worthy, because if you have five applications, you do not always have the same argument. It is said that one thing is too complicated, the second is missing, the third is so wrong that you have to delay it right – you might even reject it. There are apparently creative forms of how to deal with this. Today's agenda has shown that there seems to be a way of tricking the government parties a little: One simply makes a request to a committee which is not responsible, and then it returns. Obviously, this has not yet been noticed: Today we have had seven debates, which have always been about not discussing the appropriate requests in plenary, but when we assign them to another committee, there is the debate at once. So maybe we can also increase creativity. It is – if it is not so humorous – sometimes really absurd, with which withdrawals and with what reasons are being made. If the government is looking at how many applications come to the plenary session, how many are postponed, it would also have to realize that the relationship is simply wrong. The relationship is absurd. And if one considers that there are no negative requests, then we could also see it in the Rules of Procedure. I don't know why it hurts so much. By the way, there is a different practice in the committees: In some cases, the applications come back to the plenary session, others do not. We then have collective debates anyway, there are eight points at once. Then one has to negotiate that one is already voting on it – but only if it is negotiated together with three other applications, so that there is no single debate on it at all. So a little more parliamentarianism would have been announced. Mr Pendl has suggested that we can speak seriously about it. I'd be glad. Now there are also counter-arguments that I take seriously. For example, sometimes the argument has come, hardly has the request been rejected, the same request comes back, and we start from the beginning again. This is an argument that can be put into the debate and looked at there. This is most often the case because the application is sent somewhere and one tries to bring it back in. But I understand the argument that it is not great if the same request is discussed in each plenary session when voting on it. Okay, let's talk about it. I hope we find a solution. And if we do not find a solution, what do we do with this proposal? - We abdicate him!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e21744	Can't be postponed, but I'll assign him. No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. I accept motion 1207/A to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. The agenda is exhausted. [[23:23:04]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-14-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00096_d7e21783	At today's meeting, the self-employed received requests from 1365/A to 1382/A(E). The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations will be convened at 23.23 a.m., which is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
