ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00094_d8e1931	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I'll open the 94. Meeting of the National Council, which is based on a sufficiently supported request in accordance with § 46 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure. The unreaded parts of the Official Protocol of 91. Parliament resolution on the proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. The meeting was held in Brussels on 23 February. ==References====External links== Meeting of 24. In September 2015, the European Parliament's Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. Deputies Singer, Mag. Haider, Riemer and Mag. Aslan. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00094_d8e1962	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government who are present in another Member State of the European Union has made the following communication: The Federal Minister for Finance Dr. Hans Jörg Schelling is the Federal Minister for Families and Youth MMag. Dr. Sophie Karmasin. [[09:02:29]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00094_d8e1995	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[09:02:37]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00094_d8e2169	According to § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure request urgent consideration of the written question 6657/J tabled at the beginning of the meeting by Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues to the Federal Minister for Education and Women on ‘Education reform 2015 – big throw or the next flop?’. The call for urgent inquiry will take place at 12 noon. I announce that this meeting will be broadcast live by ORF 2 from 12 a.m. to 1 p.m. and by ORF III in full length. I am now interrupting the meeting until 12 noon.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00094_d8e2212	I'll start the interrupted session again. [[12:00:51]] Request for urgent procedure Dr. Eva Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues to the Federal Minister for Education and Women on Education Reform 2015 – big throw or next flop? (6657/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00094_d8e2248	We come to the urgent debate on the written question 6657/J. As it has now reached all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the writer. The urgent question has the following wording:
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00094_d8e2564	I give the floor to Mrs Klub President Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek as the questioner on the grounds of the question – after a speech on the Rules of Procedure of Mr Dr. Rosenkranz. [[Call the FPÖ:To the Rules of Procedure!]] - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00094_d8e2596	Madam President. With astonishment, but also interest, we have noticed that today's session will be transferred directly from 12 to 1 p.m. to ORF 2, and then in full length to ORF III. There was also an interesting topic two weeks ago, including a special meeting. This was brought in by 38 delegates, about them being reported entirely on ORF III, but not on ORF 2. Now more than 24 Members have made a request. Now it looks like, because of the list of speakers, that – despite the displeasure of the SPÖ... [[Abg. Arbitrators: Is this to the Rules of Procedure, or what?- Oh, my God!]] – I can already imagine that the SPÖ has discontent in the face of any presentation or reporting, but why it is... [[Abg. Arbitrator: Because you speak to the Rules of Procedure and not...!]] Mr Schieder, please let me speak out. Why are you so nervous? I don't understand. You need to learn to listen once, even if it makes nervousness difficult. Madam President, did you notice that? Have you already discussed with the ORF why this different behaviour looks so that the debate today at the end of this one hour becomes a red-green issue of interest?
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00094_d8e2644	Mr. Dr. Rosenkranz, we will continue to discuss this debate, which is at the border of a debate on the Rules of Procedure, or the question you asked, on Friday at the Presidential Conference. As announced, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I now give the floor to Mrs Glawischnig-Piesczek for the reasons of the request. I would draw your attention to the fact that 20 minutes of speaking time must not be exceeded. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00094_d8e2670	Madam President. I can reassure Mr Rosenkranz in one point: There will not be an interest here for any party, but there should be here essentially an important issue for the future of our children, namely the future of education of the children in Austria. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Look at this!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mrs. Heinisch-Hosek! This is why we have called you into Parliament today because we are in great concern because we are now very impatient and because the criticism of the process is growing as far as education reform in Austria is concerned. There are now some very critical moments to: On the one hand, on Wednesday next week, immediately after the Vienna elections, Mr Finanzminister will give the budget speech. This is the timetable for the budget on the table. This will be decided by the end of November. You, Mrs. Minister, want to join your reform group on 17 November. In November, we presented a reform paper, whereby, according to our understanding, the first results – we do not know what will come out – should, of course, already be included in the budget. We are also concerned that after the country election something may happen, which often happens after elections, like now after the Upper Austria election: The labour market package, which has been worked on for a long time, was cancelled in the second place. We are concerned that the educational reform, the education policy is again in the state of absolute paralysis, and that children and young people are once again lost very important months and years. And we don't want that! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We have heard so many promises over the past few years, not to say decades, as regards this question of future prospects for our youth, that it is almost unpleasant that this is constantly repeated. In 1997, Wolfgang Schüssel, together with Elisabeth Gehrer, already spoke about “best education” for our children. This has continued over the last two decades. Her predecessor Claudia Schmied also spoke of the “best education” directly and immediately for the children, “the best education for every child, no more precariat”, “the best kindergartens, the best schools” – so we hear these superlatives for years now, year out. On the other hand, the situation is very difficult for many children and young people. Every missing month, every year missed means thousands of children and young people cut off their prospects for the future. I just remember that every year we lose 10 percent of each year, 8 000 children in this sense, that they have de facto spent their schooling, but still have not come to know from this school system how to read meaningfully how to calculate how to write. This is another failure every year, due to political hack, self-intained, tactical games – and this on the back exactly of these children and young people. That's why it's allowed for 17. There is no excuse on November, and there really needs to be a big throw and no little reförm. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] However, the signs are not necessarily positive. Mrs Minister, you know that with the Green Group, with us, you certainly have a party in this House that has a dramatic interest in improving the situation. We would like to support you and also the ÖVP to work out a good reform. But you have to do something to do that, and you also have to present something. [[New condolences with the greens.]] At the moment, there is a working group, which was set up last year, a Education Reform Commission. It has been said that it will take up its work quickly and will continue to be in a consultative position. It took four months for this group to do the first time. So far I know of three official meetings, the last took place at the end of July. What is now being sent through is, I believe, no occasion for joy. It is sent down to the central point of the school administration that no harmonisation and no combination of competences should be done or succeeded, although that is exactly the point where we could transform essential resources, essential resources – from the buildings, from administration to the children. We expect a statement or an answer today, should it be different. We wish it was different. It is also regrettable that this reform does not involve, according to the example of other countries, those who are actually the most concerned, namely the pupils, the young people, in no form. It's SPÖ and ÖVP representatives, it's the federal government, it's the countries, it's the classic division that very often provides a standstill and little for movement. The young people concerned are not integrated. I'd have laid my heart on you: In Finland, 60,000 pupils have been involved in a large school reform project. They have actively joined, have actively redesigned their school, and all at such a breathtaking pace that almost nobody can imagine in Austria. That is why it is a shame that the people concerned about whom it is supposed to be concerned are so little in mind and that something is to be ordered from above, where we are concerned that it cannot grow and is not enough. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] My personal impatience, my criticism is therefore also very legitimate, because we all, as parents or also in the circle of acquaintances and relatives, are constantly experiencing the fate of young people and children both in kindergarten and in school, which are simply on the way in this education system, because in this political hack between the federal government and countries, between national leaders and ministries, between red and black, it is not possible to give them a chance. Last week the family committee once again buried the kindergarten area, I have to say in all the dramas – especially when it comes to the weakest and the smallest. For years, we have discussed what elementary education means, how important it is to give the smallest the best education. All confirm this, of course: The educators deserve a better education, earn a better pay, earn better places. Parents also deserve it when they plan a family when they spend the nine months of pregnancy together, that they have safety when they need a kindergarten place, that they also get a place of sufficient quality. Now the second free kindergarten year de facto has been buried again. I wonder what all these confessions are worth, that the smallest are our most important. The future of the youngest should be a concern to all of us. Maybe you have an explanation for that. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I know it's all very complicated with the countries and with the funding, but bad I found it that ideological reasons have been suggested that children should be taken away from their parents' poor if a second free kindergarten year is introduced. This basically means 95 percent of all parents to have a fixed place – for free. That's nothing to do with ideology, but that's really quality worth living, that's also support as far as the wallet is concerned. It makes a huge difference whether you can visit a free kindergarten or whether you have to afford private kindergartens in some form. – They shake the head,I don’t know why, but 95 percent of parents would have needed this very much: a relief in terms of kindergarten costs. [[in the direction of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Every year, every month that is delayed due to political hack, due to a hack between red and black, means for thousands of young people, having no key to the labour market, no key to sharing in social participation. I speak of those 8,000 young people who are de facto born without graduation. I don't want these young people honing in front of the office with empty eyes on the street. We don't want that anymore. And we want it to be done much faster to allow school degrees to be organized differently, as well as the folk school system and the transition to secondary school, so that we do not simply lose these children on nine years of schooling, which is the case at the moment. [[New condolences with the greens.]] [[Unrest at the ÖVP.]] I found some unrest at the ÖVP. I do not know if the issue is making you restless, but perhaps you can put it off a little bit and discuss this important question of the future with great seriousness. [[Abg. Kogler: Be careful that you learn something!]] Education is the key to a good living together in society. You know that. We have to do this for these young people. There are now 80 000 young people from 15 to 24, who do not have a professional or social perspective in Austria. For this, we need schools that are a place where the children can have their success experiences and can also be given learning success experiences. They all know the progress of small and small children. They all want to learn to run, they want to learn to ride all the bikes, they all want to learn to write – the pride when a child can write “Mama” for the first time after three weeks, how proud the children are! Then, in the third, fourth class, the system shrinks at once toward deficit orientation. That's got a reason. This is precisely the reason for the half-yearly testimonie in the fourth-class folk school to separate the children de facto with the shaving blade and toss them into two pots: the one capable of the gymnasium, and the other who are not. Already in this phase, in the third, fourth class of folk school, it begins that one deals with weaknesses that one no longer places the strengths at the centre, but the weaknesses. There are so many sad stories of so gifted children in the folk school who can write wonderful essays that can write wonderful stories, but keep in the calculation a little behind. Then the door to gymnasium just stays closed. Also the other way round: Children, extremely talented, who can multiply multiple-digitally, can multiply in the head, who may still have a linguistic deficit, perhaps because they are not born in Austria, perhaps also for another reason, the door to the gymnasium remains blocked. And that's something we have to think about: Do we want to push nine, ten and eleven years of this invisible sign at school on the forehead: “second choice” – you were not good enough for the gymnasium? Do we really want that? I think it's really time to think about it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Steinbichler: That's an insanity...!]] – It is. It's actually like that. If you have a child who has a threesome in elementary school, then it can't go to the gymnasium of his choice. They know how different the children are at this age and how much it depends on whether a child was born in January or July. At the age of six to ten, the differences in development are extreme. Why not give every child the same chance? Why not promote each child individually in such a way that it gets the best chance? If you are against it – I cannot understand it! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is a situation, there are fears, there is pressure, there is re-help – re-help in the folk school, you have to imagine! Now, with Vorarlberg, we have a whole federal state in which parents, teachers, schools, politics, above all, have decided to make the model region “Joint School” where one does not make exactly this separation and where one does not promote children individually with much commitment, not only personal commitment, but also more funding. It is now up to the federal government, it is now ÖVP and SPÖ to allow Vorarlberg to do the same. I would also like to ask you, Mrs Minister: Will you work to ensure that a federal state is allowed to try this out once, or will the red and black majority continue to block this decision of the federal state of Vorarlberg? We would also like an answer today. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We know it's a lot of factors. But we also know that it is often up to the parents. Many parents have the will to education, have personally enjoyed a good education, have a higher education degree. Just such parents place a great deal of emphasis on the access to education of their children, try to have perhaps the financial resources and also have the opportunity to do so with the child to support it. But there are also many children who do not have such parents – for whatever reason – who have neither the financial resources nor perhaps the personal resources to allow their children real access to higher education, to support them and to do something with them. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: They then stay in the lower floors!]] And these kids stay on the track with us in de facto. We can't tolerate that any longer. The fact that, the higher the parents are, the probability that the child also has a higher education is simply unbearable, for each child should have the same chances. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is why we need a school that eliminates precisely this cardinal error of our education system, that education poverty is essentially inherited and that educational opportunities are passed on by those who already have high educational qualifications. That's exactly what we want and have to break up with. We need support for teachers in folk school. Many who follow the very approach, namely to really take each child with them, to look at each child how it can be individually promoted, feel abandoned. In principle, there are two teachers in each class – a teacher, a second teacher, who can really take the children individually. Where it works... - You're shaking your head again. [[in the direction of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein]] Imagine, you are a teacher or a teacher and have 20 children with very different talents and should all promote them differently. I believe that these teachers can expect more support than a headshake from a member of the FPÖ. I really have to tell you that. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We have made a number of proposals, we make these proposals again and again. I really represent this with Vehemenz. Think about what this separation of children at this age means, what it means for their families, what it means for a pressure, what blockages are built up, what fears are built up, and, above all, what it means for those who are not allowed to go to the best school. I am also a very vehement advocate of school autonomy. We've been discussing this for a long time. I don't know what you always want to do with your funny hand movements. [[in the direction of the Abg. Deimek]] I'm just asking you to take this constructively once. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] With your education policy proposals where you have more – what have you required? – Disciplining opportunities for teachers wanted: The only thing that came to mind is your colleague in Carinthia, Uwe Scheuch’s “g’sundes waxes”. But I don't think that's a constructive contribution to an educational discussion. No, really! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Autonomy is certainly one of the key issues in this reform commission. We support this. On the spot, you certainly know best what is needed for: Teaching methods, teaching materials, priorities, performance assessment, day layout, even more participation of the children, the youth, even team teaching is of course something that should be enabled to strengthen strengths, promotion hours, free goods, voluntary exercises, much more done in school, do not delegate performance requirements to parents who are also partially overwhelmed, and of course also promote health, from healthy jause to healthy lunch, and, of course, also the daily exercise units that can be very easily integrated into every lesson hour when the rooms fit easily. There would be a lot more possible, I think, all signed. The last point I believe is inevitable and without which this reform cannot be achieved is: Party book and propore out of schools! It is completely incomprehensible why the occupation of the national school directors is still taking place according to the party propaganda and why there is a discussion. This should be done much more transparently, in a school partnership, and I do not think there is a reasonable argument – neither by red nor by black – to maintain this party book economy, this proporz. This would certainly be one of our starting points for a school reform. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Stroll.]] Minister for Education, I said it at the outset: We're worried! We have been experiencing this for a long time – I too personally, but those who are dealing with the issue of education reform have been experiencing it for over two or three decades now – and the key message we want to share with you today is: Every lost month, every lost year simply costs thousands of children their future in education. For this reason, such bureaucratic excuses as those who now have what competence and who offends which head of state because he takes away any administrative activities, especially in the teacher's administration, may simply be no longer an argument that essential reform projects are not implemented. Austria is really lagging behind. Education is the key, not only for social cohesion, but also for the personal development of every person, for the personal strength, for self-confidence, of course for the labour market, and it must not be that so many children – under quotation marks – will be “judged” that they are de facto far away from school simply put on the street. This, I think, is also unique in that we de facto have the obligation to complete our schooling, not through a guarantee that every child can write, read and calculate, or that at least if it has not worked, the state assumes the responsibility to enable these children to complete education afterwards. That's really one of the key questions, and we don't want to see how more months and years are wasted in the party dispute and in the hack between the federal government and countries – this on the back exactly these children!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00094_d8e2869	Mrs Heinisch-Hosek spoke in response to the question. Mrs Bundesminister, your speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00094_d8e2892	Madam President. High National Council! I am really pleased – and I am quite honest with that – that a special meeting has been convened to discuss a very essential topic for the future, that we are not only talking about what has already happened in the Austrian education system, but also about what needs to be done; I am very grateful for that. There are 50 questions to answer. I will try to work these out as well after a brief introduction. But let me start by just telling you what the real situation is in our schools! In the last three weeks – i.e. in the first three weeks of schooling – I have visited 16 educational institutions in six federal states – public schools, kindergartens, popular universities, educational schools – and I have learned in different ways how committed the people are to working there, whether it was now adult educators with refugee youths or – only yesterday – kindergarten teachers and teachers at Campus Sonnwendviertelt, who accompany kindergarten children and folk school children together in the new year – speak in the new kindergarten year or in the new school year – whether it was the European school in Linz, where I have experienced how at 7 o'clock the doors are opened, the children are breakfasted together, where therapeutic animals were present in the school, the children in the hall and in the class – according to the morning cycle, of course – in groups or 8 alone with teachers, whether it was working with support staff, whether it was in Niederösterreich, where we the youth red Cross action is still possible for our firsttime , and what it was created in the threeyears , and what it was called a welcome campaign for ourchildren , the threeyears , thechildren , the threeyears ,i. So I could now list all 16 examples and would have brought you only a small section of what our system can do now. I'm sorry – I'm sorry if I say that! – to hear again and again how terrible it is and how terrible it is. Yes, the system is worthy of improvement, yes, on this issue we have not only met today, on this issue we are also in contact with the coalition partner with the federal states in order to achieve the 17th. To prepare for what has not yet happened in this country in November. Yes, I, of course, am in favour of the fact that educational disadvantages that parents may bring along may not be passed on to the children, that the system should include these children as early as possible, even before school – yes, that is no secret. A second kindergarten year is not mandatory for all, but there are at least mandatory talks with parents. Yes, I would have liked it, but now we take the first step and at least see how to accompany children from the kindergarten into the public school in such a way that they are not divided into preschool children, regular school children or even special school children at the age of six. – That should belong to the past. This is not only what we have written in the government programme, but we have already done so in 73 kindergartens and 110 public schools. We're just testing this system and seeing how these transitions can be done gently. We have just passed on an instrument, the so-called read-PHILIPP, to more than 7 000 children in these network projects, with the aim of training reading in kindergarten through reading, playful learning, so that the children will have it easier in the public school. We are working precisely on these issues in these areas. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a system of education, which I quite agree with, in which 2 100 communities almost act as school-keepers, in which nine federal states interpret their implementing laws, in which the Federal Government not only has to do with education through the Ministry of Education, but through almost all the resorts in any way – whether it be the BMF with the financial compensation and educational expenditure directly, whether it is the centres responsible for young people, for example, when they are looking for work, if they are out of compulsory school time, unless it is the place responsible for kindergarten time, because it is again parked elsewhere – and all this we now want to bring not only under the proverbial great hat but also into a form, through which school administration, education administration, perhaps more cost-effective and also more transparent for children and the parents becomes and less stressful. What I want and what many of you probably want is that children simply grow up in a system where they spend the day in a meaningful sequence. We all have a biorhythm, including the children, and this can not be explained alone in such a way that you consume from eight to one lessons and then perhaps do a little exercise and spend time in the afternoon care. – No, the school of the future, my vision of tomorrow’s school includes, of course, a meaningful sequence of teaching and leisure in restricted form, and of course, it is a matter of being open that the school building opens in the early morning, has a certain period of time, that perhaps someone is there during the vacation, so that those who want or want to be disadvantaged and need it do not have to provide sinteurs, which they often cannot, but find their place in the system. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It doesn't matter – I already said it – in which family a child is born. It is the fact that the chances of children are different, and even if they always say that the family may be like this and that: The family is very valuable, very important, but everything cannot be done by family, we know. And that is why the education system can cover these areas. For this school of the future we work in the Federal Government, we work with the federal states. Even if you think otherwise: If between two dates officially expires two or three months, then between – believe me! – At the level of our cabinets, the federal states, officials and officials, for example, every week worked meticulously to ensure that we were on 17th. November are so fit that we can provide you with an educational reform from early education to adult education. I also believe that these are the important questions we have to deal with, namely: Who works with the children in the system? – These are highly motivated teachers. With the new training, we will take further steps on things that may now be even more or less neglected. It should be those who can really recognize: Am I suitable for the profession, can I stay in this profession? And if they are not suitable, they should be able to get out again. At the moment, the system is a bit difficult, getting started, getting out is not that easy. But we also have to ask ourselves what we do with educators who do not feel comfortable in the system. What possibilities do we have for them? Can a school director, a school director also say: It doesn't fit with you; what can we do to find a solution that is good for both of us? Can a school director, a school director say: I think you're missing exactly this education, and I'm going to make you do it, because it's good for the kids!Unknown term type: "%s".? We are discussing all of this in this Education Reform Commission, and not just that, but much more, which I can then address when answering the questions. What is being taught? – Pedagogical Education New – referred to by the rectors themselves as a century reform – is now beginning, and I believe that this is a good education. We will accompany them and see over the years how we can adapt the curriculum – I do not like the word “unwind” – to the time when our children are in school. It is almost 300 curriculums, which are constantly being looked at and adapted, and it is curriculums that provide us all with a framework in which we can move, where we do not have to stick to what is contained in a book from pages 1 to 147, but also have courage to fall short and explain the curriculum. Of course, in the Education Reform Commission, we are also discussing parts of the curriculum, about how to design ourselves, to be able to group sizes in the future, perhaps to devote a whole semester to a topic and to make other topics in the next semester. A team has to work well, and that is why it is absolutely important that those who manage and run a school are also well suited. Of course, we also think of school principals not ordering them immediately and for a lifetime, but they can apply again, and after five years, as in the general public service in management positions, we see whether this is good for people and whether they are well suited. And then it's still important: How to act in school? How to act in allies when schools are too small to have a right to exist alone. I'm not talking about locking up, I'm not explicit, but I'm talking about how to make meaningful alliances. I am a friend of model regions – not that you believe I do not support it! – but Vorarlberg is supposed to present a model. The Vorarlbergers have said they need a little more time and will be so ready in autumn. – Autumn would be already; I’m waiting for it, and then we’ll advise. This is also a step-by-step approach to the testing of a common school in individual federal states and regions, and then to the fact that parents say: Actually, I don't care if my children are going to this or that school at the age of ten, most importantly, they stay together and feel comfortable! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to say quite openly and honestly: We are more than aware of the need for action. We know what we have already achieved, and we know just as well what we still need to achieve – together, together – and we will be on 17th. November the system so that it is easier that it is perhaps cheaper for the children to do something, to give parents a little less stress and to give teachers in the system a sense of well-being that we see, the Austrian education system has developed further, and that we see, it has made a good way. I now come to answer the 50 questions and I would like to draw questions 1 and 2. Questions 1 and 2: This is about elementary education, a very important issue, and it is about what we have already agreed in the reform group. Please understand; I can tell you technically, we take care of pedagogy and quality, we take care of financing and controlling, and a group takes care of legal and administrative reform. According to the logic proposed by the Court of Auditors, the IHS and others, namely to give funding, administration and organisation into one hand, elementary pedagogy was also examined. It is very important to me that we take further steps in the education of the elementary pedagogues themselves, and that we also apply uniform criteria in Austria, so that the children from Vorarlberg to the Neusiedler See have the same possibilities. We'll do that on 17 November. November included and presented. Questions 3 and 4: This is about bringing together all the agendas in a ministry, across all areas. We are discussing the grouping of tasks; we have not yet abolished any sites in our group to assign them only to one place, and of course we are taking the elementary pedagogical agents of the federal states into the debate. Some of us will be until the 17th century. November and then, I think, can also present something good. Question 5: Member of the reform group Mayor Häupl calls the common school a goal. That is also my goal, which is the objective of social democracy. A fully day-to-day shared school with limited education remains our goal – and the first step could be the model regions. [[Abg. Bösch: Everything's getting better!]] – A Vorarlberger speaks – perhaps you could do some advertising in Vorarlberg so that the model region will soon become reality there. I'm sure we're not against this. Questions 6, 7 and 22 I would like to sum up: It's about autonomy, model regions, common school. From schedule: As part of the educational dialogue with Mrs. Landesratin Mennal in Vorarlberg, the rector of the PH Kuille, colleague Böheim-Galehr and numerous school leaders, I discussed the concept of Vorarlberg. We held work talks with the national school council presidents in June. We will soon take up the topic with the educational councillors and are constantly in exchange at the level of officials and staff of the school supervisors. I believe that if a model exists, we should evaluate it as soon as possible, inculcate this famous section 7a of the School Organisation Act and see that in Austria an extension to model regions will be possible. Question 8: Tasks, expenditure, financing responsibility: Of course, the Court of Auditors' recommendations are being discussed very, very intensively; I can only now – and this is not the Court of Auditors alone – pre-negotiation results. Questions 9 and 10 I would like to sum up: This is what has been discussed in the subgroup on finance. Of course, this is very complex, I have already mentioned it: the school holdership of the municipalities, the nine federal states with their implementing laws and partly their own service law, the federal government itself, the other resorts that are involved, the municipal government, the local government, the interests, of course also the social partners who have been presenting educational papers for years, numerous experts, organizations, the industrial association, and, and so on. So there are a lot of models that describe progress, and we're going to consider exactly these models that come from everywhere. The following questions have been raised by the Financial Group: Which calculation models are subject to pedagogical staff? How can one develop a standard cost and index-based resource management model, almost a resource allocation depending on what is needed at the location, in the region, not with the casting can, as it happens in part now? How can one really intervene? What does a school need for basic equipment, and what else can a school need? What can include school autonomy? What can I decide for myself at the school location? How can elementary education take place? – These were the topics of the financial group. Questions 11, 15 and 16 I would like to sum up: This is again about calculations and funding flows, about school administration. The government structure subgroup has been involved in the school administration, and I know that the Court of Auditors, whose expertise we constantly use, certainly does not make any recommendations that lead to additional costs. But I can already tell you that according to our previous calculations, a change would lead to additional costs – at quite high additional costs. Questions 12 and 13 I would also like to sum up: This is about the administration of the staff and the question of what the financial consequences are if you place the staff somewhere or just share them as before. There's not only the service that's charged and paid out, that's got to be a discussion, I'd mean. In this context, it is equally about who is educational staff, who is support staff, who is not teaching staff – this is to be distinguished, because the different students also have different employment conditions. Leisure teachers in the congregations are partly employed by the community or by associations, in the federal schools they are occupied by us. So all these things have to be distinguished if you want to merge things, and once you understand the complexity so that you can merge them and evaluate the different interests at all. Question 14: Yes, of course, it is about social index-based resource models that we are discussing, and we have already expected models. We must evaluate these in the Education Reform Commission and decide how we want to proceed. Questions 17 to 20 I would like to summarise: I would like to say that all four questions cannot yet be answered in detail and I cannot pass on the results to you, because these are difficult finding processes, decision-making processes. As soon as we reach the next meeting of the Education Reform Commission on this administrative structure on the one hand, the autonomous working groups on the other, of course, we will immediately be looking for contact with the High House, because we know – so naïve is no one – that we have two-thirds. If we want to change, we need you as support, as partners. On question 21: Yes, of course, we want to strengthen the school locations more. How do we want to strengthen them? – By more autonomy! What does that mean? – You should be able to design, make responsible. The question of locking up and locking up, whether the bell is ringing or not, is not the main topic, but other questions: How can you better combine compartments or combine them differently? How can you set content priorities, exceed something, create your own things without even breaking the law? We want to make this possible with the extensive expansion of the autonomy of schools. For example, if in question 22 regional model attempts are addressed to autonomy in the administration, if it is meant that school associations can also go completely new ways together autonomously, then I say that it can also be decided by a school association that in the administration new ways are run autonomously, that a line runs, serves, and continues to pedagogical lines; one can also be creative by being allocated to the individual branches, if I may say so, leading, leading, and above all accompanying the schools. I have already mentioned the opening hours and school lessons. These should be fully free and flexible. Of course, we want to eliminate the 5 300 school attempts as well as we can. There are only 2,000 school attempts because one cannot choose between note and “non-note” – verbal assessment – in folk school and always has to register a school attempt. So this is the first step. There are also many high-level school experiments – using modules not to have to do everything in a row according to the timetable – which are 80 more school tests. We are going to gradually get rid of these, and of course we want to eliminate as many school trials as possible. One should only be able to test new things in the attempt, and if one has tried something – that is the meaning of school tests – it should go into the general school system. On the question 26: Of course, a well-functioning autonomous school needs quality assurance. I attach great importance to the fact that this is a very important part of our debate: There should no longer be school supervision in the future. It may be the same persons in part, but a quality assurance authority looks into the schools, accompanies the schools, controls in the positive also whether the path is the right one, and creates templates in case of need for change. A school is to be accompanied in the future in such a way that you can also see if you are on the right path, whether the standards fit, whether you're down – over it is always good – whether you're moving in the middle field, how you can get out of the middle field to get even better. This new quality assurance authority is part of the overall debate. On the question 27: If with the coalition partner, if the next step has been taken with the countries, then: Inclusion of all – I have said this in another question before – then: intense negotiations, negotiations also with the House, with the trade unions of teachers; that is quite natural. But I still ask for a little patience so that we can bring together the complex system so that we can also present it to you. On the question 28: It is only important who is in school, what is taught, how it is taught – and the administrative reform must come. So I don't think we should stick to the question of who signs the salary note. This may be important for teachers, but it is not important for administrative reform. Questions to the budget: On question 29: The educational budget – and this is not always said – is constantly being increased. The Minister of Finance will probably mention this in his budget speech, but you can then also read it in the budget accompanying laws: It is constantly being increased, only: a structural deficit has been accompanied, so to speak, for many years – I would like to say almost: Tens of years – the education budget. This deficit will be eliminated as always, I am sure. This delta is known, I don't need to mention it extra, it has already been counted by you in many interviews in many areas correctly at the right level. Question 30: Yeah, it's always the goal of not saving in class, that's quite clear. The aim is to eliminate the funding gap – the structural deficit – and otherwise, I think, we have done our homework. We have, as well as it is, presented to the Minister of Finance, as we can cover the year 2016 with the specifications and the requirements we have received from the Ministry of Finance. I believe that the plan is a good one and that it will be adopted in the same way. On question 31: We have always had these rules relating to establishment plans over and over again. This is regulated in financial compensation, and some of them are now being examined there, because it is necessary to regulate it in a control regulation, so that we can really demand the transfer back. This is the case of the Ministry of Finance, but there we are in good conversation that this can happen soon that this will be taken part in the financial compensation process. On question 32: I assume that the payment of teachers' salaries is not at risk – logically. Questions 33 and 34: It is € 109 million for infrastructure measures that will be spent on school forms all day this year, the rest of them at €160 million will be personnel costs. We assume that they will also be claimed and picked up by the end of the year – there will be a large payout tranche in November. On question 35: Clear answer: No, no, no, On question 36: This is all to be done in the financial balance. On questions 37 and 38: Again: Four projects of mine are on the table. We have a new logic. It will be decided in the Federal Government how integration of children in the school sector – apart from language promotion – can also be set out in a budgetary way in the future. The four projects are four good projects; two are for compulsory school, two are for unaccompanied minor refugees, i.e. children, young people who come into the system after compulsory school. In order to communicate the language and other things, I have, as I said, submitted four projects. I expect the decision soon. Question 39: To this end, I would like to say: Yes, an extension is necessary, and I am convinced that it will be done positively. This is about the promotion of language, and every two years I have to look at the Minister for Finance. I assume that just in times like this, the extension should not be a problem. On question 40: Additional staff must also be included in each overrun, if more pupils are included in the system, so to speak. As in the past it will also be called: more students – more teachers. On questions 41 to 43: Again: We have tried with these four projects – intercultural teams in schools, more language promotion in compulsory schooling on the one hand, on the other hand, to meet the need for language support in vocational secondary schools through language courses, but also basic education and compulsory schooling in adult education, which are the other two projects – to find out so that we can cope with the entrances of children and young people who come into our system. On question 44: The funds are secured by 2017; in the field of basic education we could even double. We have €75 million in the adult education system, which benefits not only young people from 15, but also adults who are unable to read, write and calculate well and can thus complete. It could be more and more, but I assume it will be extended. This is to be renegotiated. On question 45: Yes, of course. There are already training courses at educational universities, courses for early-language funding, promotions for kindergarten teachers, teachers in the public school, teachers at the BAKIPs. Content are models of early language promotion, first language, second language, and questions such as how individual teaching can be and how funding can look. On question 46: It is possible to use through special contracts people with completed training in German as a foreign language, German as second language even without teaching in our educational institutions. The approval requirement is subject to the Federal Chancellor's Office, and we must, of course, take into account the foreigners', foreigners' employment law – but that is a prerequisite. On question 47: This variant – tenth level where? – is currently being examined by my legal experts, and if the examination is positive, there is a need for a discussion on the allocation of resources. So if this means more planning places in this area, they must also be approved. If this is not the case – for example, in our trade schools, where we have fewer students – you can also use good language support for over 15-year-olds. I would very much plead for this path. Question 48: We have ongoing meetings, meetings on how to develop this training guarantee. This is not only the case of the BMBF, my resort, and in the meantime there are even measures. Just to remember: There is a practical trade school, there is a school social work in a number of locations, the youth and apprentice coaching is there, the apprenticeships in the second educational course are available, and the over-company trainings, teaching trainings are already available. That means that to refine as few young people as possible in the system is, of course, our goal. Question 49: Of course, there is no difference between extraordinary students and the other students when measuring resources. The calculation of resources refers to the child, and only for this they are disbursed. Question 50: We have an emergency, special, bridge solution in the initial Traiskirchen camp in the form of the so-called bridge classes. I believe – and this is what we are all here in the Federal Government, including you, I think – that first reception centres, that mass quarters are not suitable to establish their own schools there, but it is necessary, of course, to use every second in the hopefully short time that children spend with their families there to teach children our language and bring them closer to how we live. This can only be a transitional solution and works very well in Traiskirchen. But I only see it as a transitional solution for children and young people. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00094_d8e3076	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister. We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes, with each club having a total speaking time of 25 minutes. Mr. Dr. Walser, you are now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00094_d8e3106	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! Mrs Minister, thank you for your answers, even if they were not always satisfactory and did not always have the precision we wanted. You've asked for patience. I do not think we are the only ones who have no patience in Austria, what is happening to school reforms. Most parents do not have patience, students no longer have patience, and teachers are tired of constantly pointing out that we need a basic school reform in Austria. You have the lot day 17. We are all looking forward to it on November. But since you have called for this patience from us and comforted us, I should like to point out a central problem: They carry out a school reform as a secret project. That can't work! [[Congratulations on the Greens and Members of the NEOS.]] It doesn't work anywhere. If you don't take people with you, the enthusiasm will be an end to it. That's perfectly clear. Take a look at examples of where appropriate projects have worked! Finland currently: Although they are clearly in front of us in all categories, they do because they notice that something has to be done, a great reform. And what are they doing? – They talk to teachers. They talk to the parents, and even the students are systematically involved in the reform. And the time horizon given in Finland for a fundamental reform is a few years. – Not like us, we count almost in decades, when it comes to referendums, not talking about reforms at all. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I can largely support the analysis you have presented here. Yes, you have recognized the problems, you have described the problems, you have also said that you are aware of the need for action. We have known this need for action for years, if not decades. And if you introduce projects here as a solution – the reading-PHILIPP – then I have to say that we are all going to be a zapple felt, if not finally something fundamental is done! And this basic story is not in sight. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[call to the FPÖ.]] What we can expect from the National Council is to involve us in such a fundamental reform in time for calling Ross and Reiter to point out what is meant when it comes to administrative reform, which is to say, when it comes to other distributions of competence than it is at present. Mrs Minister, but above all also colleagues of the government parties! What people want, what parents, children and teachers want, is clear: The ORF broadcast “School for Life” has shown this very beautifully. One has tried to bring a new secondary school together with a gymnasium, one has equipped it with appropriate resources, and there have been fragrant results after a few months: more enthusiasm among the children, more joy of learning. The children suddenly went to school much better than that before. The performance has improved significantly in both the lower and the top-level sectors. The ORF showed what we should understand here in the House and what the parents want: Students who go to school and do not need a school bag, parents who are not burdened at home again with the house exercises that should actually make their children. These are demands that, I believe, can be comprehensible – also the demand that you get a healthy lunch at school. We should finally make sure that all this is done and then consider the ways in which we get there. But we are not even at this first step. Minister for the Vorarlberg Model Region: In Vorarlberg the green influence has reached at least so far that we have convinced all the country parties that it must go towards common school. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What we've done in Vorarlberg is that we've involved people there. There was no survey, but there was a full survey. All affected parents, all teachers were consulted: What do you want? Should it go in this direction, should it go in that direction? And this one. We should finally put up courage in Vienna, because the results were please: 78 percent of parents and teachers in Vorarlberg say yes, the common school brings more equal opportunities. – 78 percent! Four out of five are in favour of us going one step further, and 72 percent, i.e. three out of four, say it's a clear advantage when we separate children later. Col. Rosary shakes his head, he's not so convinced of it. – Mr Rosenkranz, the Freeman in Vorarlberg are in the boat! They've been over-represented by us. You have two Vorarlberger colleagues here in the club, ask colleagues Themessl! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mölzer.]] The only criticism of the Vorarlberger FPÖ in this model common school is: They don't go fast enough, they want it faster! That's what we Greens say with leave: Ladies and gentlemen, letting time, taking care to change this system, see that this also really works, providing the necessary resources so that it does not go back to money, looking that school canteens are present, that we in schools can also bring the children in such a way, so that learning success is guaranteed! I have invited all the colleagues of all the parliamentary parties, all representatives of education and training to hold this discussion. I have presented to all the very large copies of Vorarlberg's research results. I asked that we discuss this in the teaching committee. It is not possible so far. So far, one is not ready to discuss this project, because especially the conservative wing in the ÖVP knows of course, then this clearly goes towards modern school. I would expect a little more support from the Vorarlberg Members in both government parties that what their party colleagues say in Vorarlberg will finally be implemented here. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Another point to be made to the colleagues in the Social Democracy, Mrs. Minister: Mr. Mayor Häupl was pleased to say that he wanted the common school. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: He speaks a lot!]] I quote what he gave of himself on the weekend: As a compromise, I hope a common school of the ten to fourteen years old in the style of the Vienna middle school will come, and from me also with the maintenance of the AHS. Ladies and gentlemen! A little pregnant, it won't play. Either we have the AHS sub-level or we have a common school. Both will not go. Maybe you'll clarify Mr. Mayor. Today I hear very positive sounds from the ÖVP. The Tyrolean school councillor speaks plainly to you: “I also call on my own party colleagues to finally try to present results with which to work.” That's what your Tyrolean country school councillor says. She wants the common school, she wants to go in that direction. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Aha!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Bureaucratic reduction would be another issue, such as finance, the issue of the whole day school, the question of justice. But let me conclude by bringing another morning's present to the colleagues of the Conservative Group, let me quote a German CDU politician who has found the right word, I think, for the reform backlog, which is also available in Germany, namely Wolfgang Bosbach. He pointed out that the land resources in Germany are at last. We have a similar situation in Austria. Our potential is the future of our children, our potential is training. Wolfgang Bosbach says very dramatically: “Whoever has nothing in the ground must have something in the pear.” – Let us make sure that this happens to our children!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00094_d8e3217	Reported as follows: Mrs Mag. Grossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00094_d8e3238	Madam President. Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! You can never talk enough about education. [[Call the FPÖ:voice!]] That is why I am very pleased that we have once again had the opportunity to discuss the subject of education in detail at this special meeting today, after a few days ago. Although we may have to owe it to the upcoming Vienna election today, I think it is quite obvious that Vienna is inspired to talk about education. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Go!]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: I don’t believe that!]] [[Abg. Walser: As the Schelm thinks, so he says!]] Finally, Vienna is with the Free Kindergarten, with the good all day school and childcare offer, with the excellent language support, with the free follow-up, with an excellent vocational education including teaching, including vocational school and higher education, and much more is an educational premiere, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Honest?! That is why there are so many unemployed young people!]] And that in comparison with all the world cities. Look around the world! The comparison makes us sure what is done here. So we're just talking about it. We have, of course, also, and this cannot be concealed, quite a need for reform in the Austrian school system, and this is also addressed jointly by the Minister, by the Education Reform Commission. But one thing I would like to put to your heart, ladies and gentlemen: Our education system is much better than its reputation and, above all, it is much better than those who want to hit political capital in the field of education. So if the achievements of the Austrian pupils are generally presented as below average, when the picture is drawn that the Austrian school system, as it were, only results in illiteracy, then this is really damaging for Austrian students, and it is also damaging for the economic location of Austria. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Walser: Every fourth can't read meaningfully!]] [[Abg. Lugar: The numbers do not lie!]] So please be careful with flat-rate judgments, with flat-rate slender step, even if there is, of course, a need for reform – quite clearly, that is also obvious. But you can also look at the achievements our young people provide at professional Olympics, at various international competitions, such as the graduates in professional life in Germany and abroad! This is also an impressive proof of the quality of education and of the quality of the work of those responsible for education, of the achievements of teachers, whom I would like to thank most warmly for their excellent achievements at this point. [[Congratulation of the Abg. El Habbassi]] When it's put in the room that things get worse: So please also look at the number ratio teacher/teacher – student! This has steadily improved. We've lowered the high school grades. There are now much more teachers available for the school service. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] We have experienced the opposite – because just out of the series now intermediate calls – under black and blue. Minister Gehrer has shortened school hours, especially sports hours. [[Further calls of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] Now we're going another way. Now, children spend more time in school, even in the afternoon, and are no longer left to themselves, to the PlayStation or to the TV, but they also find useful leisure opportunities, and I ask you to do so! [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein:...]] There is a need for reform, especially in the whole of the structural sphere. But it must be the child, must be the student, the student must be at the centre, and then the structure must be built after that! I am glad that the Minister is so professional with the Education Reform Commission. First of all, we need to ask: What is the system to do to school? [[New call for tender of the Abg. Peter Worm.]] Who can provide these services as best as possible? And then you put on the structure. Test Please do not hold this debate the other way round! School autonomy is not just a keyword, it is filled with life. The Minister presented it. But one must not be confused with school autonomy, that is, with national captain autonomy. There is also a need for appropriate vigilance that desires are not awakened in the other direction. In any case, the student must be at the heart of the student. In this sense, I ask you to cooperate constructively! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00094_d8e3403	The next item is Mrs Jank's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00094_d8e3424	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! I would particularly like to welcome the German school speaker and the chairman of the student union and, if there are still some, the students of the NMS Jenbach in Tyrol. Welcome here at the Hohen Haus! [[General condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Any constructive contribution to improving quality in our education system is welcome. There are many good proposals on the table and are discussed in the Education Reform Commission. ==References== November is a day set by the Commission itself, on which results will be presented, which will of course have to be assessed and, of course, a discussion to be held, but, as Mrs Minister has said, there should be a proper package on the table, which hopefully will also be implemented in an appropriate way. Of course – because it has been put into space today, it was not about these topics at all – it is about elementary education, school autonomy, of course, it is about simplifying the administrative structures, about clear competences and division of tasks between the federal government and countries. These are the issues in the Commission – what else?- Oh, my God! And, of course, the stakeholders are also involved. The Minister has already said that there have been talks. By the way, for the next week we have received an invitation to a conversation among the educational speakers – thanks many times for that – in which we will also raise our personal ideas from the point of view of the educational speakers. I would like to address a few of the issues that must be rethinked, re-designed and re-designed in our school system. Thema Autonomy: I consider school autonomy to be a really central point in changing our system. It is necessary to enable the management of schools to decide autonomously in the selection of personnel, in the development of personnel, in the building of teams, in the common quality development of a school. We have different structures, but that – even though Austria is usually described as a small country – which needs Vienna, for example, is perhaps not the right thing for Vorarlberg or another country. Therefore, schools must be able to operate in a localised manner. It is also necessary to make the services of schools transparent. I think this is an important contribution. Competition stimulates, I can confirm this to you from the economy, and therefore we must make this transparency. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] In future, each educational institution will be able to decide for itself on the basis of nationally uniform frameworks and educational objectives. At present, school leaders have far too little room for play. In addition, a comparison with the economy: If a manager of a large company had so little scope, he could probably not deliver these achievements that are needed and required. [[Complementary of the Abg. Reciprocating.]] With all the criticism of the system, we will not discourage the many committed and good teachers, we will not pour the child out with the bath, but we will continue to develop the system! School is a service provider, service is provided by people, it comes to people. And therefore a thank you to the teachers who are very committed to this task every day. [[In the case of the ÖVP, the members of the SPÖ and the Agg. Stroll.]] As another important focus of the reform process – the woman minister has done it – the areas of elementary education and the transition from kindergarten to folk school are to be mentioned. Of course, we see the kindergarten as the first educational institution. It is therefore important to ensure that language deficits are recognised early. In Vienna, six out of ten kindergarten children do not have German as their mother tongue. In other words, we often have the situation in Vienna that, when children enter school, they cannot have enough German. It is therefore necessary to intervene early. 94 percent of the four-year-olds are already visiting a kindergarten. So it will probably be possible to include the remaining 6 percent into the system as well. To the folk school: The primary school's task is to ensure that the children at the end of the fourth class are in language, in calculation, in writing, and in reading. What distinguishes us positively from many other countries here is our differentiated school system. We stand for a differentiated system. For us it is quite clear that we will not give up on the best school offer, at school with the best results, namely at the gymnasium. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For us, it is quite clear that we do not remove the best man, as we would say in sports, from the team framework, nor do we stand for the fact that, for example, a company like Manner takes the maner cuts out of the range. That is why we do not abandon the gymnasium either. I think it is irresponsible that in recent years in Vienna New secondary schools have been established and are also planned – 23 are the number, and in principle it is also good that new NMS be created – but in the same period and also for the future there was not a single gymnasium and is, ladies and gentlemen, very much! [[The speaker presents a panel with the title “Planned New Middle Schools – Building and New Construction”, on which the planned locations are recorded, on the floor of the speaker’s desk.]] The Vienna ÖVP, and I support this with all my heart, is committed to the fact that there are six new Gymnasium locations in Vienna, in areas of this city, where there is also a high proportion of migrants. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walser]] [[The speaker put another sign: “Our demand: 6 real new gymnasias!” on which the desired locations are to be read, in front of the speaker’s desk.]] The youth in Floridsdorf, in Aspern, in Brigittenau, in Penzing, in Liesing and in Favorites has a right to a gymnasium, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In conclusion, perhaps still on the topic of model regions. – Dear Harald Walser, you probably also read the paper, and I want to tell you in advance, Mr Mag. Doortscher has in it – from your point of view an outsider position! – he has stated the following: [[Abg. Walser: An outsider position!]] Evident is that a high academic rate – and I am guarding against discrimination against all those students, all those young people who choose a different path from that of the Matura – is always associated with a high proportion of unemployment. You don't like to hear that, that refuses her, but that's fact! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Walser: The ÖVP Vorarlberg doesn't like to hear that!]] Our task is to ensure that all have the opportunity to take up a profession corresponding to one's own wishes, needs, inclinations and trainings. We have ensured that the systems are permeable. This is our education concept, and we will continue to do so in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00094_d8e3550	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00094_d8e3572	Madam President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! First of all, a remarkable marginal note; I quote from the 93. National Council meeting. In line with today's list of speakers, I note that Mrs Meinl-Reisinger meant at the last meeting: "That means that this is my farewell speech in Parliament today. [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] “ Why not? This is followed by the call for let me say: “We’ll see you here even longer!” Now I have to say: Those who can appreciate the future so realistically can choose it with comfort, and those who do not even see their own life planning properly will probably be able to choose less. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What has also irritated us a little, there should obviously also be a parallel universe there: We have seen on "orf.at" that the Greens have announced 50 questions about education, the Federal Minister also has 50. Question answered – However, we have received a request text with only 49 questions! [[Abg. Walser: 50!]] Clearly, as I have already stated in my statement on the Rules of Procedure, there should be different knowledge content between the ORF and others. On the one hand, there are 50 questions, on the other hand 49 questions. [[Abg. Walser: When you turn around, it goes on!]] Mr Walser, there's nothing to do with turning around. You as the head of the house should look at your own request, in which you started on page 2 with small initial letters and obviously even forgot text blocks! [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] You have a serious mistake in your own question, Mr. Oberzensor, Mr. Oberlehrer of the Republic! [[Abg. Walser: 50!]] Be less excited! And one thing you have to tell you... [[Abg. Walser: If you always turn around, you can see it!]] – In the distributed copy it is not 50! Look You keep what you place on the copyer if you do so uncoordinated! I can't assume what you're cutting at home in the evening, but only from what's being distributed to Members here in the house. So often, reality can break up. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But one, Mrs. Walser, but also Mrs. Glavischnig, you really have to be attested: You have courage! When I see as a Vorarlberger or here in Vienna, for example, that federal states after the achievement of education... [[Prolonged calls of the Abg. Walser.]] – Mr Walser, listen! We're not in your school class right now, where you can buy anything. Now you listen, then I can read something from the education standards, which extends your horizon, which is essential: Vorarlberg and Vienna have significantly fewer pupils who reach or exceed the standards. And: The highest proportions of the most disadvantaged students are found in Vienna, 17 percent, and Vorarlberg. Vienna can therefore really be seen as a red-green model, as a “success model”. If, in mathematics, the most powerful students arise in a red-green education responsibility, then this suggests a lot. But now a few basics. I am excited whether the Greens have failed after this answer to the question. The only terms I have now received during the remarks of the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs were: not now, exchange, discuss, develop, calculate, employ, not yet in detail, difficult, create, be patient, merge, and so on. [[Abg. Höbart: How have you been for years!]] This is the information we have very briefly, relatively shortly before the 17th century. November, the great day of educational reform in Austria, was received by Mrs. Federal Minister today. Mrs Grossmann said that we can talk about education very much and never enough. - Yes, that's really true. What is already talking about education policy here is talking, talking and not being done – which ultimately matters – is really filling up volumes of the Stenographical Parliament protocols. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But I would like to address a few very basic things, as we imagine a system of education, and this differs from what has come here from the green and the SPÖ side. The Federal Minister has said that everything will now be done to make the students feel comfortable at school. To this end, the great Austrian education scientist says: They used to ask the children when they came home from school: Have you learned anything today? Today you have to ask the children: Did you feel good? - That's what it's all about. Not only is it about feeling comfortable in school, but it is also about learning something in school. Unfortunately, God’s attention has now been too much focused on the feeling of well - being and not on the fact that one actually acquires education. [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: That there is a connection between joy and learning...!]] There you can now interpret your things as you want. Something else: What do you want to say, if teachers in schools show that 70 percent of the teaching time is used to provide discipline in the school class first before there is a knowledge transfer at all? What answers do you provide? You there? – None at all! [[Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek: Which schools do you know? Which schools are you talking about?]] Mrs Glavischnig, I now quote from your speech the reason for the question. They said that parents had to be released from these education tasks – domestic exercises and so on. That's the point! And I tell you, our point is: The power in a positive sense – the power in a positive sense – for their children should still have the responsible and above all loving parents. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This is the point and not your doctrine of removing children from the parents' home as quickly as possible so that you can monitor parents and children! They're excited about the surveillance state, about what NSA and others are doing with us, down to the security police law. You want nothing but to push the children from early to late into school in the style of a GDR education so that you can continue your reeducation work. [[Abg. Walser: This is an incredible derailment!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Walser: You need it!]] – Yes, Mr Walser, you should lower your pulse once again! It is a question of recognizing that there are, of course, parents who are unable or unwilling to do educational work for their children, and of course the state has to stand by them in order to preserve the opportunities of these children. But You want to turn the situation around. [[Abg. Walser: In a modern school system...!]] They say “modern” – it is ancient. [[Abg. Walser: What you want is 19. 19th century!]] It was the talk of having something “in the pear, ” colleague Walser. Do you know what you're planning? – You have the cane in your head, the cane for a good school system you have in your head! That's what you want, that's the only pear you can understand. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is a socio-political draft that you are planning, but we are very clear to you how important the parents, teachers and students are in the system. And are they represented in the Education Reform Commission? Not even Mrs. Jank himself is sitting in the Education Reform Commission, she only hopes there will be a package. I am very skeptical, especially since some well-known politicians – I am thinking of the head of state Pröll or head of state Niessl – have already passed. They have clearly recognized that the time they invest there is not good, because nothing good will come out of it. That's how I appreciate these politicians. But – and now I can’t leave the ÖVP entirely out of the responsibilities – and of course I read and hear about the “retain of the gymnasium”, Mr Walser refers to what is said by the ÖVP in the western federal states, the gymnasium remains, and so on, we have heard the lip knowledge, but the gymnasium sleeps on the hunger cloth! Every day I reach letters from parents' associations because the gymnasium is starved. It is a socialist reflex: If something doesn't fit in, then it's broken. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In the Federal Army it has been so among SPÖ ministers, and in education it is no different. In the letters it says: bad room situation, no wardrobes, the upper-level students stand in the shoes all day, even in winter, the clothes lie or hangs in the classes – I have already said this in the last session – there is no money for heating there. There are problems because the gymnasium is dried out. [[Abg. Krainer: This is the problem of gymnasium!]] That's the gymnasium problem?- Oh, my God! Who of the SPÖ said that? Show me! [[Call the FPÖ: “Professor” Krainer!]] Show me! – Professor Krainer shows. Mr Krainer, I should like to make two motions for resolutions on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. [[Quoted print version removed]] This is also the case: that the children do not even get a schoolground if they have the right to do so. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusions of the Abg. Krainer.]] – Mr Krainer currently has some complete wordrap, or what about him? [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] A second request: Motion for a resolution by Dr Walter Rosenkranz, colleagues on ‘German classes’ for students without sufficient knowledge of the language of teaching The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Government, and in particular the Federal Minister for Education and Women, are invited to take the necessary measures to ensure that pupils are taught in their own classes with a lack of knowledge of the language of education until they have sufficient knowledge of the language of education." I would like to quote Mr. Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. August: “Unfortunately, the Minister of Education has long resisted and rejected this idea as a ghetto class. I think it’s high time to finally implement this idea, because that would be the right promotion for all these children.” – Quotation Minister Kurz. In this sense, the ÖVP is cordially invited to agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00094_d8e3879	Both motions for resolutions have been properly tabled and are therefore under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00094_d8e3977	Mr Klubobmann Dr. Strolz is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00094_d8e3998	Madam President. Estimated government members! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear citizens! Dear students, welcome, we talk about you and a better school! I brought a little bit. Mr. Rosenkranz, first for you: Eat a Snicker, because whenever you are hungry, you will become a Diva! [[the speaker shows such a]] Please pick up for the next break! [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] I think we've explained very clearly how this is with the Beate Meinl-Reisinger. [[Congratulations on Members of the NEOS.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] – Or eat it immediately, then you can react, help a little sugar. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkränz: A liver-coffin, here I go with the Otto Pendl!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] Beate Meinl-Reisinger is – she has written the paper in the Ministry of the Interior – with 9. I'm sorry. I'm sorry, but I'm sorry. I'm sorry, but I'm sorry. This, according to my knowledge, is a unique process in the Second Republic, that one is at risk of going in the direction of Vienna with this upright course. See, that's the difference: While Mr Strache is not even here at a special meeting, Beate Meinl-Reisinger is ready to go to risk here and then. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Darmann]] For the third time, Mr. Strache has turned the population around with the same number [[Congratulation with the NEOS]] He is here on Vienna Duelant and will sit back here in two months, at least as a parliamentary breakfast Klubobmann: come and then go quickly. But that is not sincere, and that is the quality difference! [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: He's just breakfasting with Lopatka and Schieder!]] The second point: Mrs. Brigitte Jank, I brought you this: Man's cuts. [[The speaker shows a package.]] You mentioned the Manner cuts here as a good reference for the Austrian education system. But, with all the love for the man's cuts, that's what it says: “125 years of men”, and so I come in here at an educational debate! [[In the case of NEOS, the members of the SPÖ and the Agg. Walser.]] It's the 150. Cite of the 100-year struggle of an ideologically charged debate in which you say: We need the AHS, and the other side says: We need the common school, the school for all between 10 and 14 years, which we pack into a template! [[Abg. Walser: What do NEOS say?]] I'm of the opinion – I don't know if I'm going to be bored or nervous, I'm always up and down there – we can end this 100-year fight, we just have to want it. As a confidence advance, Harald Walser, in Vorarlberg, we have actually agreed to the request for the joint school because we simply want to get in the way. We believe, however, that the common school should not be a beautiful recast of the classical school idea, just a template over all over it, and I do not think that we should go with the demolition mountain to the AHS – I am already with you. I think the SPÖ is right, we have to take the dumpling division. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walser.]] The Greens, but also we see it this way: gone with the dull division of the nine or nine-and-a-half years! I have a daughter who is at this age and I see and experience how miserable that is. I also see how the children of the FPÖ politicians, the SPÖ politicians, the ÖVP politicians, the Green-Politics in Vienna still push into the gymnasium. What we are talking about here in the context of an ideological debate is not in line with what we ourselves are living. That's actually a lie. And that is why we should do this differently, not as such an ideological debate. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: We want it too, the power of the family and not the power of the wallet!]] - I'm not done yet. So the SPÖ, the Greens and the NEOS are right when they say: Let's stop the division at nine and a half years! This is a stigmatization that is simply miserable. At each garden party, the children, when they are siblings, are asked: Where are you going? Aha, you're going to the gymnasium. And you don't? How bad! – The young person has a damage to life through this stigmatization; through this stigmatization, which takes place at every Christmas celebration, at every family celebration. Let's stop with this bullshit! – That really excites me. [[We welcome the NEOS and the representatives of SPÖ and Greens.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] The ÖVP is right, I say, before you yell, too. The ÖVP has been saying for years and decades: We need individualization! – Yes, we are with you, we NEOS are allies. We need a diverse school, as diverse as life is and as young people's talents are. We don't need military template. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walter Rosenkranz.]] Now I ask you to open up for the third way, because there is a third way. Imagine, the 100-year fight of ideologies is over. Since Otto Glöckel has advertised for the entire school and has not received a majority, we are fighting. For 100 years we have been fighting in this ideology debate. And imagine, we'll end this fight after 100 years! Imagine one side right and the other side is right, as we have noted! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Nice.]] Imagine, there is, if both are right, a common third way, and we should go this third way together. We also described this in the book “The Mündige Schule”, together with many experts. [[Call the FPÖ:What?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Walser: Hello!]] - Yeah, you wrote along, great. I also praise the Harald Walser, we're not so far apart. It is only important to me that we understand the common school as a common school of diversity. I think that's very important. Mrs. Minister! I should also like to point out the following: There was a “education of civil society” in September, as nearly 30 initiatives have been combined. People from all over the world, from popular desires, education initiative, industrial association, relief work, deacony, everyK!nd, association economy for integration, platform eduCare, association of parents associations at public compulsory schools, teacher for Austria, Catholic action, Austrian Red Cross, Caritas, all of them agree and sign this third way. They are also ready to leave behind the 100-year struggle. They want to work, they come from many initiatives that actually prove in everyday life that things are different – and they are not sufficiently involved, Mrs. Minister! That is why I am promoting the involvement of civil society. We should actually say goodbye to one another and let the other in. We should say goodbye to the party book as the most important book in the Austrian school, which has no place anymore. Get out of it! [[Congratulations with the NEOS.]] Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] We can push the party book out of school if we want it. We'll see if you really want it today. I would like to agree. Dear citizens! I can assure you that the ÖVP and the SPÖ do not want to do so because they are concerned with power policy and nothing else. That's why even two national leaders – the word we're not saying now – are not too sorry to stand up in the educational reform discussion and say: [[Call the FPÖ:Blow!]] What, I don't get power-political access to the federal teachers?- Oh, my God! Then I won't join you anymore! – That’s beyond! At no time were the students' interests put at the centre. At no time! [[Congratulation with the NEOS and the Abg. Mayer.]] It's just power-political interests. That's a real... – This word, too, we leave now. If the party book is outside, we have room for new things. Let us, Madam Minister, bring civil society in instead! Let's get the many hearted educators, parents, teachers, people involved in education! Therefore, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mrs. Minister! If you want to implement a sustainable education reform, you must use broad national consensus mechanisms to create a broad national consensus. Harald Walser – another praise, Harald, for you – has already mentioned this, and he is perfectly right, that shows us all other countries: If we want to bring something really big into the world, we have to put it on wide legs. – This has not happened so far! Mrs Minister, for months I have been lying to you with the question in my ear: When do you involve us as opposition fractions? – ‘Why?’ asks State Secretary Harald Mahrer. [[State Secretary Mahrer: What for?]] [[Other interlocutory remarks by Secretary-General Mahrer.]] I'm going to be a fool! For what? – Because we are elected representatives of the people! Hallelujah! Are you all right? For what? You know, we were in the Netherlands together. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walser.]] – No, Harald Walser, that’s an ignorance, that’s incredible! [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] The Minister of the Interior is looking at the government bank and says: You know I'm missing 343 million, but I'm not telling you exactly where we're going to get them! And that in October of the year! They ignore Parliament and the population in a way that is heaven-screaming. And unfortunately it won't be better either, that's the tragedy! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00094_d8e4319	The two motions for resolutions have been properly tabled and are under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00094_d8e4590	Next speaker: Mr Klubobmann Ing. Lugar. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00094_d8e4611	After Mr Strolz's speech, I must say that I should perhaps embrace a tree, because you get that impression, you get it, right energy. That's not a bad idea, I think. If you have school-based children in Austria – as I do – then two things are helpful: first, if you live in a good area, and second, if you bring some luck, because you need exactly luck in our school system. You need to be lucky that the child gets a motivated, committed and suitable teacher when you are in school. I'm so lucky to thank God. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek.]] Because if that is not the case, we have a problem in our school system. Parents are constantly coming to me who have just this problem: They have a school-based child, don't be lucky to have a corresponding teacher – and there's no handling against it! That means you can give the children, if you have enough money, to a private school, but if you don't have enough money or you don't want to spend so much, you have a problem. And when you go to the director, the director says: This teacher is not suitable from my point of view! – You, Madam Minister, have admitted to it today, there are such teachers. The problem, however, is that in our system, the director does not have the opportunity to simply replace this teacher and perhaps to open up a new perspective in another profession. No, if he's lucky, he can give her one, two, three years after he let her go to the students as a hiking pot to the next school. That is how our system works – and then the parents in the next school have the same problem again, namely that there is a teacher who is simply not suitable. The system does not offer any means to prevent this, and the director is powerless. That's why you're wondering, of course: Why is that so? Why is the Director powerless and why must the Director come to you and beg: Please, please, move this teacher/teacher!? – If you appreciate what is not always the case, he will be transferred to another school. Why is that so? – The answer to this is quite simple: because you do not want to give your power instrument out of hand. You don't want to give the school power instrument out of hand! It is not about the children, nor is it about what a colleague of yours has said today, namely that we do not know what we want from school. Is it really so, we don't know? After so many decades, do we not know what we want? I can tell you what we want from school – that's not much at all –: We want everyone to learn to read and write. A quarter can't do that after compulsory school! After nine years of school, a quarter cannot read and write! I say: We want everyone to read and write! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] And I'm saying, I want some of those who go to school to perform outstanding achievements and then to be able to perform outstanding achievements in the economy and in other areas, for all of us. - That's what I want. That's not much. But that doesn't make the school. And why can't she do it? – Because They want to rule centrally from top to bottom into every smallest class and together with the chiefs of the country do not want to give up the influence. It doesn't make any sense at all, because you don't have anything to contribute at all. They appear to me like in the GDR or also in the Soviet Union, where the Central Committee has decided how many shoes and above all what sizes are produced. This has been decided by the Central Committee for the whole country. Do you know what happened then? – Most have walked around with either too big or too small shoes. That's exactly what I'm The same happens in school: For one thing, it doesn't fit, it's too little, and for the other, it's an overload. And that's what you're protecting with your system. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Many have said yes: You can't get away from politics, because it's about something! This is a social-political suicide, if politics does not intervene here, something can really happen! - I'll just give you an example: If an installer comes home to you and places a gas pipeline across the house – people could die, the whole house could fly into the air – do you tell the installer what he needs to do, how he needs to do it? Turn on the installer and decide who's boss and who's allowed to be an installer, who's coming to the construction site? - You don't do that either. There are rules, there are very precise procedures by which one proceeds, and then practically nothing happens. And so it should be in school: They should make proper rules and specify what we want from school – we want everyone to be able to read and write when he leaves school, we also want outstanding achievements, we want to promote special talents, and we don't want to leave anyone behind; that's enough in itself – and make a control system within which you regularly, twice a year, check whether the school does what it is supposed to do. And the rest is at school. The rest is at school! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] That is, the rest of the director decide on site, the local teachers together with the parents. The rest make those on site who know where the need is. I'll tell you one thing: A school in Vienna needs something different than a school for example in Perchtoldsdorf, in Baden or elsewhere where. And who knows best what that is? Do you know that best? You have celebrated yourself today, you have now visited 16 schools – na bravo. Do you think you know more now than the local directors? Do you think you know more now than the teachers on the spot? – That’s not the case, and that’s the point. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walser.]] [[Abg. Brosz: Especially we know less than you do!]] If you don't think you don't know what it's all about on the spot, you just need to look at hundreds of refugee children – without you having any idea what the children are doing there – in classes where they can neither follow the lessons nor get anything. That doesn't make any sense! That wouldn't make a director on site. He would say: Okay, here are five refugee children, now I'm doing my own class, or maybe we'll get them together with refugee children from other schools, so that we can get to 10, 15 children that makes sense, and then we'll learn German once, until they can follow the regular lessons! - That's what the house's talking about. You can also do this in your New Middle School, where with your ideological fantasies you all pear in one class and hope that it works when you go on a ski holiday with the class: The first thing you do is, you divide the children into service groups on the first day, so that those who drive the flight to the club don't have to ride with those who can already race perfectly, and learn, because that doesn't work because the one who can't drive is depressed because he always stops all, and those who drive well can't learn anything either because they always have to wait for the one who doesn't come along. That's house sense, but you don't bring that house mind with you when it comes to school. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] They don't bring the mind of the house, which says you have to separate for so long until the level of performance is roughly equal. Then you can give the students back to a common class, and then it works. [[Abg. Brosz: Is that before the Matura or after the Matura?]] What you're doing now is the following: They don't even give children with migration backgrounds a chance to come because you're blocking them. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Walser.]] They hinder them by putting them in these classes and not giving them the opportunity to come along. What does it make sense if a Syrian child is sitting in the third class of a folk school, can neither read nor write, and does not control the German language, is simply overwhelmed with what is taught there? It doesn't do anything. Everyone's just frustrated. They're saying these kids are gonna pick up. That may be, but what price does everyone pay for it? – The class as a whole pays a price for it because you have to wait permanently for the one that does not come along. The student himself pays a price for it because he is depressed. He feels as an espionager, as not assumed, because he cannot be integrated into the class association accordingly, even during the break due to the language barrier cannot be integrated. [[Abg. Brosz: Have you attended a school?]] Why not make what would be reasonable, a class of your own, so that the children learn the language once? And then – you'll see that – the refugee children could really keep up, because they're not stupid, they're just disabled because of the language barrier. And that's why you have to give them a chance to keep up. – You don't do that because you're ideologically blinded. That's why I say – I can't say it often enough –: Politics out of school! Politics has lost nothing in school! There's nothing you know better than the teachers, the parents and the directors on the spot. That's why: Politics out of school!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00094_d8e4722	The next item is the speech by Mr Schmid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00094_d8e4744	Thank you, Mr President. High house! I would like to be a little more basic than Mr Lugar, namely: Albert Einstein once said: “Everyone is a genius! But if you drag a fish after that, whether it can climb a tree, he will believe all his life that he is stupid." The meaning of this quote is: We are all the same, but every person has a different background, comes from another family, has other needs, has other talents, and the most important thing a school can do is to bring every person, every youth where he is, and also to somehow give him a certain sense of self-confidence for life, to strengthen him and also to light up a little fire in him. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Unfortunately, our schools look quite different at the moment, which, as it were, come from the model mostly from the 18th century. ==References== At that time the empress thought: We need factories where we young people so to speak, with 30, 40 students in one class, with a teacher who teaches in frontal classes in 50 minutes units, the whole as well as the flow band, and who, so to speak, does not flow on this tape, he flies out. – The goal was actually good workers who did not ask any other big questions. Obviously, a lot has improved since then, but in the core it is still the same model, and the problem is that this core, this model of the factory, no longer fits into modern times and makes quite a lot of students really unhappy, does not give many self-confidence but takes self-confidence and costs us and, of course, our society rather incredibly much money and resources and creativity. So what does that mean? What would we do to change this system and bring in a little more individuality? The first point I think is incredibly important is: We need more teachers. – For example, I can tell you: My father taught at an HTL until two years ago, he was an HTL teacher in Carinthia and taught 250 students in ten classes in the same year – 250 students! There you can imagine, in such a setting individuality or individual approach to students de facto is no longer possible. There you can be glad when you notice the names, there you can be glad if you promote a few, but more is not possible. That is why we Greens say quite specifically that we now need 1,000 teachers for Vienna, for example, and we must also take money into account for that. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. New builder: He was good!]] Second point: We need a module system. – That means that more must go in the direction that you do not learn all the time only in the area where your own weaknesses lie, and then you are rather frustrated, but that you learn in the area where your own strengths lie and what makes you fun. For example, for us Greens, we want a module system where you can really set your own priorities from the top level. I think, for example, that if you do not change politics, the central matura goes exactly in the wrong direction. Third point: We need more project education. That means that we need to get more to the point that we don't have these rigid 50-minute-band units, but that we're going more in the direction: Why not work a week, two weeks, or a month on a project that's fun? – That’s exactly what the central points are! Fourth point: We need more resources towards what schools really need. Different schools need different funding, for example in the promotion of language. In Vienna, half of the students who start now have no more German than their native language. The point is that we Greens ask ourselves how we can benefit from this, how we can support each youth individually. And the difference is, for example, that, I don't know, the free education programme is just that: Move them all! [[Abg. Neubauer: That's not true!]] [[Call the FPÖ: Please!]] We Greens say we should simply promote that. I'm sorry, but now you're not doing so innocently! [[Abg. New builder: Well, that's a nonsense!]] The point is, you have, for example, rejected in Vienna in the municipal council every single measure that has gone towards German teaching and funding. Every single measure has rejected the FPÖ! That is the truth! They are really the young people who are completely wreaked. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We want all young people, and that's something now... – Yes, I know that you are now shocked, but we Greens find that all young people are really worth a lot, whether they're poor or they're rich or from which parent house they come, whether you're a woman or a man or gay or hetero or with disability or without disability. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Don't believe everything the Lord Ellensohn always tells you!]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Unfortunately, that is not quite true! Unfortunately, that's not quite true! Ask yourself about your private students!]] We Greens want all young people to have the same opportunities and opportunities in Austria. We want to go there, even if you don't like it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein.]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Ask Mrs. Stoisits!]] By the way, of course, that costs something. Unfortunately, we have a big hole in the education system, which costs something, but the central point is: Every euro we now invest in education comes back first in four years, and second, it is something of which my generation, of which we boys will really benefit. That's why: Whoever is against this standstill – I really hope that a little something will come out of the Reform Commission, but I fear that unfortunately this will not be the case – who really wants to end the standstill in education policy, please – next Sunday is again a choice – not always the ones that have been in power for decades, because exactly these are also the problem in the whole debate. [[Abg. New builder: Not the greens!]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: No, he said “years”!]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00094_d8e4916	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00094_d8e4937	Ladies and gentlemen! I too am very glad that the topic of education reform has been chosen as an issue for today's special session, because we cannot discuss often enough about how we imagine that education opportunities for our children and young people are being further improved, and also how we are developing and developing the ever-increasing concrete implementation steps together. From our point of view, there are some principles that are particularly important in the reform of education and are at the centre of it, and of course one of the main points is that the curiosity of the children, the curiosity with which the children come to the first class, must be preserved and the joy of learning must be preserved, because – Mr Rosenkranz, I come to the topic of wellbeing in school – I do not know where you see the problem. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: If you just feel more comfortable!]] We all know – almost everyone – that children learn more when they feel comfortable. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: You don't learn! You're not learning!]] I see no contradiction between learning and feeling well in class – quite the contrary! In a situation of drill and reluctance, the children will learn less. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Yes, that's why we have these well-run illiterate illiterates!]] The second important principle from my point of view is that the strengths of children must be strengthened and the weaknesses weakened. That sounds so natural and simple. Sometimes even simple measures and support would be necessary, minor internal differentiations within a common school, so that individual children can also be affected accordingly and individually, according to their needs. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And what is particularly important from the point of view of the Socialist Group: We don't want to leave a child behind. It cannot be assumed that a child who comes from a parent house where the wallet is thicker, has better educational opportunities. If we keep these principles in mind, we can also see the direction in which a reform of education needs to develop. From our point of view, it has therefore been particularly important that the mayor of Vienna has immediately decided to go to the Education Reform Commission, after the Minister of Education has invited him to do so – and with great pleasure to go to this reform commission, because he is one of the top politicians in our country, who is particularly concerned with the education policy, the opportunities of our children and young people. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Walser: But that with the common school... explain how it works!]] Of course, we have to ask ourselves what our children need and then develop the structures accordingly. It was already presented in a speech about how miserable – that has been so said, and I can agree – that is to play fate and decide on children with nine and a half years of age: You can go to one school and you go to the other school!, and if then in the fourth class or at children's parties or at family festivals and so on, who is allowed to attend the gymnasium, and show some and not others. So I'm quite with you: I also believe that this decision for the children will be much too early and that we should develop the joint school of the 9 to 14-year-olds here and finally help this important project for our children to break through. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] From the liberals was meant here, one wants to take away the parents with this school. – I don’t think I’m allowed to say stupidity here in the house, but it would be obvious after such a claim. [[Abg. Glavischig-Piesczek: Yes, but, yes! You can do it! You can't say "poor"!]] [[Call at the SPÖ:It has happened!]] – I am not saying it, but quite the opposite is the case! [[The President-in-Office of the Council shall take over the Presidency.]] It is about supporting the parents who want the best for their children, but who cannot be a permanent follow-up teacher or a follow-up teacher for their children. And those who can't afford to pay back help, they'll stay on the track. – That’s why it is, and that’s why this reform would be so necessary. However, I am very glad that, for this interim period in which we do not yet have this school form, one has decided in Vienna – that was a very big concern to the mayor of Vienna – in Vienna, during the time that the school form is changed, to offer free support for those children whose parents cannot afford it. I've been very surprised today: In the speech of the first liberal speaker it took a relatively long time for him to come to the children with non-German mother tongue. But then he made a request to get these children and put them in his own classes. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kitzmüller.]] That, ladies and gentlemen, is the completely wrong way! Children learn so much from each other, and therefore it is especially important that these children stay in class with the other children and are specifically supported. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] And finally, I would like to have you guessed: Who is repeatedly voting against support measures, against language support, against integration promotion in Vienna? – This is the Freedom Party, and it is very obvious to suspect that the Freeman has no interest at all in solving a problem, but are very happy if there are problems that are not solved and they are moving like fish in the water. [[Interlocutory calls by Mr Kitzmüller and Mr Schimanek]] [[Abg. Schimanek:...! You didn't listen!]] This decision is about Sunday: whether we are going further constructively step by step towards education reform – or towards hetification, but no one can really imagine it today. [[Abg. Schimanek: But please, Mrs. Colleague!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00094_d8e5110	Next, Mr El Habbassi. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00094_d8e5132	Mr President. Estimated ministers! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! As a politician, I have had the goal of making education on the issue of number one, and I am pleased that we are finally discussing education again today, because we should do so much more often in this House. I am grateful that we are discussing, but I would still like to see that we would sometimes move into the audiences who might be listening to these discussions in front of the TV screen. And if you listen like this – apart from the fact that a critical observer will wonder or even wonder that this discussion is taking place now, almost a month before the planned first results of a reform commission and just a week before a municipal council election in Vienna – then there should be some thought, and we should ask ourselves if we should not discuss education in a framework where it is not about sending out any election messages in the last minute and perhaps get a little attention for our own group, but about the question: What is best for the children in our country? – I wish! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] If you listen to this, you have the feeling that in Austria there is an incredibly bad education system, it even goes downhill and it gets worse and worse, and the offers of how to solve it are: We need an overall school and we should only focus more on reading and writing. – I wonder one thing: One of the main problems that we have is that we are not really moving forward in mathematics; so, Mr Lugar, perhaps you should include calculations there too. In addition, I would like school to be more than just reading, writing and computing, but especially in times like these, social skills, also skills in the field of computer science, economic knowledge, natural sciences and so on. – I think school must be more than just so little. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I do not believe that the parents who want the best education for their children, and students who are in school, or people like the federal school speaker, who daily work to make education in Austria even better, have an interest in pursuing these old ideological debates. And I do not think that the people who follow this debate are interested in hearing how bad everything is, interested in hearing the same proposals over and over again, but they would like to know what our answers are to the questions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neubauer]] What is the content of a school of the future? What are the teaching content we need? What spaces can we create for educators? How can we relieve them with support forces? How do we manage the transitions from the primary school to the lower level so that there is no pressure on teachers to forgive only one so that everyone or the large majority can then go to the gymnasium? And by the way, gymnasium: The ÖVP does not therefore stand for the gymnasium, because it would not be willing to think about other things – if the Vorarlbergers were to present an idea about the model region or were proposed other things in Tyrol, then we will look at it and then we will discuss it on the basis of these proposals – but we are for maintaining the gymnasium, because most of the parents want to bring their child into a gymnasium, because the gymnasium brings the best results for the resources used compared with others. [[Abg. Darmann: Mr. colleague, who is in the Federal Government?]] – These are things that you should not hide in this debate just because you may pursue other ideological goals. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Darmann: You are in the Federal Government!]] Mr Walser, you made six points last week in this debate. I would like to focus briefly on these points. ‘Federal unit management structure’ means: This does not have an impact on quality in school, but it is a subject that we should definitely talk about. ‘A Ministry of Education’ means: This once again has zero impact on the quality of the school, no one child will use anything; we are actually talking about administrative issues again. One can talk about it, I just think that these savings, which one may have made at the point before, are going back to this point, because we all know, and those who have already merged a company know what costs such a structural change entails. [[Abg. Glavischnig-Piesczek: But to understand elementary pedagogy as education...!]] Elementary education is the third point, not the second, Mrs Klubobmann, and here we are, that is an important point. The Reform Commission is now dealing with this, with a legal claim for parents on the kindergarten for children from the first year of life. I would just ask you once, talk to a mayor or mayor, count Once you get through what this will cost, and compare it with the realities we're facing now! [[Abg. Walser: Let us first ask what we need, and then look at how we finance it! ... agree, but first ask: What makes sense?]] This will certainly not be a solution to the fact that we are now getting a better education offer in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Next point: ‘Enhancement of all day schools’ means: I can remember that this is something that the government has set itself to do and that is being driven forward. You write it yourself. And yet one should consider: There is a good reason why we want to force all day schools in the ÖVP: because people need something like that. But one must always distinguish between mandatory for all, limited – or for all those who need it, for all those who want to make the offer. That is the position of the EIA in this debate. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Walser: Let us ask you first what is more educationally meaningful! That would be the question! What benefits the children most, that is the question!]] And then it is about pressure from the government regarding common school – that means such model regions. I have already said that we are now simply waiting for the proposals that are now coming from Vorarlberg. There has been a study, there will now be inside the government at the points wanted by the government. If these are then brought in, I think the Minister and all the other parties involved will certainly take them into the discussion. And at the end of the day, we come to a point that is at the heart of this Education Reform Commission, namely school autonomy. So we have all recognized the problem, and all of us wish for freedom in the design – in the educational, in the human, but also in the organizational design –, we wish for unity in the principles – as far as the objectives, the content, the training offers and so on – and we wish that all these things would be implemented slenderly. That's what it's all about: Form follows function – first you see what you want, and then you see how to build the administration and the organization for it. This is the way in which the Education Reform Commission is being observed. Things that we already need, like teacher training new, are on the way, the expansion of all day school is on the way, and the Education Reform Commission is now dealing with the issues of autonomy and the points I have mentioned them. I would like to make one request at the end of the day – because today the Federal School speaker is here: Yes, the stakeholders belong to, and yes, they are partially involved – I know that State Secretary Mahrer is on the ÖVP side in very close exchange with many stakeholders – but I would like a federal school speaker not only to be able to follow the discussion here from the gallery, but also that the minister also gives an invitation, not only to the student representatives, but also to the parents and – last but not least – also to the teachers that they are directly involved. [[Abg. Walser: Who is in Parliament where the decision is taken?]] This is, I believe, a way where the seed of a reform commission falls on a ground where something new can be created, namely the best school for the Austrians. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00094_d8e5292	Next, Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00094_d8e5313	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Mr President, you will then, after you have said that the EIA is for the high school, because the parents want it and because it is profitable to accept our motion for a resolution, which provides that there will also have to be enough places. We will then see your voting behaviour. Mrs Kuntzl! I would also like to say to you, because you have been so excited that we now demand Gettoclasses with the request that my colleague Rosenkranz has made here: This is a call from the Minister of Foreign Affairs or the Minister of Integration for Integration in short, i.e. your coalition partner! Did you tell him he wanted ghetto classes? Have you been so excited? So I can't understand that. For me, this was a bit of a Justament critique. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It will be discussed again today about education in Austria. It has been a permanent debate lately. But you can also break something. I sometimes feel that there's a little bit going on here. The entire educational debate has been an ideological playground for years. There, with school attempts on the one hand and with reforms on the other, it is always trying to change something to get where you really want to go. The Federal Minister said it today, her dream is the common school all day. Mrs. Federal Minister! This one of your dreams is a nightmare for me. I don't want to. I don't want a forced obligation for all children to sit in school all day. That's the wrong way! I'm telling you that quite openly. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And yes, it's right, of course, it's changed society. There are many alone mothers. There are women in work who often need early care. In my time, the school started at 8 o'clock, today there are schools that already lock up at 6.30 a.m., where there are some kind of groups for children who have to go to school earlier. This can be taken into account by the system, and this must be taken into account by the system. And yes, there's afternoon care, and that's good, important and right for those kids who need it. But on a voluntary basis! Because one thing I'm telling you is: I think it's a package condemnation to make up here and say all the kids are playing with the gameboy or looking away in the afternoon. I'm sure that's not right. Children have leisure activities, learn musical instruments, go to sports clubs. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There are quite a lot of fields of activity, and that should be so, because I think that is the right way. And honestly, parents also have a bit of a right to decide how children make their free time. And there must be something like a right to family. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My previous speaker has now criticized the right to a kindergarten from the first year of life. In my hometown of Vienna there is a city school council president who calls for a mandatory kindergarten visit from the first year of life. That is a rejection, ladies and gentlemen, because that is pure ideology! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! You said in your speech today that it is not about ideology at all. Well, of course, it's about ideological games you're doing here. It is tricked around here, and you can see this above all by the example of Vienna. If Mr Grossmann says that Vienna is an educational model because there are such great educational institutions, I have to ask you the opposite question: Why does Vienna have the highest share of young people who do not find a job? Why does Vienna have the highest share of young people who cannot read meaningfully? – So your bill can't be quite right. That's not true! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have a very big problem in Vienna: a very large proportion of migrants who sit in school for eight or nine years and cannot be German and therefore cannot follow the lessons. It makes sense to say: first learn German and then school. And that has nothing to do with Getto. I tell you quite honestly, when I went to school, there was also a class in my gymnasium only with Iranians who had been dissolved after a year. I don't think they saw themselves as ghetto. But they could then follow the instruction, and that makes sense, because everything else makes no sense. These children and young people then take this deficit with them all their schooling. And these are the young people we lose. These are also the young people who then quit their trainings. Nor is it about the fact that so many young people who have completed compulsory school no longer have a teaching place in the first labour market, because they are unable to read meaningfully, just as one hears from the economy. They are then trained in over-company teaching workshops for expensive money. - That's the failure of the school! We have to start at school before we can save ourselves. That's the real problem. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They do not want to hear it, but also the so-called PISA study confirms this problem. She shows it exactly when you calculate it: Children with non-German mother tongue have significantly worse results. This is also a failure of the school because these children do not learn German enough. Mr Schmid! Because you said that the FPÖ would have voted against all the measures in the Vienna municipal council, I tell you that is completely incorrect. Completely incorrect! The Freedom Party voted against in the Vienna Landtag and the Municipal Council when it came to promoting clubs that, for example, “Mama learns German” with coffee and cakes. This is not a target. That's the only thing that's all about promoting your clubs. We have always voted against it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have never voted against sensible measures to promote German learning. But it would also be useful to say from the Greens once more, yes, we want German to be learned before teaching. That would be a topic, because the Greens might also be able to profile and think about it. That would make sense. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If we look at where the Greens give their children, then we see they are private schools or they are public elite schools. [[Abg. Walser: No greener!]] Oh, no, no, no, no, They're public elite schools. Read it in your central organ, the “Falter ”! [[Abg. Walser: All children of the Green National Councillors go to public schools!]] ==References== District of the bilingual folk school in the autumn street. This school, especially on the upper floor, visits the English classes, politicians' children of the Red and the Greens. The most expensive school form in Vienna!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00094_d8e5438	Now comes Mrs Mag. Meinl-Risinger to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00094_d8e5487	Mr President. Dear women Federal ministers! Mrs and Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, first of all: I have obviously caused confusion in the FPÖ Group. I'm infinitely sorry, because nothing is more to me than to confuse you. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: No, you didn't confuse us! That's good-bye speech, second!]] I have the feeling you're already confused enough. I will now show you here – Mr Darmann, I will give it to you – the letter concerning my relinquishing of my mandate, Vienna, on 23. September, so on the day of my guessed last speech here in the National Council to the Ministry of the Interior, that I will relinquish my mandate on Friday 9th. [[Keeping a document in height]] This has already arrived, and so all this is no longer a topic. I'll just give it to you later. Look, that's the difference: I have said that I will relinquish my mandate before the election – and I will. This is the difference between me and Mr Strache, who now repeatedly goes to the election as a top candidate and does not want to leave the National Council at all, not a piece. I just think it's important to create credibility in politics. But again, I'm infinitely sorry I confused you. There's nothing else that's bothering me. You're already confused enough. [[Abg. New builder: Talk about education once!]] I thank the Greens for having the opportunity to speak here again. I'm very glad. [[Abg. Walser: Enjoy! Extra because of you!]] However, I am not going to give a say in farewell, but rather to speak on the subject because it is very important to me, and I am therefore very grateful that I have the opportunity to speak here again on the subject of education. First of all, I would like to draw up an aspect that is very important to me – as you know, I have put a lot of proposals in this area – which is the area of elementary education, of kindergartens. These are the first educational institution for us, and we have repeatedly pointed this out. We have also pointed out that, especially after the necessary quantitative expansion, we must also make a truly urgent qualitative boost in this area in order to achieve what is actually the goal of understanding this as the first educational institution. There are now also proposals from the social partners who have been on the table for a short time. In fact, it is an unusual situation that the social partners, and indeed all the social partners, from IV to the trade union, have put on the table a 10-point programme on which one has agreed, 10 points, whose implementation would be urgently necessary. – It’s just not that new. Too many areas, including the Greens, we have made proposals over and over again. I now take a few things out, for example, federal competence for elementary education. It starts once. Secondly, with a uniform quality framework. I also think that is very important, because no one can understand why there is a distinction between a child in the kindergarten in Lower Austria and a child in the kindergarten in Vienna. There is, of course, also the need for a real skill boost in training. And what was also addressed – it is not up to me to criticize that – is the need for a much more fluid transition from kindergartens to schools. I think this is actually for the root, the most important root, for the educational success of the children and just want to give you a thought. I have just recently talked to someone, a journalist, who has his children in Lower Austria in a kindergarten and says that it is actually incomprehensible to him that the discussion – very heated, very emotional – is being held on the subject of study fees. He pays per child per month in Lower Austria, I think between 350 and 400 € for the place. And that's the root of what it's all about. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: This is a private kindergarten! That's stupid!]] - Well, that's what he told me. I would therefore like to make the following motion for a resolution along this social security paper: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would also like to talk now about what Mr El Habbassi said. He said it was so disgraceful that this issue of election is being fought. – In the alternation of a quote: Electoral campaign is obviously always the others. Your colleague Jank has also made elections here with Taferln for Vienna. But yes! – Allow You also told me to say again: I consider the jubile choirs to be far-reaching in terms of education policy in Vienna. In fact, we have a situation where one fifth of the students who leave compulsory school cannot read meaningfully, and among them are very many children from socially disadvantaged families and also very many children from families with migrant backgrounds. That means: We're not good enough! To lean back here and say: But we're so great anyway!, I think I'm a big problem. And towards greens: Julian Schmid, we also wish ourselves more teachers for Vienna, especially for the acquisition of language. We also wish ourselves a social worker or a social worker fixed at every compulsory school. However, we have also put the proposal on the table, how we can finance it, and I do not think that it is insignificant in these times. One last point: I would be very pleased if it would be long, even in Vienna a model region, to set up a real model region autonomous school in the next few years. I think that would be good. This is the crucial question of the future: not whether the gymnasium is preserved in the long form, but whether we are able to take each child with us in compulsory schools and in kindergartens. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00094_d8e5587	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Meinl-Reisinger is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00094_d8e5724	The next item is Mrs Ing. Dietrich. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00094_d8e5746	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we have a special meeting of the Greens on education. The Greens probably want to bring more light into education, into education reform and make their consent dependent on it. But I say to you, ladies and gentlemen, every one of you here in this area is assuming that you will agree because you have previously agreed to everything, whether it be the removal of banking secrecy or the right to use it, whether it be the requirement to register. [[Abg. Walser: Because we've gotten through! It's easy!]] Everything you've taken just to get the power. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] And, Mr Walser, if you talk about this educational reform as a secret project. That's what it's going to do. Don't stop you from simply agreeing. We know it and we see it after the Upper Austria election: It doesn't matter if it didn't go out as desired. If it doesn't go out for two, it'll go out too three, basically, you're in power. [[Abg. Walser: It won't happen to you anymore!]] I would like an opposition party to really address things clearly – regardless of whether one has the power to sit in the government at the end – and to work politically for the citizen. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in this educational debate, we must note that Austria has one of the most expensive systems. We spend most money on education, calculated per capita/school. If we give so much money in an area, you could expect ourselves to be a citizen that we are the best to be a pioneer. But no! The opposite is the case. Year after year, the PISA study shows us how we fall off in international comparison, and not because our students are not as talented as the students of other countries, no, but because the education system is missing because this education policy is exclusively party-political. Ladies and gentlemen, when we look at the naked figures – that one fifth of the school leavers are secondary illiterates that every tenth child is already going to a private school – I will tell you: It's a help cry from the parents. The parents are willing to spend hundreds of euros a month so that their children have a proper schooling because of the failure of this state system. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] Another factor is the remedial costs that explode. The parents are required with such a school system and partly overshadowed. I would like to address one point that really concerns everyone: integration, because it concerns not only the urban area, but sometimes rural areas as well. Education expert Heidi Schrodt says with regard to integration that we in Austria have huge shortcomings in the education system. Let's look more closely! In the special schools, 27.5 percent of pupils are children with migration backgrounds. Why is that so? – This is because the children have too little knowledge of German and you go the easy way: They're just being pushed off to special school. Highly talented children are often transferred to special school. The second factor: There are already schools where there is a five-year ban. [[Abg. Steinhauser: In private schools!]] The director is issuing the foreign exchange, and no one is allowed to receive a “not enough” so that the students can be spent as soon as possible. At the end of the day, they can neither read nor write nor count. Ladies and gentlemen, these children are deprived of any future. But there are also schools where it works very well. I call the school in St. Peter in Klagenfurt, which is exemplary because it has a high proportion of children with a migrant background and these children are taught in their mother tongue. You have two or three hours a week in which they are taught in their mother tongue because – and now you listen carefully! – the children in the second and third generations cannot speak German or their mother tongues, but they can speak a mixed mesh. You think about it again and teach it almost her mother tongue so that language competence is increased and they can also better understand the German language through this rail. If you look at the framework of this school in Klagenfurt: You are a shame to the Austrian school system! In this school it is so that it passes through the windows that the ceiling falls half down, that the rollers are stuck, that the sanitary facilities are so desolat that facal water regularly floods the corridors because there is no money there. [[Call SPÖ and Greens: Where? Where? Where's the school?]] That's what I'm telling you: There should be no such thing in Austria! This is St. Peter, Klagenfurt. [[Abg. Walser: Where is the school? Fäkalwasser on the gang?]] [[Abg. Walser: We immediately show that if it corresponds to the truth!]] There's a newspaper report on where the director shows exactly these shortcomings. [[Abg. Walser: The school must be closed! Tell me where she is!]] I said it – please listen! –: St. Peter, Klagenfurt, a New Secondary School, the NMS 6 middle school, where more than 150 students enter every day, faeces are regularly on the hall. [[Abg. Walser: And faecal water is on the corridor?]] [[Abg. Roller: Regular?]] – That's what this newspaper article says. Ladies and gentlemen! The educational reform is urgently necessary, and I would like to see all concerned really involved that the student union, as a representative of the pupils, is also involved. Because there are at least 1.1 million students who have to endure this educational reform that has to live with the result. In this sense, I would like the school to be depoliticized in the future, that the educational reform really takes place in the sense of the students, parents and teachers, because the children are the future of our state. And if we don't look at this future, then society as a whole has no future.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00094_d8e5909	Next, Mrs Mag. I'm talking about Jarmer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00094_d8e5931	Mr National Council President! High house! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear viewers and spectators Get in there! We have heard a lot about the subject, and very often it is about segregation, sorting, grouping. That, I think, is no longer appropriate in our time. The barriers in the heads belong removed. Inclusion means living differently. We urgently need a change of perspective. You know the concept of integration. Integration means a child has to adapt to the system. If perhaps a disabled child is in class, it will receive four hours of special funding – or the child will not get anything if it is not reported. If the child can go to school in inclusion, then it will look like: What is the need? What equipment is needed? A child needs sign language promotion, another child needs a ramp and so on. That's the future! The attitude is often such that – how should I say? – Wohlfahrt is the topic and one looks at: The poor disabled child, what does it need? No, a deaf child doesn't need to go to music school, a wheelchair driver doesn't need any sports lessons. – One should find another access to self-determined life, other subjects, other options that are appropriate so that one can have opportunities and later choose an interesting profession. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is also very important that you do not see the disabled child as an object! The disability is not what you should focus on. One should not look at disability, but at man, at the child, at his strengths, at his abilities: Where can you promote something? Where is there interest? – The strengths belong promoted! Another problem is that people with disabilities are often seen as patients. Many teachers say: No, we can't, we're overwhelmed, and they often reject disabled children. A child with Down syndrome has no way to be admitted in a private school. – Every child should be seen as a citizen. Inclusion and democracy for all! You have to look at: What need do you have? Do You Need a Support Teacher? Do you need an assistant? Does it need physiotherapy? Does it need a special subject? If two children have a certain disability, of course it is better. If only one child is disabled in a class, it feels very isolated and thinks – I have heard it often – that I will probably die after school, because grown-up disabled people have never seen this child. It is so urgent that you create models! I know there are deaf inventors. If one tells the children in school, a motivation arises, an interest arises. A role model is absolutely necessary. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Later on in the labour market, this is only beneficial for everyone. You can see positive models. You don't have to take the poor disabled child to the sheltered workshop. No, a positive example is necessary! Hearing and disabled children are not a problem! No, it's a right to a common life! I think the time is just ripe for us to stop looking at the segregation, not say, that belongs to the primary school and that belongs to the special school. No, the time is ripe for a common life! Inclusion means being different in the Community. And this task lies with the Ministry. We have made a brochure on inclusion, inclusion in education. I can highly recommend it, and I'd be glad if you read it through. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00094_d8e6015	Mrs Lueger's next speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00094_d8e6036	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Children are in the foreground of the debate on education – I think Mrs Jarmer, we are certainly in agreement. And we have a common goal, and the common goal is common school. And common school means not to discuss who is not admitted, but the common school is for all children. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Nevertheless, I am convinced that education does not start in kindergarten or start in school, but education already starts in the parents' home. And we've even gone a step back: Unfortunately, it is currently the case that education is inherited. We want to get away from that. It is therefore very simple and important that this committee of experts now works and that the kindergarten is the first non-domestic educational institution. And I am already very happy, because it has already become quite clear in the speeches that the kindergarten is not a care facility, but an educational institution. We discussed in the last Family Committee that the old 15a agreement for the mandatory last kindergarten year has expired and unfortunately there is no more money to finance the second compulsory kindergarten year. Therefore, there are now the first intermediate steps in the form of saying that there is advice, a mandatory counseling of parents. – Yes, everything is too slow for me, yes, we would all like it to be faster, but nevertheless that is the agreement that the federal states have reached in their 15a agreement and which they can also fulfil. And it has no purpose for the federal states to agree to a paper if they are certain from home that they cannot fulfill it. If I then take the education of the educators myself: Yes, we all want the educators in the elementary pedagogical area, speaking in the kindergarten area, very, very well trained. Those who now serve are also very well-trained, but one tries to raise it to the tertiary level, also Europeanally. [[Abg. Walser: European it is enforced, only in Austria!]] – Not yet in Malta. [[Abg. Walser: Malta picked it up two years ago!]] Okay, well, but nevertheless, we're on our way: There is a technical college in Vienna, where already leaders or kindergartens, kindergarten teachers who work at the city of Vienna have the opportunity to make tertiary training for their managerial function, in which it is not only about dealing with children, but also about organizational things. That's good, important and right. And we know that there is a chair in Innsbruck and that there should be a chair in Graz for this training. But we also know quite well that these are not yet so far, because we do not yet have the teachers to train the educators. We are very far in Vienna with the expansion of kindergartens for zero to six years. At the time, Vienna was pre-prayed. The kindergarten in Vienna is free of charge for zero to six years old, which should also be Austria's goal. We have a very high degree of supply, we also put in a lot of money so that we now have 81 300 kindergartens in Vienna, with 24 400 belonging to the zero to three-year-old. Language stands in the kindergarten are a legitimate requirement, and these are already carried out by kindergartens. If you, Mrs Belakovich, say: The FPÖ has agreed to the integration measures, then I would like to teach you a better one. In Vienna, over the last five years, there have been 49 proposals for integration measures in the Vienna municipal council. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: This is about club promotions!]] Simply broke down, language courses for children, language courses for young people, language courses for parents. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: No, club promotions!]] [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: No, these are club promotions!]] On the other hand, the FPÖ has voted 49 times in the Vienna municipal council. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: These are all 49 club promotions!]] And now don't explain that you are for integration! That's just not your goal! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call at the SPÖ:Hear, hear!]] The school is not only a place of knowledge transfer, the school is quite simply a place where the habitat of man is to be formed, also in relation to gender equality, and where it simply counts the individual and his performance that it supplies there. I spoke to the director of the Hertha-Firnberg school. She says: Children come to us and they go as personalities. That's the right way to move. That is why it is now so important to wait for the Committee of Experts to come up with all their results and then finally make the big reform. There is no question that there is always new progress made by some federal states. I'm a Viennese, and this with passion, and believe me: We already have a school of the future, and that is for me the Wiener Campus model. I just want to talk about Floridsdorf and the Danube City. In Floridsdorf and the Danube City we have two campus models in operation, and there are four more in planning. This is the barrier we want, namely that the transitions from kindergarten to school and ultimately from school to professional life are well driven off. This must be the goal to enable the children to have a good future.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00094_d8e6165	Next, Mr. Dr. Däderle will speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00094_d8e6186	Mr President. Appreciate members of the government! High house! Some of the issues in this debate are such that one can agree. For example, I would like to thank you, Mrs Ministra, for the reference to the new teacher education which is now under way, which also concerns elementary education and, for example, is now providing a much longer and more scientifically-instructed training period for the folk school, so that this very difficult area, where teachers have to face new challenges, is certainly particularly encouraging. This new education will also strengthen the overall picture of teachers, I believe, and it will perhaps reduce the number of teachers and teachers who have not stopped in front of the mayor of Vienna. I also think it is right, Mrs Grossmann, for you to point out that we should not be talking about education in Bausch and Bogen. Austrian education is still good. It is particularly good, for example, for our vocational training, which tells me international corporations and confirming annual apprenticeship competitions in which we are among the best in the world. But this also leads me to criticise this debate. Above all, I find the question of the transition from the folk school to the New Middle School or to the gymnasium extremely dramatic. If I hear such expressions as we played here “Schicksal”, Mrs. Kuntzl, or if we would “press on the forehead ” to the children a “sign, ” Mrs. Glavischnig, or, that would be a “stigmatization”, Mr. Strollz, then I find it excessive for two reasons. First: Less than 30 percent of our maturants come from the AHS long form. So this shows that a new secondary school with secondary schools must not at all be a dead end. Secondly, it is not a dead end because it can lead to vocational training. And here to speak of “stigmatization” or “sichsal”, when people go to vocational training and not to a matura class or to the university, I feel like a very bad discrimination of these people. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Stroll.]] This is really unbearable and one-sided assessment. Mr Strolz, I am pleased to congratulate you on this, and I would like to tell you in return: I have also found the statements made by Mr Schmid very displaced. If he makes historical excursions, then he should learn history before. Because if he here claims that he is in the 18th century. At the end of the century, the educational reforms aimed at equality and continuous work are the opposite of what is happening. The educational reforms of a herbart, a pestalozzi, a Humboldt or a veilmaker at the time focused precisely on the individual and the promotion of the individual, namely the broadest possible promotion of the individual. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And that's still the core of today's gymnasium, and that's why this gymnasium is valued and asked, and that's why you have to defend it. But I am with you, Mr Strolz! You should find a way between the seemingly irreconcilable camps and see where you can meet. It cannot be that we stand in this front position for over 100 years – and we stand that way. And that's why I like the model regions and the experiments in the west of Austria. There must be a way out of this confrontation. However, this path cannot end with the abolition of this so popular and so successful school form, but it must provide a way that takes both concerns into account. I hope that this will also be a change on 17 November. November.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00094_d8e6237	The next speaker was Mrs Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00094_d8e6259	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! As always in such debates, the Greens have complained of a reformist stand and have actually meant that they do not yet have their concepts – thank God! - have been going through. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Call the FPÖ:Genau!]] We do not see a stable of reform, but we see something quite different, namely that two completely different concepts, not to say in some respects, strongly conflict with one another. This is the case on the one hand on the structural issue. I repeat, because one cannot remove enough, what my previous speakers and also the former Minister of Science have emphasized: Every human being is equal to dignity and right, and he is completely different, pleased, in his inclinations and talents. [[Abg. Walser: There are two types, according to which: the classic primary student and the classic...!]] And this principle simply makes a diverse school life more just than an overall school. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I have, for example, as you know, some children, and some were in high school and so came up to an economic study, and the others were in the AHS long-term form. So it worked really well with me. There were not two types or classes, there was also no stigmatization, which by the way is also socially worrying that: You think only the graduates of a university are not stigmatized, especially with you very amazing. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The second important concern is the school of the whole day, and this complements perfectly with your women's and family policies, which are taken together, both parents are fully available to the labour market, and the state takes over child rearing. That's what I'm Your concept, and then, of course, these institutions need it. On the other hand, we believe that the family has a right to education, and that is why there must be freedom of choice over the duration of attendance at school. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] However, we are not only of different opinion in these questions, but also in questions of didactics, which means: What should students learn and for what reason? – The stimuli has already fallen: untwirl. We have to unravel, we have to go away from sending learning, from questionable knowledge stocks, practice has become completely impossible at all. What we need is competence. And what does that mean now? – competence means, for example, that I do not learn vocabulary, but rather I acquire the competence to look up in the dictionary and do so in exams. And if I'm in a school that's also up to date on the Internet, I'll do that with the Internet-based dictionary Leo, and then all teachers will be happy. But so you do not learn a language, so it becomes difficult to capture a text, because you are busy translating it at all, and at least you can't do any science at this level. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Of course, this competence orientation is also due to your distrust of performance, and you are doing wrong, because the human being is in principle already ready to play as a child. And whoever does not demand man – not overthrew him – makes him smaller than he is. But thirdly: It is therefore not only a question of competence – we have already heard this, Mrs Lueger has said the word – but also of Habitus, of attitudes. Perhaps the honourable Member has become a victim of this recruitment pedagogy. Setting means I'm making modules, I'm doing project teaching. An example of this: The Attic Polis is uninteresting, the transition from tyranny to democracy does not matter. I deal with the topic under the title of gender equality, and then I say, for example, that in the Attic Polis, sexual justice was not as pronounced as with us now. Then I have the necessary distance and then I have acquired the right habitat, because otherwise it could not be that this historical grand achievement of Austria, as the second state in the world, is described as a general school obligation – of course, against the resistance of many families that the children wanted as workers – for girls and boys in the same way at the same time. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We see that Austria has an absolutely suitable school system from the outset. It is differentiated and diverse; yet – I am still stressing – one can perform such good achievements in public schools and acquire skills and skills that one can also get to the top of science. On this basis, we should develop the system carefully and carefully. Assembling it together and completely changing it doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00094_d8e6348	Next, Mr Magistrate. Loacker's word. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00094_d8e6369	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! High house! Appreciate viewers at the gallery! On the question of stigmatization I would like to submit to Professor Däderle: It is about how Peers behave with each other and how among the Peers stigmatizations arise. It was not at any time related to the teachers, and I believe that with some good will one could have heard this message too. I would like to make another link between education and the labour market. We know that it is becoming increasingly difficult for the young people in Austria to find a suitable job after the end of the training; but that is no wonder if we find on the other hand what great learning and reading weaknesses fifteen years often have. With this failure in education, the education system lays the foundation for a later career as an auxiliary and an opportunity worker if we do not even make these people permanent customers at the AMS, since we have not trained them well from the outset. 6.5 percent of the unemployed do not have a school degree at all, 40 percent of the unemployed have compulsory schooling and 30 percent of the unemployed have an apprenticeship. It can be seen that further training is a good prophylaxis against later unemployment. We often misappropriate the money, namely repairing the AMS, while the education system over the talents of young people is often in the dark. Here I come to a point where we can use the money even more efficiently if we take a look at the law of teachers' service. In the recent past, we have had some Court of Auditors reports dealing with how many teachers remain in service until the statutory retirement age and how many use any form of early retirement. According to the Court of Auditors' report, there were three-quarters of the teachers, half of the teachers who used a form of hacker pension, and there is an unexplained number of incapacity pensions. However, this should not only be attributed to the fact that, in some cases, it was financially attractive to go earlier; there are quite other factors that play a role. In parallel, during the period 2008 to 2014, the number of days of sick leave among teachers increased, while in the workforce as a whole they fell. It may also be important to point out that our system is increasingly involving teachers, without providing relief on the other side. In schools, more and more special staff often needed for special social tasks. If we see more and more tasks for teachers, then this is also harmful to health, and that is what happens in the future. What it needs in addition for schools – the word school autonomy is now all parties in the mouth – is that it is a human autonomy for the Schools are that they have their own budgets, even outside teachers, and they also need a more flexible teacher service right, because what we have in rigidity today also leads to mental strains. The opportunities for teachers to rise are quite limited, the teacher has to raise their own development potential, because no one else will do so for him, and the transition opportunities to other occupations are small. The individual activities that a teacher needs to implement in daily work are standardised down to the third point of a class hour, and there is nothing that would, for example, correspond to an annual working time account. Teachers do not have adequate jobs in many schools, share desks with other teachers, have no adequate place for their documents – these are working conditions that we would otherwise not consider employees in Austria. In addition, the pay schedules are so rigid that, whether you are diligent or not, you always get the same pay. On the other hand, no one has yet explained to me why a teacher is not announceable as a normal employee in the private sector, as well as why it needs a special protected termination framework. There are a number of rigidities in teacher service law, which are loosened, as in public service several things in service law belong to massively modified. There, too, money is broken down, which we could use more specifically with the young people.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00094_d8e6433	The next item is the speech by Mr Steinbichler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00094_d8e6455	Mr President. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen on the gallery and on the televisions! I have taken with me a poster from Upper Austria, since I think that the outcome of the vote for the Greens who have called for this meeting on education today would certainly be better if you had a friendly – Mr Walser, if you did not listen, then you will not get the solution! – a greeting, a smiling child, because such faces – I'm giving them away again – we don't want to place them in Upper Austria. [[The speaker shows a poster with a tongue-showing girl with the inscription: “Gscheite Bildung wouldn’t be stupid.”]] [[Abg. Walser: Did you not want to be a candidate in Upper Austria?]] [[Other calls from Mr Walser and Mr Pirklhuber]] Unfortunately, Mrs Glawischnig is not there, she also comes from the country, and in the country this is seen a little different, and this also has to do with education. This is the first form of education, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] However, I come to the other points and may join the Minister. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pirklhuber.]] – Mr Pirklhuber, we are in agreement on many issues. The Minister of Education has today – and I fully agree – thanked the parents and teachers, who lay an essential foundation here in Austria in the context of education and joint educational work. In spite of all the criticisms that have been justified, I can also point out that a large number of managers from Austria are internationally active in the various areas, and I can also congratulate them very warmly. Today, a number of times have already been mentioned: Politics out of school! I can only underline that. I was in the District School Council for 20 years. [[Abg. Walser: Jessas! That explains a lot!]] If we had talked as much about teaching in the District School Council as about head crews, where you need a young headmaster or a young headmaster and where you position someone with very simple courses, so that he has the necessary number of objectivity points – that's not the task! And then they said they broke up the county councils. Now they are outposts from the national school councils; nothing has changed except for labels. That's too little! Unfortunately, these institutions are all too often used for the preservation of power and not for education and school. Mrs. Klubobfrau Glawischnig – unfortunately, she is not here now – today, in my opinion, has discriminated against hundreds of thousands of skilled workers, workers and workers with her categorisation second class if someone does not make the gymnasium and attends the primary school. I don't think it's possible to make such a division. [[Abg. Belakovich-Jenewein: Yes, so are they, the Greens!]] This is really an intense insult to the many valuable skilled workers – from the hairdresser to the cook, from the car mechanic to the construction craftsman – who often, alone because they come from the rural area, did not have the opportunity to attend a gymnasium at all. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] The situation is quite different from in urban space, where, of course, the school offer – and not even there, as we heard from the Vienna colleagues – is much closer and much easier to reach than in the country if someone lives somewhere in a remote valley. But that was not the case in my family. We have such a two-class family – supposedly; I don't see it that way, because we all love the same thing – the son did the gymnasium, but the three girls didn't. I am convinced that for the economy, for a functioning state, everyone is equally important, no matter where they work. I've heard it here so often: Education can be used to solve unemployment. – Well, we can try that right now! Ask my son what it changes when he tells the cows in Latin or in Russian – for he has mated in it – that milk is too cheap and he can no longer live on it! [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] We need to be careful not to put a solution into space with forward-looking arguments, which is not a solution at all, because we really have to go to the bottom of the causes. Of course, education is extremely important, but there must also be places for it. How often we experience in the labour market – talk to people from the AMS! – that is said: overqualified, we don’t need, we can’t pay too many courses. And if we don't have a job, we'll send her to re-training. This is not a labour market policy! This has something to do with education, because that is the continuation of schooling. [[Congratulations on the Stronach team.]] One essential point, and I think there should be much more to be done here, is the school libraries, next to the new electronics available today. What does that lead to? – The students have the electronic computer away from the first class, and if they have to calculate 13 times 13 in the head, as we did earlier, then they have to take out the phone and start typing because they do not know it is 169. This is also a very dangerous development, and I think, in addition to electronics, we need good school libraries, we need good books, informative books, not only historical – history is very important – but also those about the future, which also explain what we really do with our daily activity, with our daily economics, with our daily way of thinking. I took with me the book of Kurt Langbein again: ‘Land robbery’. [[The speaker shows a book.]] We don't need the house mind in Billa Sackerl! We need the house mind in the head of the Austrians, the young students, so that they can actually estimate these developments. In the asylum debate, we have the result that one speaks only of refugees on a flat-rate basis and in no way distinguishes whether they are asylum seekers or economic migrants, what they really are. Otherwise comes a society that says: Okay, this is butter. [[The speaker shows a package of margarine.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] That's rainforest, right, it won't be any different! Mr Mayor, that would be a topic for your school; I know you have no, but otherwise it would be a topic for your school: to explain what our daily way of life does. This is the problem of rural areas, which is the problem of rural populations. This lie has so clumsy over the back door, and today everyone believes that's normal. We need a few farmers for posters, and the food comes from international production, unfortunately often from destructive, environmentally destructive and climate-damaging production. That is why I would like to conclude with Peter McDonald of the main association of social security funds, who said he wanted to reduce health costs with movement. I then wrote him a letter and an e-mail. Of course, movement is important, but it is not only about the daily turn hour, but I think we should also explain at school how important a healthy, regional diet for the future of people, for the health of people, for savings in budgets is, because the health costs are enormous. Let's look at the American children who are so overweight by these sugar substitutes, and, and, Do we want this in Austria? That's where it's supposed to be. This is also education, an essential education. We therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] We're asking for support.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00094_d8e6603	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Steinbichler is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00094_d8e6661	Next speaker: Mr Mag. Gerstl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00094_d8e6682	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00094_d8e6704	Mr Steinbichler!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00094_d8e6719	Every human being is something special. Every human being is unique. Every human has his different abilities and abilities. That is why the answer for all children can only be a differentiated school system so that you can live up to everyone, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Walser: Two guys are that!]] Mr Walser! If you tell me now that there are only two types of people, I believe that the majority of the population is quite clear that there are many, much more different people with much more different talents and inclinations. And after that, I think, people should be given quite, quite, quite a lot of opportunities. [[Abg. Walser: AHS and Neue Mittelschule! You're saying that! We want differentiation!]] You, Mr Walser, spoke of courage in Vienna. - Yes, I can only encourage you to do that. It is time, as Julian Schmid said, for we have a change in Vienna, because it must not be allowed to continue in Vienna to have no more freedom of choice, whether we go to a restricted all day school or to an open folk school. It is very important that, too, the rightful and teachers have the opportunity to vote in favour of a restricted all day school or an open all day school. [[Abg. Walser: This is the total school!]] We should leave them the freedom of choice and not take them as you do in Vienna, so that at certain locations there is only a limited school of the whole day, where parents only have the opportunity to pick up their children at 3.30 p.m. and give their children no more leisure time. [[Abg. Matznetter: Not only in Vienna! All over the world!]] This is, unfortunately, the wrong way, Mr Walser. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is very important that we also let children enjoy learning. They like to learn to go, they like to learn to talk, and they like to learn, and this is quite different. Not only knowledge transfer is on, it also encourages social behaviour. It is also about people truly being able to develop their whole personality. And it's also about musical education, it's about craft skills, it's a lot, and it's all about its same value. Therefore, Mrs Kuntzl, it is not important that we offer assistance to everyone, because it is not necessary for everyone to go to the same school, but it should be possible for every child to attend the school that he likes and which, according to his inclinations, is also suitable for the child. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kuntzl.]] I think that we should consciously let the school come to the child and not vice versa, that the child should always have to go to school, with no choice. It is up to those acting in school to see if school is successful. And therefore here from my side another request: Support the teachers! They now also need any support from politics, especially in Vienna. We have a large number of refugee children who also need preparation courses in German. They need the possibility that when they come to school, they can also follow him. Here you can set real examples from Red-Green in Vienna, where you can directly help people – the refugees and the children who are already in the class – so that the achievement they deserve is due to them, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00094_d8e6830	The next item is the speech by Mr Mölzer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00094_d8e6851	Mr President. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! What we see again in this educational debate today is that it is like an egg to the other egg that is laid in this educational debate and always with the same, I say, keywords are decorated – with century reform, well-being and the like – and that there is a beautiful healing world that is supposed to exist outside our schools. But the reality, we all know, looks something different and, of course, that is to be feared, does not change with this educational reform, which is to come. We all know that the announcements that there is more money are nice and nice, but in the hard day of school, some small schools are closed, that hours are being shortened, that – this has just been back in the media – there are fewer ski courses and that there are fewer groups of performance and inclinations in recent years and decades. I don't think it's necessary to talk about a new school project being implemented if you don't get it under control. We already believe that there is a need for action – that is no question at all – but not necessarily under this premise, that we are saying that we are creating a socialist educational utopia with the common school here, but that we believe exists together with the maintenance of the existing system that we have, the differentiated school system. [[Interference of Federal Minister Heinisch-Hosek.]] In addition, I also believe that we have an increased need for action in the primary school, which is already an existing general school or common school. Mr Lugar has already put it to the point today, I believe. What do we want from school? – We want the children to read and write, perhaps also to be able to count. If that doesn't work, we need to change something. In connection with the Education Reform Commission, it has already been said several times that not all stakeholders or all stakeholders have been involved. I can help you, I think, in so far as I am concerned, and I can tell you why this was not the case with the student representatives, for example. That is because we know that these majority of them call for the maintenance of the differentiated school system, and that is probably contrary to what the Minister wants. [[Federal Minister Heinisch-Hosek: I am in constant contact with them!]] – But they are not involved in the reform commission. We all know or fear that this reform will not work well, that through this socialist reform there will be further pressure in schools – we have already discussed this in detail – that – key word central matura – the level will be pushed further down and that our children can no longer be promoted accordingly to their talents. I also fear at this point that it will no longer lead to equal opportunities, but rather to less, because of course those who can afford to flee in private schools. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] As a matter of fact, it is only a two-class society that is being promoted. If I hear the EIA today, it is also mentioned at this point that positive principles are given to the best. I would also like to ask, however, where these principles can then be found in government work. Unfortunately, I do not see this at the moment; only the socialists work around. In this sense, I would like to conclude that the education policy pursued by this government is another area that is considered to be a failure, and another reason is that we finally need new elections to put an end to this mourning game. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00094_d8e6903	Mrs Diesner-Wais is next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00094_d8e6924	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Education and school are the key factors for our youth and for their future. In all discussion – we have heard it today – the child is simply the most important. It must be with all its capabilities and gifts are at the centre, and it does not matter whether the skills are spiritual or manual. If 7 percent of young people drop out of school if there is a 20 percent unemployment rate among school drop-offs, and this is mainly due to the lack of basic knowledge from primary school, then it is necessary that we give our young people stable basic knowledge, because they come with the different conditions. We see that every sixth kindergarten child does not have German as a mother tongue. It is therefore particularly important to teach young people the basic subjects – including meaningful reading. In order to achieve this better, we need to create a better transition between kindergarten and folk school and offer language starting courses for children with non-German mother tongues. The promotion is something particularly important, but not only the promotion, but also the demand, because we want children, who then also put their husbands in their professional life. Therefore, the demand is also necessary. The differentiated school system is also important to me, because in addition to the New Middle School, there must also be the gymnasium, and there is an admission procedure, so that the pressure is removed from the teachers. There should also be all day school forms for our working families, but with freedom of choice, because – that is very important to us – where the child can be at home in the afternoon, there should also be the possibility to do so. I would like to say on double track – responsibility for the federal government and the countries – and the strength of responsibility, that federal competence should be there for the curriculum, the objectives and the standards, and that the countries should be responsible for implementation and implementation, because regionality is, of course, better abolished among the countries. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] - I still have a lot to say. Finally, perhaps the following: The most important thing for the quality is the teachers at the schools, and I really want to thank them for what they do. I think that the educational reform will bring a good result to the well-being of our children.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00094_d8e6978	Next speaker: Mr Doppler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00094_d8e7000	Mr President. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I have listened very closely today, and in fact every party has the statement that education and education are a very important basis for life. The social changes and requirements do not stop even before our education system, just: School bodies such as the College of the Council of State Schools are still occupied by political groups. The school, ladies and gentlemen, must not become the ball of politics. The headmasters should be selected on the basis of their professional competence and not as an extended arm of red, black and white. She would be very important if we were to work green – especially that, has the Minister said today. [[Abg. Brosz: You can still say blue, you're not there anyway!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Deimek.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The primary goal of each school must be to provide students with the best possible knowledge and skills for their further life course, to promote the talented and to support the weaker students in order to achieve a proper school degree. But reality looks completely different. We have already heard today, there are many young people who, after nine compulsory school years, cannot count and read properly, have massive deficits in German and mathematics. That can't be it, ladies and gentlemen! We've heard there's an increasing number of school dropouts. We have more and more who stop their teaching. Teachers are overcrowded with bureaucracy, so that they no longer fulfil their original duties. And, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen, there is also a string concert in the schools – for example in Salzburg – and it means that the savings course is only valid this year. No one believes that. Since the beginning of the school, a total of 320 hours have been deleted, free subjects and deep language and music lessons have been lost in many gymnasias. Where it is saved, it is said, every school can decide for itself – a great achievement, ladies and gentlemen. I say that this is a blow for the entire education system and it is a bad witness to this federal government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00094_d8e7042	The next item is the speech by Mr Schmid. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00094_d8e7064	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! State Secretary and Secretary of State! For education, education and training: For me, party-free education is the basis for any future form of employment – whether as a worker, employee, self-employed or in the public service. To some extent, the formation of our children outside of the parents' home is already starting in the kindergarten and – according to the respective fitness, but also to the respective diligence and will – is moving through the compulsory school to Matura, Mandatory Matura or Factmatura or to a possible degree degree. These Austrian educational structures, with their different educational opportunities adapted to children, have generally enjoyed very high reputation and thus also approval in the population. Now, our Federal Government feels forced to adapt our education system to the so-called international standard and to transform it into a single system. However, this adjustment increasingly means the reconstruction of recognised education systems, such as the still important gymnasium. The mastery of our German mother tongue is the most important basis for an educational success in our home country as well as the basis for a desired service relationship. However, this is not difficult due to a much too high proportion of the German language of powerful students. This boundless increase in non-German-speaking pupils and trainees means that there is a need to impart basic knowledge in separate classes and pre-schools. This has nothing to do with xenophobia, but it is urgently necessary for the educational success of both native and non-German-speaking children and young people. The level of education and the suspension of participation in the PISA test speak a clear language. The current Federal Government, in particular the Federal Ministry, is to be blamed here for failure. Education deficits exist to a large extent especially among those students who are seeking a teaching profession after compulsory school. On the part of the Chamber of Commerce, it is rightly criticised that primary schooling is More often than not, neither master the basic accounting methods nor be able to read and write enough. In addition, the number of school leavers and the number of young people who cancel their teaching or even several teachings with the exception of the examination of their qualifications is increasing dramatically. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] The renaming of primary schools into so-called New Secondary Schools and the partial dismantling of gymnasia is not a successful way to decisively combat our educational emergency. A sensible...
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00094_d8e7106	Ladies and gentlemen, the final sentence, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00094_d8e7121	... is urgently needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00094_d8e7149	Next speaker: Mr Mayer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00094_d8e7170	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I too would like to join the Greens in thanking Mrs Minister and our spokesperson for the fact that this important and current issue is being discussed again today. I mean, one has clearly worked out the differences where one can put on the lever, where something is happening, something is done and what is actually in preparation. What is most annoying to me is that those who wish to allow the least-reforms to be the most critical of the results that have been achieved so far in the education system. Everything's got to stay like that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] One criticizes the system, one criticizes the results. If one says what the possibilities are – supported by a broad public, by really sound results in science, by practitioners, by parents, by studies we have heard – and then it is said that it must not be reform, that everything must remain as it is, that what comes out, but that is too little, that is the dishonesty that I must blame you, in particular, of the blue group. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Go! Go!]] They criticize everything, and every proposal that is made is mistreated from the outset. That's what I have to blame you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The second area is the area of school autonomy. [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: The good is not new and the new is not good!]] I know the minister is very busy fighting for the success of upgrading the school location. Whoever, if not the school location itself, can decide how best to make lunch care, all day care, how best to integrate the children you have into your community. They know how to best promote weaker ones, how to integrate the best clubs into their day care. That can be the school location. For me, a sentence is very important; I don't forget it anymore. I think it was a colleague of the EIA who said the first sentence when we had a Constitutional Subcommittee on School Reform, with which IHS, the Court of Auditors and all were involved. A colleague from the ÖVP asked if Mr President Moser could tell her how many teachers are at our schools, but not in a class, not teach her. The answer was unique from all the control authorities, from all those who were there that they did not know because the countries did not tell them. This is, however, an essential point in every area of school reform: It must no longer be that the one who pays can no longer buy that the one who pays no longer knows where the people he pays are actually employed. This is an important and central requirement in the area of this school autonomy. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, Greens and NEOS.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fekter.]] Not least, it has been said of all the important sentences, namely that the school stands and falls with the teacher, with the teacher's personality. It's out of the question. One of the most important reform measures – Mr Denke has underlined it once again – is the new educational training for all areas – also in the field of early pedagogy, special pedagogy up to the AHS and upper levels. It is very important and I have already been able to refer to representatives of other countries about what we have put on the feet with the new educational reform. To the right to serve: At present, I have a lot of questions about how to get into the new service law, which has been so widely criticised and defied by all, as one can switch in this right of service, because one wants the new service right. Every day I get – I suppose that many of you do – we get emails that someone wants in this new right of service and asks why he or she can't do that. From our point of view, these are very important areas that we should move forward, because the future of our children is actually in the hands of the teachers, and except for a few exceptions – a false word has already been called “wanderpokal” – the best educational work is actually done here. A sentence was granted to me, because a lot of local policy was also said here: I am proud of Vorarlberger and would not let anything come over my homeland; but I tell you, I am just as proud of our federal capital. I not only lead groups of students and adults through Parliament, but also through the city of Vienna. I had none that used as critical terms as water head and many other things. I haven't found anyone who just found a bad word about this city. The same is true of me when I look for care forms in my own home country, for example. I can make a circle with the circle over ten kilometers – that's almost a district outside of us – for parents who want it, I don't find all day care for their children. I don't find them. If single people have to be employed, they do not find all day care. I think it would be worth it without making it bad, to support the Minister's struggle, that in fact all those who need it and need it get such a promotion. No one wants everything to be regulated by the state, but we want to give all children the opportunity they have, namely that every child can take advantage of his chances. These measures, which the government has up to now also planned, all serve exclusively to improve the education system in a sustainable way. Finally, I would like to quote something – and this was also written in the main book – because I always mention the example that education is a huge steamer and that it takes its time to recognize the effects of an educational reform. Finally, perhaps a quote from educational educator Christiane game, which, as I mean, is beyond dispute in our circle: “A major problem in the field of education is that the success of reforms is only late.” This will also be so in these measures, such as new matura, upper-level reform, education reform as a whole. I therefore ask everyone – including those who are constantly criticising results – to agree at last, so that reforms are possible. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00094_d8e7248	Mr Klubobmann Ing. Lugar. The remaining time of your club is 1 minute. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00094_d8e7269	Mr President. High house! Today we have not received the answer to a central question, namely the central question: What can politics do better than everyone on the ground? What is better for the woman minister than the directors, the teachers, the local parents? – This central question was not answered today, because with this central question one could also explain why one does not give autonomy. The only reason why there is no autonomy would be that the woman minister knows better than the one on the ground. [[Interference of Federal Minister Heinisch-Hosek.]] But this is not the case, and that is why we do not want to clarify this question either. In reality, we are only being rocked here. We are being shaken in this debate just as in the asylum question, because there is evidence that Mr Faymann is moving about on his knees in front of Mrs Merkel to ask her to close the borders only after the Vienna election. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] That's the point. This approach has only one purpose, namely to hide the fact that the truth is not revealed here that the government has neither the question of education nor the question of asylum. [[President Head gives the bell sign.]] This is supposed to be hidden here, and this is also to be condemned accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00094_d8e7327	As the last speaker, Mr Rosenkranz spoke for the time being. Rest of the time of your club: 1 minute. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00094_d8e7348	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Mr Mayer said: Let everything go, reforms, everything needs to be new or anything else! – Mr Mayer, even if you re-write the word everywhere, it doesn’t have to be good. I remember the poet's word of the Gotthold Ephraim Lessing, who always said: This play contained a lot of good and new things, only the new is not good and the good is not new. - Quote. In this sense, I can only say: The improvement of the differentiated school system is not in the overall school but in the improved differentiated school system.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00094_d8e7378	Mrs Maurer has now spoken. Rest of the time of your club: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00094_d8e7400	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Dear Members of the Government! Ladies and gentlemen, We have now discussed over the last three and a half hours about the forthcoming educational reform, which the Federal Government is generous for the 17th century. It was announced in November. We have done this in the fear that this reform will suffer a very common fate of Austrian reforms, namely on 17 May. In November, only a few minutes later will be left of the big announcements. We wanted to discuss this topic here in order to bring a little light into the dark, in this – my colleague Walser called it so called – “secret project” educational reform. Mrs. Minister, you and your SPÖ colleague, Mrs. Grossmann, have reported on your last weeks, on your visit to 16 educational institutions, saying that it is not all terrible in this school system. They have reported on innovative school projects, motivated teachers, school campuses that are very great. Ms Grossmann stressed that there are very many great projects in Vienna, that there are very few problems and so on. Yes, you're right, it's not all terrible about this school system, there are good schools, and there are also good educational institutions here. However, it is terrible that many children do not have the opportunity to go to an innovative campus school in the Sonnwendviertel, but it is still in the very first line depending on which educational level parents have, whether they are poor or rich, whether they are growing up in the countryside or in the city. For all these reasons we want the common school, we want to abolish the sorting of ten years. That also corresponds to your own argument, which is the reason why we are conducting this discussion at all, so not everything can be as wonderful as you are trying to explain this to us. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] To start this joint school, the ÖVP behaves according to its classic pattern; we have received it again today very beautifully presented: While the concrete in the west of this country slowly begins to crumble, while in Vorarlberg and Tyrol there a very clear willingness to take an important step in this right direction is recognized by colleagues Jank and colleague El Habbassi. While the concrete is crumbling in the west, it seems to be cemented again in Vienna to the neck, to the complete immutability. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] We have the same picture as ever: The SPÖ beautifies the situation while the ÖVP emphasizes and blocks. Today we have asked these 50 questions in order to bring light into the dark and find out what we are going to do on the 17th. November, your own set deadline, expected; and most of our questions, Mrs. Minister, have answered you very vaguely as so often. However, a question has not been answered vaguely, but you have given us a clear answer, and this is very pleasing, one has to say. Our question is what the calculations of the Education Reform Commission look like in the question: If the transition of the school administration is more expensive or not?, you have clearly answered with Yes. You said there were considerable costs. This means that the reform of the school administration, the relocation of the Austrian education system is dead. Everything else would be absurd. I think that is a very, very important point in this reply. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Walter Rosenkranz: Maybe it's not true!]] The ÖVP heads of state have lost this battle, quite clearly. ==References====External links== It is to be feared: [[President Head gives the bell sign]] The question is, there is a red-black exchange, no changeover, but also no total school. Mr Häupl said in a quote that Mr Walser had put before him that he thought the gymnasium might remain. We will continue to look very closely at it and focus on the fact that it will not only be a mini-reform, and then you will measure the results. ==References== It's coming very fast on November.
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00094_d8e7480	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We come to the votes. First of all, the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mr Dr. Rosary, ladies and gentlemen, on the preservation and extension of the most successful form of school: the gymnasium. Whoever speaks for it, please give a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Rosenkranz, colleagues on ‘German classes’ for students without sufficient knowledge of the language of teaching. Who's calling for it? – This is the minority. The application is rejected. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Who's calling for it? – This is the minority. The application is rejected. vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Strolz, colleagues, on the implementation of education reform measures with the broadest support from civil society. Who's calling for it? – That's the minority. This request is also rejected. Debates of the European Parliament Meinl-Reisinger and colleagues on the implementation of the 10-point programme of social partners and of the Industrial Union for Elementary Education. Who's for it? – This is the minority. This request is also rejected. Debates of the European Parliament Lugar, colleagues on ‘School autonomy for Austria’. Who is in favour of this proposal? – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2015-10-06-025-XXV-NRSITZ-00094_d8e7597	I am still announcing that, at today's meeting, the self-employed have received requests from 1351/A(E) to 1364/A(E). Question No 6657/J to 6706/J has also been received. The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations will be convened at 15.39 a.m., immediately following this meeting. This meeting is closed.
